******
26 November 2003
10
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
27 August 2002
10

Can Hollywood, usually creating things for entertainment purposes only,
create art?  To create something of this nature, a director must approach
it
in a most meticulous manner, due to the delicacy of the process.  Such a
daunting task requires an extremely capable artist with an undeniable
managerial capacity and an acutely developed awareness of each element of
art in their films, the most prominent; music, visuals, script, and acting.
These elements, each equally important, must succeed independently, yet
still form a harmonious union, because this mixture determines the fate of
the artist's opus.  Though already well known amongst his colleagues for
his
notable skills at writing and directing, Frank Darabont emerges with his
feature film directorial debut, The Shawshank Redemption.  Proving himself
already a master of the craft, Darabont managed to create one of the most
recognizable independent releases in the history of Hollywood.  The
Shawshank Redemption defines a genre, defies the odds, compels the
emotions,
and brings an era of artistically influential films back to
Hollywood.The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized
by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for the murder of his
wife and her lover.  After a quick conviction, Andy finds himself serving a
life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope of parole.  He exists in
this prison only in appearance, keeping his mind free from the drab walls
around him.  His ability to do this results in the gaining of respect from
his fellow inmates, but most of all from Ellis Redding.  Ellis, commonly
referred to as Red, finds gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within
the drab walls of Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare
to
the confines of prison.  Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope
causes
Red to take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him.  Andy
proves
to Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.By creating the film's firm foundation, the meticulously chiseled
screenplay
paved the way for this film's success.  Frank Darabont outdoes himself with
the phenomenal adaptation of Stephen King's equally noteworthy novella,
Rita
Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption.  In this novella, King demonstrates that
he can break free from the genre he dominates and still create a marvelous
piece of modern literature.  Though the film mirrors the novella in many
ways, Darabont illustrates a focused objective of improving upon the areas
where the novella came up short, resulting in one of the best book to film
transitions ever.While maintaining some of the poetic and moving dialogue of the novella,
Darabont also proves that a film's score can generate a great deal of
emotional response from its audience, as dialogue does.  He employs the
cunning Thomas Newman, son of the legendary Hollywood composer, Alfred
Newman.  Darabont shows recognition for the film's needs by employing
Newman, who makes the gentle piano chords whisper softly to the viewer, as
if a part of the scripted dialogue.  Newman lends himself to individualism
and tends to drive more towards the unique in the realm of score
composition.  His effort in Shawshank did not go unnoticed, as his score
received an Oscar nomination in 1995.  While unique and independent,
Newman's score never once intrudes on your concentration or distracts from
the film.With work from vast array of talented scene designers, costume designers,
composers, cinematographers, and various other Hollywood artists, the cast
of The Shawshank Redemption had a strong foundation to work with.  The
marvelous cast of this film will dazzle you with some of the most
convincing
performances you will witness in a film.  While both Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman shine as Andy and Red, respectively, the true spectacle of acting
lies within the plethora of amazing supporting actors who easily disappear
into their roles.  Most noticeable of these, the veteran film star James
Whitmore, who portrays the elderly Brooks Hatlen.  Brooks, a man
incarcerated for an unmentioned crime for so long that he finds himself
attached to the Shawshank and the daily life he has lead.  Each of these
actors show a true dedication to their art, and a focused purpose in their
motivations, creating a convincing setting that never once caters to
anything unbelievable.With all of the aesthetic touches and attention to cinematic detail, the
most beautiful part of the film lies within its thematic material, such as
its focus on the human desires for the most abstract concepts, like hope
and
freedom.  These themes, which concern things the human spirit undoubtedly
yearns for, seem so intricately woven into the plot that it easily draws
its
audience in to its story.  Though full of hardened criminals, your heart
will go out to these men as they display the most basic of human emotions,
and deliver some of the most quotable lines in a film to date.  Like a
great
novel, this film manages to succeed at greater things than simply
entertaining an audience.  Darabont tells his story most masterfully,
illustrating principles and inspiring his audience to think.  He leaves us
a
poignant film with a powerful message of hope, and redemption, something we
all seek.This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared it
long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability.  Darabont shows us
that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and production facilities.
These artists show their capability to produce art; real art that inspires
you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you.  The
Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed breath of fresh air for anyone
who
realizes the capability of film.  It proves that masters of the craft still
live on this earth, and still bless us with timeless masterpieces that we
will never forget.


******
10 February 2006
10
In its Oscar year, Shawshank Redemption (written and directed by Frank
Darabont, after the novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption,
by Stephen King) was nominated for seven Academy Awards, and walked
away with zero. Best Picture went to Forrest Gump, while Shawshank and
Pulp Fiction were "just happy to be nominated." Of course hindsight is
20/20, but while history looks back on Gump as a good film, Pulp and
Redemption are remembered as some of the all-time best. Pulp, however,
was a success from the word "go," making a huge splash at Cannes and
making its writer-director an American master after only two films. For
Andy Dufresne and Co., success didn't come easy. Fortunately, failure
wasn't a life sentence.After opening on 33 screens with take of $727,327, the $25M film fell
fast from theatres and finished with a mere $28.3M. The reasons for
failure are many. Firstly, the title is a clunker. While iconic to fans
today, in 1994, people knew not and cared not what a 'Shawshank' was.
On the DVD, Tim Robbins laughs recounting fans congratulating him on
"that 'Rickshaw' movie." Marketing-wise, the film's a nightmare, as
'prison drama' is a tough sell to women, and the story of love between
two best friends doesn't spell winner to men. Worst of all, the movie
is slow as molasses. As Desson Thomson writes for the Washington Post,
"it wanders down subplots at every opportunity and ignores an abundance
of narrative exit points before settling on its finale." But it is
these same weaknesses that make the film so strong.Firstly, its setting. The opening aerial shots of the prison are a
total eye-opener. This is an amazing piece of architecture, strong and
Gothic in design. Immediately, the prison becomes a character. It casts
its shadow over most of the film, its tall stone walls stretching above
every shot. It towers over the men it contains, blotting out all
memories of the outside world. Only Andy (Robbins) holds onto hope.
It's in music, it's in the sandy beaches of Zihuatanejo; "In here's
where you need it most," he says. "You need it so you don't forget.
Forget that there are places in the world that aren't made out of
stone. That there's a - there's a - there's something inside that's
yours, that they can't touch." Red (Morgan Freeman) doesn't think much
of Andy at first, picking "that tall glass o' milk with the silver
spoon up his ass" as the first new fish to crack. Andy says not a word,
and losing his bet, Red resents him for it. But over time, as the two
get to know each other, they quickly become the best of friends. This
again, is one of the film's major strengths. Many movies are about
love, many flicks have a side-kick to the hero, but Shawshank is the
only one I can think of that looks honestly at the love between two
best friends. It seems odd that Hollywood would skip this relationship
time and again, when it's a feeling that weighs so much into everyone's
day to day lives. Perhaps it's too sentimental to seem conventional,
but Shawshank's core friendship hits all the right notes, and the film
is much better for it.It's pacing is deliberate as well. As we spend the film watching the
same actors, it is easy to forget that the movie's timeline spans well
over 20 years. Such a huge measure of time would pass slowly in
reality, and would only be amplified in prison. And it's not as if the
film lacks interest in these moments. It still knows where it's going,
it merely intends on taking its sweet time getting there. It pays off
as well, as the tedium of prison life makes the climax that much more
exhilarating. For anyone who sees it, it is a moment never to be
forgotten.With themes of faith and hope, there is a definite religious subtext to
be found here. Quiet, selfless and carefree, Andy is an obvious Christ
figure. Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) is obviously modeled on Richard
Nixon, who, in his day, was as close to a personified Satan as they
come. But if you aren't looking for subtexts, the movie speaks to
anyone in search of hope. It is a compelling drama, and a very moving
film, perfectly written, acted and shot. They just don't come much
better than this.OVERALL SCORE: 9.8/10 = A+ The Shawshank Redemption served as a message
of hope to Hollywood as well. More than any film in memory, it proved
there is life after box office. Besting Forrest and Fiction, it ran
solely on strong word of mouth and became the hottest rented film of
1995. It currently sits at #2 in the IMDb's Top 250 Films, occasionally
swapping spots with The Godfather as the top ranked film of all time --
redemption indeed. If you haven't seen it yet, what the hell are you
waiting for? As Andy says, "It comes down a simple choice, really.
Either get busy living, or get busy dying."

******
3 August 2001
8

I believe that this film is the best story ever told on film, and I'm about
to tell you why.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a city banker, wrongfully convicted of
murdering his wife and her lover. He is sent to Shawshank Prison in 1947
and
receives a double life sentence for the crime. Andy forms an unlikely
friendship with "Red" (Morgan Freeman), the man who knows how to get
things.
Andy faces many trials in prison, but forms an alliance with the wardens
because he is able to use his banking experience to help the corrupt
officials amass personal fortunes. The story unfolds....I was so impressed with how every single subplot was given a great deal of
respect and attention from the director. The acting was world-class. I have
never seen Tim Robbins act as well since, Morgan Freeman maybe (e.g.
Seven).
The twists were unexpected, an although this film had a familiar feel, it
wasn't even slightly pretentious or cliched, it was original. The
cinematography was grand and expressive. It gave a real impression of the
sheer magnitude of this daunting prison.But the one thing which makes THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION stand above all
other
films, is the attention given to the story. The film depends on the story
and the way in which it unravels. It's a powerful, poignant,
thought-provoking, challenging film like no other. If Andy were to comment
on this film, I think he might say: "Get busy watching, or get busy dying."
Take his advice.Thoroughly recommended.

******
25 July 2001
10

One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving story
about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate with
everyone
giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie,
but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison
guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrail of an
elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every actor at
least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As well as a very
surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If
you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll
want to see this one more than once.

******
25 March 1999
10

One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story
about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than a
movie. It tells a lesson about life.
Those are the films people talk about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's
also a story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, 
from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are
majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other.
Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first
moment they make contact with one another. There is also a
wonderful performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.He shines when it is his time to go back into the world,
only
to find that the world grew up so fast he never even got
a chance to blink. Stephen King's story is brought to the
screen with great elegance and excitement. It is an extraordinary motion
that people "will" be talking about in 
50 or 100 years.  

******
13 July 1999
10
Misery and Stand By Me were the best adaptations up until this one, now
you can add Shawshank to that list.This is simply one of the best films ever made and I know I am not the
first to say that and I certainly won't be the last. The standing on
the IMDb is a true barometer of that. #3 as of this date and I'm sure
it could be number 1. So I'll just skip all the normal praise of the
film because we all know how great it is. But let me perhaps add that
what I find so fascinating about Shawshank is that Stephen King wrote
it.King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the
Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his
best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was
brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned
Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes
onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to
understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully. What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it
conveys. It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim
Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he
never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man
again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane,
but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a
different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and
I don't know if there will again.I'm not going to say any more about this film, it has already been
said, but just suffice to say that I am glad that Forrest Gump won best
picture in 94. I would have been equally glad if Pulp Fiction or
Shawshank would have won. It is that good of a movie and one that will
be appreciated for years to come.

******
6 September 2000
10

The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt one of the most brilliant movies
I have ever seen. Similar to The Green Mile in many respects (and better
than it in almost all of them), these two movies have shown us that Stephen
King is a master not only of horror but also of prose that shakes the soul
and moves the heart. The plot is average, but King did great things with it
in his novella that are only furthered by the direction, and the acting is
so top-rate it's almost scary.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrane, wrongly imprisoned for 20 years for the
murder of his wife. The story focuses on Andy's relationship with "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman, in probably his best role) and his attempts to
escape from Shawshank. Bob Gunton is positively evil and frightening as
Warden Norton, and there are great
performances and cameos all around; the most prominent one being Gil Bellows
(late as Billy of Ally McBeal) as Tommy, a fellow inmate of Andy's who
suffers under the iron will of Norton.If you haven't seen this movie, GO AND RENT IT NOW. You will not be
disappointed. It is positively the best movie of the '90's, and one of my
Top 3 of all time. This movie is a spectacle to move the mind, soul, and
heart. 10/10

******
18 February 2008
10
This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick. It has a great and
deep message. This movie has a foundation and just kept on being built
on from their and that foundation is hope.Other than just the message of this movie the acting was phenomenal.
Tim Robbins gave one of the greatest performances ever. He was
inspiring, intelligent and most of all positive. His performance just
made me smile. Robbins plays Andy Dufresne who was wrongfully convicted
of murdering his wife and her lover. He is gets to life sentences but
yet never gives up hope. In he becomes friends with Ellis Boyd "Red"
Redding played by Morgan Freeman. Freeman who gives the finest
performance of his career has unlike Robbins lost hope. He is in deep
regret of the crime that he committed. His way of deflecting the pain
away is by trying to not feel anything at all. With his friendship with
Andy he learns that without our hopes and dreams we have nothing. Andy
also becomes friends with the rest of Red's group. James Whitmore also
gave a great performance as Brooks Halten who gets out of prison parole
but in the words of Red he has been "institutionalized". The directing by Frank Darabont was just magnificent. He kept this
movie at a great steady pace along with the writing and great
cinematography. He portrayed prison life in such a horrifying way, but
not in terms of the physical pain but the stress and pain that wares
mentally on the inmates, some of which deserve a second chance. Whatever you do, don't listen to the people who say this movie is
overrated because this is one of the most inspiring and greatest movies
ever. It has everything you could possibly want.

******
21 November 2005
10
I'm trying to save you money; this is the last film title that you
should consider borrowing. Renting Shawshank will cost you five
bucks... just plunk down the $25 and own the title. You'll wind up
going back to this gem time and time again. This is one of few movies
that are truly timeless. And it's entertaining and moving, no matter
how many times you view it.Forget about what others (including myself) might suggest you'll
discover in "The Shawshank Redemption;" when you watch it, you'll
identify something very personal in your own life with a scene, a
character, or a moment in this uncomplicated movie. When you need hope,
you'll look for Shawshank. When you want to believe in the will of
overcoming even the greatest obstacles, Shawshank will uplift you in
ways that you can't find in movies today. Some liken the film to some kind of spiritual awakening. Of course,
some can go to a church or mosque to find enlightenment and Faith in
humanity, but most places of worship are open only certain days or
times. But when you need affirmation of the lasting bond of friendships
that prevail over the most dire circumstances, Shawshank will give it
to you. It makes grown men (like me) cry, still. I wonder whether
Shawshank was truly meant for viewing in the privacy of the home,
because it is a personal experience that really makes you look inward.
Nominated for seven, this is the best film that never one a single
Oscar. How ironic that an innocent man winds up being surrounded by the
corruption of the legal system. Shawshank itself is similar to the
character of Andy Dufresne. Prejudging this classic film, critics
couldn't get past the title. The public followed suit, initially
dismissing Shawshank, which failed in the box office just like "It's a
Wonderful Life" and "Citizen Kane." It could have just whithered away
on the store shelves, like Andy Dufresne could have in his own cell.
But the characters prevailed, because Andy -- And Shawshank -- stayed
true. Now, these movies are right up there as the most popular films of
all time. Anyone who has yet to watch Shawshank may be so jaded of movies, or the
film's title, or how a 2-1/2- hour movie set inside the walls of a
prison can manage to tap the soul of such a wide range of people.
Shawshank has not one explosion. I wonder if it even has a single
special effect or digitally- enhanced frame. But every aspect of Shawshank fit together. The acting from the top to
the bit part. The musical score. The editing. The photography. The
story, from opening credits to final scene. All involved, including the
town of Mansfield, Ohio (where Shawshank was actually filmed) played
their roles perfectly. Shawshank is a must- see, must- own title.

******
6 February 1999
10

Whenever I talk about this movie with my friends, I do not even refer
to it by title, but rather as "The Movie".  When I say "The Movie", my
friends know exactly what I'm talking about.  In fact the main reason that
me and my friends don't refer to it by title is because this movie is so
great, that we do not feel worthy enough to say it's name in
vain!
I still remember the first time I saw The Shawshank Redemption.  Some
friends of mine and I went to see it at one of those "Budget Theaters" over
the summer of 1995.  None of us really knew anything about the movie, but we
had heard that it was pretty good.  So, not having any real expectations, we
saw it.  When the final credits rolled and the lights came on in the
theater, all of us just sat there with our jaws hanging down on the floor.
I turned my head towards my friend Bob and said "That was the greatest movie
I have ever seen in my entire life!"
There's really no other way I can put it in words.  Every moment of
this movie captivated me and inspired me to believe in the one true thing
in life...... "HOPE".  This movie is sad, uplifting, inspiring, harsh, cold,
funny (at the right times), jaw-dropping, and heart-warming all at the same
time.  I get chills every time I watch this film and this film contains the
greatest ending (which takes place over the last 30 minutes or so)in movie
history!  How it all just "comes together" is so incredible and uplifting.
I should also mention the music in this movie is nearly flawless as well,
and the soundtrack is a "must buy" for any music fan.
The only bad thing about this movie is the fact that I know I will
never see a better movie, no matter how many I may see.  I've seen many
movies over the past few years, many excellent films.  However, every time I
walk out of the theater, I turn to my friend or family member that I saw it
with and I say, "That was a great movie, but it wasn't nearly as good as
'you know what'!"  There have been many movies over the past few years that
thought would really move me or that I might one day call my "favorite of
all time", but they've all fallen far short of "The Shawshank
Redemption".
So, if you have yet to see this movie, please run to the video store
immediately.  You're guaranteed to find it in the "employee picks" section.
And if it isn't in that section, then you should tell the employees there
that there is something seriously wrong with them.  If you have seen this
movie, go see it again.  If you haven't bought your own copy yet, buy one.
In fact buy two, and put one in a fire-proof safe, just in case of an
emergency. :o)
So, you want a 1-10 rating???  I give it a 13!!!!!!

******
24 July 2010
10
The Shawshank Redemption is written and directed by Frank Darabont. It
is an adaptation of the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption. Starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, the film
portrays the story of Andy Dufresne (Robbins), a banker who is
sentenced to two life sentences at Shawshank State Prison for
apparently murdering his wife and her lover. Andy finds it tough going
but finds solace in the friendship he forms with fellow inmate, Ellis
"Red" Redding (Freeman) . While things start to pick up when the warden
finds Andy a prison job more befitting his talents as a banker.
However, the arrival of another inmate is going to vastly change things
for all of them.There was no fanfare or bunting put out for the release of the film
back in 94, with a title that didn't give much inkling to anyone about
what it was about-and with Columbia Pictures unsure how to market it,
Shawshank Redemption barely registered at the box office. However, come
Academy Award time the film received several nominations, and although
it won none, it stirred up interest in the film for its home
entertainment release. The rest, as they say, is history. For the film
finally found an audience that saw the film propelled to almost
mythical proportions as an endearing modern day classic. Something that
has delighted its fans, whilst simultaneously baffling its detractors.
One thing is for sure, tho, is that which ever side of the Shawshank
fence you sit on, the film continues to gather new fans and simply will
never go away.It's possibly the simplicity of it all that sends some haters of the
film into cinematic spasms. The implausible plot and an apparent
sentimental edge that makes a nonsense of prison life, are but two
chief complaints from those that dislike the film with a passion. But
when characters are this richly drawn, and so movingly performed, it
strikes me as churlish to do down a human drama that's dealing in hope,
friendship and faith. The sentimental aspect is indeed there, but that
acts as a counterpoint to the suffering, degradation and shattering of
the soul involving our protagonist. Cosy prison life you say? No
chance. The need for human connection is never more needed than during
incarceration, surely? And given the quite terrific performances of
Robbins (never better) & Freeman (sublimely making it easy), it's the
easiest thing in the world to warm to Andy and Red.Those in support aren't faring too bad either. Bob Gunton is coiled
spring smarm as Warden Norton, James Whitmore is heart achingly great
as the "Birdman Of Shawshank," Clancy Brown is menacing as antagonist
Capt. Byron Hadley, William Sadler amusing as Heywood & Mark Rolston is
impressively vile as Bogs Diamond. Then there's Roger Deakins' lush
cinematography as the camera gracefully glides in and out of the prison
offering almost ethereal hope to our characters (yes, they are ours).
The music pings in conjunction with the emotional flow of the movie
too. Thomas Newman's score is mostly piano based, dovetailing neatly
with Andy's state of mind, while the excellently selected soundtrack
ranges from the likes of Hank Williams to the gorgeous Le Nozze di
Figaro by Mozart.If you love Shawshank then it's a love that lasts a lifetime. Every
viewing brings the same array of
emotions-anger-revilement-happiness-sadness-inspiration and a warmth
that can reduce the most hardened into misty eyed wonderment. Above all
else, tho, Shawshank offers hope; not just for characters in a movie,
but for a better life and a better world for all of us. 10/10

******
20 May 2004
8
At the heart of this extraordinary movie is a brilliant and indelible
performance by Morgan Freeman as Red, the man who knows how to get
things, the "only" guilty man at Shawshank prison. He was nominated by
the Academy for Best Actor in 1995 but didn't win. (Tom Hanks won for
Forrest Gump.) What Freeman does so beautifully is to slightly
underplay the part so that the eternal boredom and cynicism of the
lifer comes through, and yet we can see how very much alive with the
warmth of life the man is despite his confinement. Someday Morgan
Freeman is going to win an Academy Award and it will be in belated
recognition for this performance, which I think was a little too subtle
for some Academy members to fully appreciate at the time.But Freeman is not alone. Tim Robbins plays the hero of the story,
banker Andy Dufresne, who has been falsely convicted of murdering his
wife and her lover. Robbins has a unique quality as an actor in that he
lends ever so slightly a bemused irony to the characters he plays. It
is as though part of him is amused at what he is doing. I believe this
is the best performance of his career, but it might be compared with
his work in The Player (1992), another excellent movie, and in Mystic
River (2003) for which he won an Oscar as Best Supporting Actor.It is said that every good story needs a villain, and in the
Bible-quoting, Bible-thumping, massively hypocritical, sadistic Warden
Samuel Norton, played perfectly by Bob Gunton, we have a doozy. I want
to tell you that Norton is so evil that fundamentalist Christians
actually hate this movie because of how precisely his vile character is
revealed. They also hate the movie because of its depiction of violent,
predatory homosexual behavior (which is the reason the movie is rated
R). On the wall of his office (hiding his safe with its ill-gotten
contents and duplicitous accounts) is a framed plaque of the words "His
judgment cometh and that right soon." The irony of these words as they
apply to the men in the prison and ultimately to the warden himself is
just perfect. You will take delight, I promise.Here is some other information about the movie that may interest you.
As most people know, it was adapted from a novella by Stephen King
entitled "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption." Rita Hayworth
figures in the story because Red procures a poster of her for Andy that
he pins up on the wall of his cell. The poster is a still from the film
Gilda (1946) starring her and Glenn Ford. We see a clip from the black
and white film as the prisoners watch, cheering and hollering when Rita
Hayworth appears. If you haven't seen her, check out that old movie.
She really is gorgeous and a forerunner of Marilyn Monroe, who next
appears on Andy's wall in a still from The Seven Year Itch (1955). It's
the famous shot of her in which her skirt is blown up to reveal her
shapely legs. Following her on Andy's wall (and, by the way, these
pinups figure prominently in the plot) is Rachel Welsh from One Million
Years B.C. (1966). In a simple and effective device these pinups show
us graphically how long Andy and Red have been pining away.Frank Darabont's direction is full of similar devices that clearly and
naturally tell the story. There is Brooks (James Whitmore) who gets out
after fifty years but is so institutionalized that he can't cope with
life on the outside and hangs himself. Playing off of this is Red's
periodic appearance before the parole board where his parole is
summarily REJECTED. Watch how this plays out at the end.The cinematography by Roger Deakins is excellent. The editing superb:
there's not a single dead spot in the whole movie. The difference
between the good guys (Red, Andy, Brooks, etc.) and the bad guys (the
warden, the guards, the "sisters," etc.) is perhaps too starkly drawn,
and perhaps Andy is a bit too heroic and determined beyond what might
be realistic, and perhaps the "redemption" is a bit too miraculous in
how beautifully it works out. But never mind. We love it.All in all this is a great story vividly told that will leave you with
a true sense of redemption in your soul. It is not a chick flick, and
that is an understatement. It is a male bonding movie about friendship
and the strength of character, about going up against what is wrong and
unfair and coming out on top through pure true grit and a little luck.Bottom line: one of the best ever made, currently rated #2 (behind The
Godfather) at the IMDb. Don't miss it.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)

******
1 September 2002
10

**Yes, there are SPOILERS here**This film has had such an emotional impact on me, I find it hard to write
comments on it.  I've read a lot of the previous comments; all those that
gush and eulogise as well as those who think it's over-rated or cliched.
Most have got good points to make, however the thing that I think everyone
is struggling to both explain and come to terms with is just why this film
is *so* loved.  Loved to the extent that for many it is an almost spiritual
experience or for those of a more secular nature like myself, loved as one
of the most devastatingly uplifting things that can happen to you while
watching a film.So I'm not going to review it, I'm just going to struggle in my own way to
explain this film.  It took me a few viewings to get why I connect with it
so deeply, but here goes.Many people in this world are unhappy.  Most people in this world don't
want
to be unhappy.  Lots of people wish, pray and above all hope for that magic
wand to wave and wash them of their fears, losses, angers and pains once
and
for all.  They see lots of other people seemingly in this magical state,
while they suffer.  To borrow the words of another film, they're watching
the bluebirds flying over the rainbow.Many unhappy people have learned that the magic wand doesn't exist.
They're
not destined to join the bluebirds and fairytales don't come true.  It's
not
that no one lives happily ever after, it's just that they're not going to.
They're busy dying.In this film, or as some people have quite correctly said, this fairytale,
magic wands exist.  And that magic wand is Andy Dufrense imitating Houdini.
However this film is not about him.  Neither is it about the prison, the
governor, the guard, the plot, the acting, the cinematography, the script,
the direction or the score.It's about Red.  He is the one who has become institutionally unhappy, he's
not only trapped in a prison, not only has he given up on the idea of ever
leaving, not only does he have no hope, he knows that if the miracle would
ever happen to him, he couldn't cope.  He's safe in his unhappiness and
that
security is what keeps him going.  Hope is, as Red say, dangerous.  The
metaphor for a certain illness here is very clear to me and I know that a
rather large number of people suffer from it.  A large proportion of those
don't understand what's wrong, but they certainly can recognise a fellow
sufferer.  Those who are mercifully untouched by this illness definitely
don't understand what's going on in those who do.  They're too busy
living.The miracle in this film is not only that Red is redeemed but that the
world
outside the prison isn't all warm and sandy and sunny and with excellent
fishing.  Some of it is rocky and uncertain.  Fairytales don't get this
far.
They'd end as Red left the gates of the prison and the credits would say
'and he lived happily ever after'.  This is the only film I can currently
think of where they show how to get to the living happily ever after bit
from your redemption via the rocky and uncertain ground of bagging
groceries
at the local store.  In other words, they're not going to cheat you and
tell
you everything's going to be alright.This is crucial.  For two and half hours, those of us who are quite content
to mooch around our own personal prisons can see an escape route quite
different to Andy's mapped out on the screen.  And it's a real way out.
It's hard and upsetting, but ultimately rewarding.  The high you get from
finding out and knowing that is only comparable diamorphine.The trouble is, if you're already busy living, this film won't mean that
much and you'll see it a little more clearly than those busy dying.  To
those fortunate individuals, watch this film and understand what the rest
of
us are going through.So, yes, this film is a cliched fairytale and maybe as a story it isn't
realistic and at second on the IMDb all time list, it is a bit over-rated.
However if you could have a chart of films listing the number of lives
saved, altered and improved, the Shawshank Redemption would be way out in
front at number one.

******
7 September 2006
10
We have all see movies, comedies, action and dramas. We all liked ones,
hated others, got into some other even and felt like part of it. In
Shawshank Redemption; you start slowly, after a while you get attached,
by the time you reach the middle of the movie you simply totally forget
about anything outside the screen and feel a mixed stream of emotions
going through you head before anything else! then comes a last 20
minutes of heart storming that is surely enough to raise the adrenaline
to extreme levels even in diabetics! I felt warm, strong, happy and all
other emotions one can think of, I felt I was the one who won, who got
out of prison, i was simply fully satisfied.This movie must be used as an Anti-depression by therapists! this movie
proves that Oscars are either money bought gifts! or that who ever in
charge of them are so smart that they couldn't give any Oscar to The
Shawshank Redemption knowing that the movie is on different - much
higher- rating scale than the Oscars.. it's simply over qualified!

******
29 December 2008
10
Probably yes, acting was good, plot brilliant, I mean Stephen King
wrote the book, but it can't match the film. When I sow this movie I
thought "thats it, this is it, best movie ever". Sure you can find
people who didn't like it, and when I ask "why", and try to guess what
then happened? They just confused themselves, they can say reason why
they don't like this movie... When I try to read comments with 1/10
star, I can't find comment with good reasons that could make me
realize, that this movie is a bad movie, If there is no reason, then
this means, that its the best movie ever made!The only reason people
are giving 1 star is that they don't like ratio "9,2", they want to do
more effect by pull this high ratio down, I really hate them :) Sorry
for my bad English language, I live in EUrope, my English teacher is
big cow with no knowledge...

******
2 August 1998
10
This touching and heart warming film is the most perfect celebration of the
human spirit I have seen. Andy Dufresne, wrongly convicted of murdering his
wife and her lover, finds the strength not only to change himself, but to
bring hope to those around him in Shawshank Prison.  This inspiring story
is interwoven with a soundtrack which invokes every emotion, from haunting
and chilling, to stirring and beautiful. When you go to see a movie and it
touches you with its poetry, music, and its atmosphere, and leaves you with
a sense of victorious satisfaction, it is a triumph.  Field of Dreams was
the first movie which invoked these emotions in me.  Shawshank Redemption
is even more powerful for its simplicity.  It doesn't pretend to be clean,
nor could it be called a family movie.  It is brutal and violent at times,
horrifying and sickening at others. However the title says it all.
Redemption is what this story is all about.  And it is not necessarily
redemption for the actual crimes you might have committed, but it is
redemption for the way you have lived your life.  What emerges can only be
called a maginificent piece of art.  This is what movies were meant to be.


******
27 November 2011
10
I first saw this film, like many others, by chance and on DVD. And like
others, I have since watched it over and over again. When I feel sad,
it makes me feel happy, when I need hope, it gives me hope.When I want
to reaffirm my very belief in life, and all it can offer, this film
gives me a new sense of purpose that no other film has ever come close
to doing.It soars above anything any other movie has tried to achieve
in the way it touches on the true virtues of life itself. The portrayal
of friendship, the devastation of loss and the maintaining of hope.
Outstanding performances from the two leads and the most beautiful of
narratives are the tip of the iceberg of why this film is so great. The
cinematography from the very first shots of the prison are stunning and
the accompanying soundtrack add to the haunting atmosphere when we
first venture inside the prison walls. Thank you Mr Darabont, Mr Robins
and Mr Freeman. Thank you to every one else involved. You changed my
life

******
18 June 2011
10
When I saw that the Shawshank Redemption was #1 on the top 250 movies
of all time, I thought "Yea, I could understand that". I don't
necessarily agree that it's absolutely the best, but it is so good that
it makes sense that a forum of popular consensus for film rankings
would rank it at the top.It is the story of Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins and his time at
Shawshank Prison. It is a perspective of what it is to be human and to
have hope for the future even in the face of insurmountable adversity. It's funny, because I don't really think that any one particular thing
stands out as spectacular. The performances are very good, but nothing
really noteworthy. The characters all serve the story beautifully, but
none of them really stand out from the others. Frank Darabont is great,
the shots are exactly what they should be. Almost the entire film is
shot at the prison, adding to the feeling of isolation and routine.And yet, we are captivated from the outset. Morgan Freeman could read a
Sears catalogue and I'd pay to hear it, his narration breathes life
into every scene that it's spoken over. The real beauty of this film is
it's story, mostly about Andy and Red (Robbins and Freeman), but it's
the way that each character contributes symbiotically to the
development of the story that is the absolute mastery. Stephen King's novella "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" was
the short story that was used as the basis for the film and it serves
as evidence that King is not just a master of horror, but a true
literary genius. Sure, he doesn't use as many fifty cent words as
histories other great masters, but does anyone tell as good a story?
King always gives his writing such distinct atmosphere and energy that
you can't help but get swept away. The Shawshank Redemption is no
different. If there is a film by which other films should be judged, this is as
good as it can get. Powerful, engaging, visceral, despairing, a
masterfully woven dialogue of what it means to be human. It's one of
those journeys of the human spirit that just makes you feel happy to be
alive.An amazing story translated beautifully to the screen. A masterpiece,
10/10.

******
24 October 2008
10
A friend of mine listed "The Shawshank Redemption" as one her all time
favorite movies and that brought on my curiosity what Shawshank
Redemption was, I even thought it was a typo. The next day I went out
and brought home the 10 years anniversary DVD without knowing I was
going to spend the most worthwhile 2 and a half hours of my life in
front of the TV (a melodrama doesn't kill, right?)I don't know how to write a good movie review so I guess telling you
what I feel about it may do better. I remembered crying a few times,
being astounded by the plot twist for a moment or two and ending up
sitting alone, inert and all, just because of the once-in-a-lifetime
beauty of Shawshank. Just recall the scene in which Andy locked himself
in the room and turned the music on, all the cons stood paralyzed on
the ground, listening to the magical tune like the song of hope they
had never heard before.Shawshank is more than a feel good movie, it's about life-changing
experiences, about the endless struggle against life's harshness and
unfairness, about true friends who will stand by you forever... The
simple yet hard to convey messages could not be handled more subtly
than this.Shawshank should have won every Oscar for any categories it was
nominated, but it's all about struggling against unfairness, time's
proved its monumental magnitude.Shawshank is a lesson of life that you have to learn in just 150
minutes.

******
12 August 2004
8

In recent years the IMDB top 250 movies has had THE GODFATHER at number 1
while THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION has remained at number 2 . The only exception
was early in 2002 when FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING topped the chart for a couple
of months then dropped down to number 2 for a couple of more months . I`ll
probably make myself very unpopular for saying this but I don`t think
SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION deserves to be so high !!!!!! SPOILERS !!!!!!What I don`t like about it is the amount of cliches . New prisoner arrives
and finds a maggot in his food , prison cliche 37 . New prisoner gives
maggot to old prisoner to feed his pet bird , prison cliche 43 . It`s
revealed at the end that the prisoner who has spent so many years inside is
innocent after all , prison cliche numero uno . Did anyone believe during
any part of this movie that Andy Dufresne was guilty ? Neither did I . Maybe
that`s why I love the American prison series OZ because all the inmates
there are totally guilty . There`s other things wrong with the movie . It`s
about half an hour overlong , and there`s rather unrealistic bits like the
warder having someone killed after finding out Dufresne is probably innocent. Oh and how many prison friendships has there been between a black man and
a white man ? Maybe that last point shouldn`t be taken as a criticism because the
performances of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are very good and make the
movie . Neither of them give a flashy performance ( Again not a criticism )
but both are very subtle in their roles , can you imagine how different this
movie would have been if we`d had Tom Cruise and Denzil Washington as the
stars ? Perhaps because Freeman`s character of Red does seem to have been
written as a white character he`s so good in the role . Am I alone in
thinking Freeman has been the best black actor in Hollywood for the last
decade because he`s more interested in exploring the character instead of
playing someone who`s black ? There`s also some outstanding touches from director Frank Darabont . Witness
the scene early in the film where Andy spends his first night in prison with
the darkness falling upon the prisoners faces . It`s almost like the artwork
of Andy Dogg as the prisoners look out onto the landing as they search for
fresh prey , and there is quite a touching sequence as Red leaves prison out
into the harsh outside world to the strains of Thomas Newman`s
scoreI gave THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION eight out of ten . It is a classic feel good
movie but unfortunately being a cynic I do think it`s slightly overrated by
IMDB voters       

******
4 February 2012
10
I made my account on IMDb Just to Rate this movie. :-) I had heard from
someone that Tim Robins has done a great job in this movie. but when i
started watching this movie, i could not move my ass for 142 Min.its not just about Tim Robins or Morgen Freeman.. its the whole
storyline,dialogs and cinematography which insist you to watch this
whenever you feel low in your life.Movie has some great lines. When Andy(Tim Robins) brake the Jail,
Morgon Freeman says "I have to remind myself that some birds aren't
meant to be caged. Their feathers are just too bright" This movie has
entertainment, Feelings, Action, Drama a little comedy. In short
everything we want to see in a movie.I have seen this movie around 100 times and sure will watch more then
10000 times before i die. 1 of the best movies i have ever seen in my
life.. Wish i could see that sort of movie again in my life

******
1 January 2006
10
Like I did a few years back, you might be hesitating about watching
this film. The title didn't appeal to me, and neither did the subject
matter, so it was only by chance that I started to watch it.I can only say that the film was a revelation for me and has stayed
with me ever since. There are so many dark and hopeless films out there
which, whilst they leave an impression, leave the wrong one i.e that
there is no hope in life. Watch this film and be uplifted and be
encouraged by the message...that there is ALWAYS hope....in any
situation.Please watch this film and the watch it again. It's a great answer to
all the cynicism that is out there.

******
3 July 2010
10
This is the best movie I have ever seen. In a way I feel I am in a
prison of life myself. Restricted to doing certain things. Sometimes I
get frustrated and feel as I should runaway to some place where I could
feel free. I hope and dream for it sometime. This movie just reminds me
of my feelings so much. I love Andy Dufresne most in this movie.
Although critics say Tim Robbins didn't do enough to express the
character but my personal opinion is that he was made for this role.I can go on and say more but I said the most important thing which I
feel whenever I watch it.I am glad to visit IMDb. I never heard of it before. Some 7 years ago I
saw it at no.2 in the rankings and decided to watch it immediately.
Only other movie which even comes close to this is Citizen Kane. But
that is about past and this one is about hope and freedom.I give it 11/10.

******
14 February 2016
10
If you have never seen SHAWSHANK, this review is aimed, primarily, at
you. I suppose there must be some of you out thereWhat is quite
difficult to fathom is that anyone with any REAL interest in Cinema
could have managed to avoid seeing it for the 20+ years since its
release! In a Perfect World, SHAWSHANK is the movie of choice. What a
serendipitous confluence of diverse and inspired elements! It is the
exception that proves the Murphy's Law rule. Just look at the IMDb
breakdown analysis of the voteIn every area of human activity, there
is always that "2%"! SHAWSHANK is no exception. Precisely 2% of voters
rated SHAWSHANK 1 Star! I invite you to check! In our culture there is a recurring undercurrent nightmare scenario of
long-term wrongful imprisonment. Make that a Universal scenario,
perhaps, in ALL cultures. Not a SPOILER here, because this point is
clearly established in the opening 5 minutes. SHAWSHANK is the ultimate
Black/White "BRO-mance"Yet, uniquely, Morgan Freeman's character,
"Red", is anything but the "predestined to an untimely end"
sidekickThe entire film is literally narrated from Red's perspective.
If anything, Red's "Main-Man" prison status gives him a bit of a
dominant role in their relationship. But the interaction of their
characters is clearly that of 2 equals, gradually morphing into one of
lifelong best BUDS! I can't help but wonder if, while cast and crew were in the midst of
making SHAWSHANK, any of them imagined the magnitude of the cinematic
milestone they were involved in! Box Office results are rather jaw-
dropping, but in a negative sense: Opening WeekendA starkly paltry
Position #144 among 1994 releases of just $750K U.S.! Overall 1994 Box
Office, did not even make the Top 50! SHAWSHANK occupied a lackluster
Spot #51, to be exact, with just over $28 Million taken in! My initial interest was piqued by a theatrical trailer, but I had to go
by myselfMy wife, who is a rather avid movie goer, said"H-m-m-m-m, a
prison drama?....What's the Title?" After hearing it, she responded,
"The SHAW-What? No, ThanksI PASS!" Well, needless to say, after a
first viewing, my awe was complete and unmitigated, so I insisted on
dragging her along just days later, for my second viewing. My wife
became an instant SHAWSHANK believer. We both categorize this film in
our lifetime top 5 favorites! Perhaps SHAWSHANK got off to such an
inauspicious Box Office start for the same reasons that almost resulted
in my wife not going to see it in 1994! I could literally write volumes on this movie, but, of course cannot
here! A few more highlights: Interestingly, 7 Oscar Nominations, but
ZER0 wins! Had the amazingly bad luck of having to compete with the
mighty feel-good classic, FORREST GUMP, which steamrolled that year
with 6 Oscars and #1 at the Box Office with $330 Million, about 12X
SHAWSHANK's! Wonder what the Academy's members take on this would be
today? Just look at the 7 categories where it was nominatedEach one is
exquisitely superb! Not a single Golden StatuetteWOW! As far as Suspension of Disbelief is concerned, in the self-contained
and totally insulated prison environment, it isn't much of a stretch to
imagine an Old-Testament thumping warden anointing himself with almost
god-like powers! Stranger things have happened, yes? In one odd twist,
when one thinks of Illegal Immigration, Mexico, or Central America, to
the USA invariably is the route that comes to mindnot the opposite,
right!?!?!? Despite having seen SHAWSHANK at least 15 times, it never ceases to
mesmerize me. My only real critique: I think Andy would have to have
been a magician to do what he did at the end, at least, so
seamlesslyCan't go into any more detail without treading into SPOILER
territory, so you'll just have to figure it out for yourself! SHAWSHANK
is truly a film for the ages! 10*....ENJOY! / DISFRUTELA!!! Any comments, questions or observations, in English or Español, are
most welcome!

******
7 September 2011
10
When I first saw the Shawshank Redemption, I was in a movie theater on
a week night at around 11pm. I had gotten out of work from working the
evening shift. I was tired and just wanted a little amusement. This was
at a time after Shawshank had been released but got little attention. I
had heard some Oscar buzz so my curiosity got the better of me. I half
reluctantly chose to watch it. That night, I was not prepared to be
blown away. I didn't see a movie, I was transported by a story. I was
instantly transcended into realizing why films should be made to begin
with. I wasn't just entertained, I was emotionally moved and
intellectually bamboozled in the most endearing manner. If this film
remains on IMDb's number one spot for a long time to come, It's well
deserves it. To me personally, the Shawshank Redemption is a testament
as to why the 90's were an interesting decade but more than that, why a
film can become an experience and gain instant classic status. There
are two simple rules you should follow prior to watching T S R: one, if
you haven't seen it, don't let any one who HAS seen it tell you
anything about its plot, Don't listen to a word caus they might ruin it
for you. Two, make arrangements not to be interrupted when watching the
film; no phone calls, no door bells, no other plans. Watch it from
beginning to end. You can't over hype this film it's just that good.
What i've written here is just a small fraction of what I can further
express by way of praise for the film. Long live The Shawshank
Redemption on IMDb !

******
30 July 2011
10
Well I guess I'm a little late to the party as far as writing down a
review for this picture. I've seen it a couple of times, but that was
before I became a regular contributor to the IMDb. When I first
discovered this site a few years ago, "The Godfather" was in the Number
#1 spot, and since then the films have traded places for first and
second, with Shawshank maintaining the top spot most of the time. That
puzzled me a bit until I watched it again tonight, and I've come away
from the picture with a new found appreciation. My favorite movies tend
to be the story of underdogs in some way, shape or form, and my
personal Top Ten list includes titles like "On The Waterfront", "To
Kill a Mockingbird" and "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest". I may have
to reconsider that list, an infrequent exercise but one I don't mind
doing every now and then as situations warrant.Overall, the film is darn near perfect. I know it's pretty cliché to
state it that way, but when you analyze the dialog, the characters, the
directing and the tone of the movie, the picture flows flawlessly, even
when it detours into side stories like Brooks Hatlen's release and new
prisoner Tommy's introduction late in the picture. Every set-up, every
nuance has some importance that eventually converges to symbolize
Andy's quest for escape and personal redemption. Remember Brooks
feeding Jake for the first time and eventually setting him free when he
receives his own pardon? How about Andy playing Mozart into the prison
yard while settling back with a smile of contentment on his face. The
story transcends one man's confinement for a crime he didn't commit,
and focuses instead on his reaction to circumstances beyond his
control. Paul Newman showed us a different way to react to those kinds
of conditions in 1967's "Cool Hand Luke", but his method was self
destructive. Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) never loses his ability to
keep his eye on the prize, even if it takes him a couple of decades to
do so.But even more so, you have here the story of Ellis Boyd Redding (Morgan
Freeman), a convict who sees Andy as a person, and over time, an
inspiration to himself and the rest of the prisoners who call him
friend. From Andy, he comes to understand that even as a prisoner, a
man can live life on his own terms if he can keep his mind uncluttered
by thoughts of desperation and hopelessness. Not bad for a convict who
started out believing that 'hope can drive a man insane'.I really can't recommend this picture highly enough, both for it's
masterful story telling and it's technical execution. The actors, even
those portraying the most minor characters were seemingly born for
their roles. They deliver a seamless performance that's virtually
unmatched by most modern films, in a picture that hits all the right
notes with an inspiring message of discipline and perseverance.

******
21 May 2006
9
It's times like these that almost tempt me to grab Jigsaw off the
shelf. It's been almost a month since I saw a film that was flatout
bad; the worst review I've given in weeks was a 6/10 to Flightplan.
This film obviously didn't break my streak.I went into it knowing next to nothing, only that IMDb has it ranked as
the second best movie of all time, that it was based on a story by
Stephen King, and that it took place in a prison. Needless to say, it
blew me away. I wont say a thing about the plot, just so that others
who've yet to see this film have a chance at the same experience as me.
I will say this though: It has some of the most subtle and unexpected
twists you will ever see. One in particular stands out above the rest.Not much can be said about the actors that hasn't been said. Morgan
Freeman gives one of the best performances of his career, and even
though I've only seen 2 or 3 other Tim Robbins movies, I'm sure the
same can be said for him.Though I don't agree with the multitudes of people that call this the
best movie ever made, it was still a very good, very well made, very
entertaining and almost heartbreaking film.9/10

******
20 December 2002
10

At first, before starting the movie, I thought "Sounds like a typical
prison
riot and break-out kind of movie". At the beginning of the movie, my
thoughts was even more convincing. A large prison (Which immediately
reminded me of the movie "The Last Castle" from 2001), housing people of
all
sorts, having it's guards, warden and of course, the inmates. The typical
inmate; Roughneck, hard on the outside, broken on the inside. And they all
claim their innocence, as an internal joke sort of speak.It gets to a point where I started comparing it with others. That proved
wrong in quite a short while, from the point where a prisoner, framed for
murder of his wife and her lover, is being convicted and sentenced to life
in prison. His name was Andy Dufresne. In short terms, a straight-up bank
employee, excellent with numbers and taxes, which he also uses to benefit
within the walls of the prison. His reputation as a numerological genius
spreads out, and soon all kinds of people, inmates and guards, are coming
to
him for financial advice. He builds up a library, he maintains a strict
surface. He has his hobbies, to keep his mind busy (as said in the movie).
He carves chess pieces out of stone, using an axe as the tool. Seemingly,
this is a nice and lucrative hobby, but underneath it all, he has a
secret...The movie keeps the viewer thrilled and excited, because in every minute,
something could happen. The dialog is good, Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman,
both great actors, shows and outstanding play. The crew really did good
work
on the set, the right camera angles, the light, sounds and so on...it was
almost like I could smell the prison!A brilliant movie. Not too short, not too long. It's worth every minute
watching! My highest recommendation for those who like drama, action and
humor.

******
12 April 1999
7

I was a little surprised at first to see this film ranked #1 out of all
possible candidates in the IMDB user ratings. When I thought about it,
though, it made more sense--this is a "Rocky"-type feel-good movie that
doesn't really make you think and reinforces what we would all like to
believe about human nature. Don't get me wrong--it's a fine film (I gave it
a solid 7 out of 10), it's just not, in my view, up there with _Casablanca_
and _The Graduate_.I guess the main problem I have with _Shawshank_ is the nature of the script
and characters. Think about it: is there a single person in the film who
isn't a one-dimensional cardboard cut-out with very simple motivations, or a
Hollywood cliche or stereotype? We have (in no particular order), a corrupt,
bigoted prison warden (who is a religious hypocrite for good measure), a
brutal prison guard, a man who is wrongly accused of murder, an old convict
who knows all the ropes and can't live on the outside, and a convict who is
murdered by the brutal guards. Now where have we seen this stuff before?
Only in a few dozen movies made from the 20s to the 90s. There's really
nothing new here. Probably this comes from the fact that the story is from
Stephen King, who doesn't really do well with complex characters (a problem
I noted as far back as _Carrie_).If you want to see a good prison picture, try _Cool Hand Luke_ (from which
this movie borrows considerably). If you want an escape picture, see either
_The Great Escape_ or _Papillon_, both with Steve McQueen. Or if, by some
chance, you want a crime and punishment movie that really makes you think,
go with the late great Stanley Kubrick's _A Clockwork Orange_.I couldn't stop thinking about the warden: doesn't he have a family? How did
they feel? What are they going to do now? I realize the story is inside the
prison, but I wish the movie had made better use of its characters than
simply as simple-minded symbols of EVIL or VIRTUE.I'm not Mr. Cranky, I did enjoy the movie, but I enjoyed it the same way I
do an Italian dinner at the Olive Garden--a well-constructed genre product
with nothing special to commend it. 

******
3 June 2010
7
I still can't quite get the enormous reputation of this film. I saw it
again last night and instead of clearing up the mystery, the mystery
got thicker. It is enjoyable film with very good performances by Tim
Robbins, Morgan Freeman, James Whitmore etc, but...the most highly
rated film ever? I don't get it. The voice over alone seems to belong
to a so so film. I love Morgan Freeman's voice but he's telling us what
we're seeing. So, the sterling reputation damages the enjoyment of the
film because one is expecting something that never, really, arrives.
The most interesting aspect is Tim Robbins's psychological journey.
Credible or incredible doesn't quite matter, I did go with him without
asking too many questions. Morgan Freeman's humanity is contagious and
inspiring, whether credible or not because I bought it. So, a
masterpiece? No. Good, even very good? Yes.

******
17 June 2006
10
As an omnivorous reader movies are always second to books to me. I
believe....movie can never defeat the book because while reading book
we use our own imagination....and movie narrows down the
imagination.....it only allows us to see how the director has imagined
the book.But Believe me...this is not the case of The Shawshank
Redemption...which I rate as the best movie I have ever seen.For the
first time in history the book(the Stephen King Novella) has been
defeated by its movie version.After watching the movie I was crazy
about reading the book....I thought wow!the movie is so good...how will
be the book!!To tell U frankly,the book is good, but the movie is
best.There are some unforgettable scenes in the movie which were not in
the book.Some examples are: The scene when Andy locks up the guard and
play the opera on the microphone.The narration goes on like.."I didn't
understand a single word that Italian lady was singing...but I tell
U..for that single second every soul in the Shawshank prison felt
free..."The scene just fill my heart with Andy's yearn for freedom...I
was kinda shocked when I didn't find it in the original book version.I can remember another scene.While Andy creates the prison library and
starts listing books sent to prison from charity organizations...a
fellow inmate tries to read a name on the book...Alexandre Dumas as
"Dumb-Ass". Andy says...."its not Dumb-ass...its Dumas..and U may like
the book..The Count of Monty Cristo...its about a jailbreak.And the
category it falls is Fiction" Then Red says.."Why don't we put it on
Educational category?"(Right before Andy listed an engineering handbook
as "Educational" category).As Count of Monticristo is one of my
favorite books, I was hysteric watching this sophisticated joke.This
was also not in the book.This DVD is my favorite gift I give my friends. And after they watch
it....they always thank me . Like many other IMDb friends commenting on
this movie..I would also like to say.."Shawshank Redemption is the best
movie I have ever seen in my life".Thanx to all.

******
13 December 2015
10
Most of the people here is the best movie in the world to join me.
Watching very, very impressed. What it might be called the great
stories of Stephen King anyway. Acting on cues can say is enormous.
There's no posturing. Especially when Andy Dufrense incredible music
that review still stands wandering on everyone's lips. Finale as you
lose yourself in it is a movie you are getting into. Finals if he so
exhilarating you a high-quality music. And finding that deserves really
deserve. I watched this film very young age and it has taught me that
the magic of cinema in a nice way. This film is one of the reasons I
hate the Oscars. Will remain as the best film in more than 10 years, I
believe wholeheartedly sites. Definitely my best movie 10/10.

******
20 May 2014
10
There are only a handful of films that have shaken me to my core and
continued to resonate with me for very long after their first viewing.
I can happily say that "The Shawshank Redemption" has stuck to me since
I finished watching it for the first time, and instantly rocketed up my
Top 10 Films list. Most great films have one or two obvious flaws that can be easily
picked out - not so in "Shawshank", at least not to me. The hefty run
time doesn't put me off because the story and characters are just so
well rounded and so easy to return to time and time again. "Shawshank" is one of those films that I would love to experience for
the first time all over again. The thrill of emotions and the highs and
lows I felt that first time are incomparable to much else. In my opinion, "Forrest Gump" was not as deserving of the Best Picture
Oscar as this. The timeless feel of a story of friendship in a hopeless
place will likely continue to capture generations of people for years
to come.

******
13 September 2013
10
By far the best movie ever...No Doubt this is the best ever movie you will ever see, It is easily
the best movie of my life-time so far.Morgan Free is a legend and Rest of the Crew did a marvellous job as
well. Well written / narrated and directed movie of all times.10 out 10.It has been on number one ranking on IMDb and most of the other movie
rating websites forever now.The best past of the movie is narrated voice by Morgan Freeman.The character Andy Dufrain is a very well composed and the Warden
character has lot of punch into it.Escape from prison was the best it can ever get.Marvellous piece of Art.

******
13 July 2011
10
Maybe I'm writing a review too late for this movie, but I think I must
write something for this.Shawshank Redemption is a truly A Class movie that teaches us many
things like friendship and never gave up your hope. Unlike other users,
I think this movie deserves to be in IMDb Top 250 list. Today, IMDb's
Top 250 List approved and considered by everyone. So, everybody must
see that this movie is in top and must watch it to see why IMDb puts
this movie on top and not Godfather.I really like the role of Red by Morgan Freeman. He really acts like a
experienced jail-mate. Andy Dufresne is okay too.What I really like is that, I really love the end. Maybe this is the
best ending ever. I really like how Red laughs to Andy about pickaxe
and Andy dig 19 years ( WOW !) to made a hole in the wall, how he
escape and become a person he made it up for Warden's dirty job, how
his dreams come true and lastly after 5 years in jail after Andy
escaped, how Red not decided to suicide, decided to follow Andy.Best Movie Ever...10/10

******
30 May 2010
10
There are few movies that capture and identify with the American male
spirit. Shawshank is one of those movies. I don't care what anyone's
take is on prison treatment or whether you are conservative or liberal,
this movie is moving. There are three movies, in my opinion, that every
man, or developing man, should watch: Shawshank Redemption, Dancing
With Wolves, and Brave Heart. Unless you are a total pansy, these are
the movies that will confirm your heterosexuality. Andy Dufrane is the
person in us. Red is the person we want to be. Aside from the being in
prison, the job they have is well apt to the people of this great
nation.

******
2 July 2002
10

An analysis of prison life--and of what hope can be in a prison--Frank
Darabont's first film is one of the best ever.  Well-written and
well-acted,
the story of the development of friendship between Red and Andy is
charming,
endearing, poignant.  Nothing about this movie is overwrought or
extraneous--it's simply extraordinary drama.

******
8 March 2001
8
A great film and one that I shall be adding to my collection at some
point, but #2?One user put it very well when they said that the film's essential
message of 'the human spirit conquering all' is very uplifting an'
everything but sounds too much like a fortune cookie homily.There are several films that deliver the same message just as well if
not better. Jim Sheridan's "In the Name of the Father" springs
immediately to mind. That film has a similar theme to this one
(wrongful imprisonment and the struggle to come to terms with it) but
is a much better film IMO. What's even more heartening is that it's
also true.Like I said, I'm not dissing the film. it IS great. From what I can
remember all the performances are nicely judged (Freeman is excellent,
but then what's new?), the direction is perfect because it's so
unobtrusive to the story, and the film in general is uplifting. I just
think it's nothing particularly new and it has been done better. Maybe
my viewpoint is borne out by the fact that it only became a huge
success on video release?I gave it an 8. To me, this fact proves that I love the film, just not
as much as everybody else seems to!I think this adaptation is on a par with the short story, which was
also excellent. I honestly can't agree with #2 on the top 250 list
though. Is it just an American over-reaction to the movie or is every
other nation as awestruck by it? Please feel free to e-mail me for
discussion on this, or anything else for that matter.#2 of 250? I don't think it would make it into my top 50 films.Ah well, life's all about opinions...

******
23 April 2000
10

Occasionally you go into a cinema and all the films you wanted to see were
full. As you've come this far and you're a bit of a film fan you go to see
a
film you've heard nothing about. I did this 6 years ago, with expectations
low and a boredom threshold to match I sat and waited to be disappointed. 2
hours later I walked out of the cinema a different person, before I had not
been moved by a film, I didn't care if : Indiana Jones made it, Sonny
Corleone got wacked, Fred married Ginger, ET got home. Before, films were
either plot driven or character driven, they were action or comedy, sad or
happy, a few came along that combined a number of facets that I enjoyed,
respected  or challenged how I viewed an issue or a person.Shawshank was different, there were characters I believed, not just one or
two but virtually all. Throughout the first hour I was gripped the full
range of emotions were explored, the second hour building on the characters
was even more powerful, some characters came and went but ultimately this
was a story of 2 people: Red and Andy. I have never seen a film that so
eloquently and beautifully illustrates friendship and hope.This has become the benchmark by which I judge all movies. I am pleased
that
I am not alone in feeling this way. I am glad that it did not win oscars as
I feel individual endorsement is stronger than any vested interest award
ceremony, I relish telling everyone this is my favourite
film.
I have seen it many times and will see it many more.

******
16 June 2012
10
this is the first time i am really wand to write something about thismovie even though i have watched it a hundred times o so,,,, anyone who
really wanna know how a movie should b should watch this one,,,movies are medium which should make us think and this one surely does
about life,,,anyone wanna know the meaning of patience determination this one does
the trick for u,,,, watch it and be inspired,,,thats all i can say,,,it will change the way u think about things around u,,never let it die in u,,,

******
15 June 2012
10
Like a beautifully crafted French wine, this movie keeps getting better
and better with every passing year. Every time I have viewed it over
the past decade (and it must be at least more than 20 times by now), I
have found newer shades, subtler indications, and deeper meanings. And
it has amazed me like very few have.* No overacting * Humour in the drab hopeless environs of Shawshank *
Method in the madness of running the scams from inside * The complete
secrecy maintained for 20 years (not even Red knew!) * The best that a
highly-educated intellectual could do inside such a prison * What a
great actor the Warden turned out to be - totally despicable! * What a
bunch of speakable quotes.. what a bunch! * Totally recommended for any
young person - students especially * HOPE TRULY IS THE BEST OF THINGS -
a message that shines through

******
17 April 2011
10
Despair or determination; crying or fighting; obedience or inner
freedom; resignation or patience; fear or hope...difficult choices in
life make us all more powerful human beings. Experience makes us
richer; hardship makes us stronger, friendship makes us better.
Although we may be deprived of everything, only our own choices may
truly deprive us of human dignity... These words ring the bell for the
majority of people; yet, seldom do they appear so unique, so real and
so concrete as in this wonderful film...Based on the novella by Stephen King RITA HAYWORTH AND SHAWSHANK
REDEMPTION, the story appears to be unlike any other movie, unlike any
other adaptation of Stephen King's stories onto screen, unlike most
productions of the world cinema. Why? I think that every viewer has to answer this question oneself. What I
am going to do in this review is not look at why it is so powerful, why
it is so unique but rather focus on a certain aspect that, in a way,
refers to this question. What absorbed me to the very core of my
emotions and feelings is the main plot of Andy (Tim Robbins), the
banker wrongfully convicted of murdering his wife and her lover and
sentenced to Shawshank prison where brutality and wretchedness really
reign. At the spot where for many people, life actually ends, for Andy
a new tedious struggle begins. Quickly befriended by "Red" (Morgan
Freeman), actually the narrator of the story, both soon prove that even
in the worst circumstances, within the "hell on earth" they can
maintain human dignity and strive on their own way to freedom...Here, let me refer to Roger Ebert's words who nicely described the
character of Andy: he says that "Andy turns out to be a surprise to
everyone in Shawshank, because within him is such a powerful reservoir
of determination and strength that nothing seems to break him." Indeed,
salvation lies within discipline for him...self-discipline...Except for some other plots, including the touching yet tragic story of
Tommy Williams (Gil Bellows) and of the sympathetic librarian Brooks
Hatlen (James Whitmore), it is Andy and Red who supply us with the most
unforgettable moments in the movie. It is, as a matter of fact, the
story of their friendship, their dreams expressed at the wall of
despair. They maintain hope around themselves and within the viewers.
Here, a very powerful aspect of Red is his narration...our thoughts are
directed towards his thoughts, towards his reflections and his
perception of the events, his - the prisoner's. Swear words take on
power to convey meanings and harshness becomes reality. Here, it is
important to mention the inevitable brutality in the film. Thanks to
the fact it is perceived by Red, it never appears to be unendurable or
harmful for the emotions of the viewer. We, as observers, truly know
what world we are led to...yet, there is no loss of hope!The unforgettable scenes seem to evoke the most powerful associations
and expectations that lie within us concerning the visual and sensual
experience. With Thomas Newman's terrific music score consisting of
dark piano music, we are supplied with intense emotions and effective
thrill. Except for the symbolic and almost cult scene when Andy escapes
the prison (mind you the almost claustrophobic effect), one cannot skip
"The Letter Duet" scene when the excerpt of Mozart's "The Marriage of
Figaro" is being played. The prison life stops for a while being
awestruck by the glimpse of harmony, by the blissful moment of
magnificence. At this moment, I was breathless and really second the
powerful line: "Music makes you free!" The performances are awesome and the depiction of characters is
executed in an extraordinary way. There are no clichés which is a great
merit of the film and where many films of the genre fall into that
trap. Although there were many actors who had been cast for the role of
Red, I think that no one would have done the job as well as Morgan
Freeman. He is perfect in the role combining a certain quality of
patience and distance with the emotional struggle for personal rights.
Ironically, he portrays a re-socialized character...in fact, richer
inside than any "corrupted decency." Tim Robbins also does a terrific
job as Andy with all his features mentioned before. And Bob Gunton as a
true villain, the boss of this hell of Shawshank will long remain in
memory.To sum it up, I agree with short but meaningful words said by Roger
Ebert: "THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is a movie about time, patience and
harmony..." I would even add that it is the film about true life where
people are really themselves, to the most extent themselves. There,
within the harshest reality... Because only there, we truly behave
according to our rules. There, we make choices even if everything that
surrounds us seems to yell: "Salvation lies within blind discipline and
fundamental Bible!" A redemptive masterpiece, a masterful
redemption...desperate Brooks was here...and so was Red...yet, he
brought a new dawn for dreams, a new dawn for friendship... Will he
succeed?

******
25 December 2008
10
Three words: Oh. My. God.How am i supposed to describe this absolutely fantastic and
unbelievable film in words? I don't know. But I'll give it a shot. Here
goes.This movie is just bloody excellent, brilliant, fantastic,
unbelievable, not a thing wrong with it, shocking (in a good way),
heck, pretty much every single good comment word you can think of.I mean, for gods sake, its so damn good it takes your breath away! i
seriously could not speak after it! it instantly took every other film
i had seen under its shadow, and that's saying something, as i have
seen some pretty excellent films.There's not a single actor or actress in this movie who is crap!!!
standouts are Morgan freeman, Tim Robbins, and the dude who plays
brooks.I could say 1239643609260246704272628xinfinity more things good about
this movie, but unfortunately I haven't got that much space, and my
fingers would get sore.An absolute must see for everyone, and I'm positive that ill never see
another movie better than this, and this will stay at #1 on my list
forever.

******
24 October 2006
10
i watched this movie just to pass out some good time... and you know
what.. i had sore and wet eyes at the end.. i don't know why but the
movie's end, couldn't stop myself..andy's portrayal by tim robbins and red's by morgan freeman was
absolutely great..i like and love andy's philosophy that "hope is a good thing.." .. and
i have tried to inculcate that in me.. i just loved the movie.. i was
like.. whats this, its ended so fast.. i didn't it want to end.. i am
not a con and neither i wanna be.. but it has shown even the guys out
there in the prisons also can be innocent.. and to prove their
innocence they can go to any lengths.. i mean that they also have got
something in them.. their hearts.. the spirit shown by andy was
absolutely great.. it shows that when you want to do something, do it
with full heart.. i have just finished it..but i'm sure i m gonna watch
this very often, and am not going to forget it for a long length of
time..

******
13 August 2006
9
If you simply see this as a straightforward storytelling prison film,
then it is excellent (10/10) because it truly gets you involved in its
main character. It is an extremely enjoyable and compelling experience
with a heartfelt and well-acted buddy-story at its core. It
delicately--and sometimes brutally--juxtaposes Andy Dufresne's (Tim
Robbins) good-natured character with the harshness of prison life,
projecting so much heart in doing so.However delightful as it is, The Shawshank Redemption has no allegories
and no statements to make and it brought nothing new to cinema in
either style or substance. It had no revolutionary ideas or approaches
- it's only a very safe buddy-story. A damn good one, but still just
that. So it can impossibly be a film that will be remembered or
studied, because what will it be remembered for? Friendship? Huh, neat.
I therefore don't think it's entirely deserving of being considered the
#2 greatest film of all time on IMDb.com.But moving on and looking past that, it is possibly one of my all-time
favourite films for the feelings it leaves. Sure, it often jerks you
for tears just a bit too purposely, but this is forgivable because
emotion is crucial to a prison story. On top of that, it never falls
prey to predictable sappiness - probably because of its content which
is devoid of sentimental romance and instead fills you up with a tragic
friendship. It is so well-sewn together by a feel-good narrative by
Morgon Freeman that it is impossible not to enjoy this film.9/10

******
21 July 2006
10
This film is a modern classic. Why? Because it simply includes
everything which builds a great story, and that is all films really
are, storytelling.The concept of story telling can very easily be lost and forgotten in
an industry that can sell cinema tickets by using special effects and
employing world super stars like Tom Cruise. That may well be the easy
option, but films that rely on pretty faces and big budgets will never
be remembered. It is films like Shawshank that will lodge themselves
into people hearts, and will be passed down by many generations.This is because everyone that watches this film becomes a part of it.
You are there, in that prison, suffering when Andy does, smiling when
Andy does. Tim Robbins plays this part so well it could be classed in
one of the best lead parts in a film ever. He is simply superb. Plus,
Morgan Freeman, well, would we expect anything less from a man with
such talent?It is this relationship, between Andy(Robbins) and Red(Freeman) which
really strikes me as a breathe of fresh air, as if i had been hit in
the face by a strong wind. We are trapped in a society where
relationships only seem meaningful and deep when the two people
involved are having sex. Hollywood have molded this preconception that
characters with a relationship must sleep together. Shawshank, for
once, tells the tale of two men, who by the end of the film have a very
strong relationship, but have not gone down the Brokeback mountain road
of madness. Their friendship is portrayed free of sex, yet is portrayed
so powerfully that you are emotionally taken back by the ending.
Personally i nearly cried at a friendship so pure yet so meaningful.The plot is also perfectly timed. I am someone that is usually quite
critical if the speed of a film moves too fast or if it drags on.
Shawshank gives you a mixture of paces, but also keeps the story
turning and turning, as if it has a heart beat, pumping more and more
of the story line, unwinding the plot before your open jaw.Another subject i would like to comment on is the swearing. Again, i am
normally quite critical of films that have swearing in, just to look
cool, or higher the rating. Swearing in that context seems unnatural,
and therefore disjointed. However the swearing in Shawshank seemed
totally natural, and all part of the atmosphere of the prison.Finally, i think everyone should see this film. This is a pure, yet
thrilling tale of hope, friendship and belief. The story is executed
brilliantly, with intense characteriztion from both sides of the
spectrum- you become Andy, and go through his struggles with him, and
you hate the warden and his captain with a passion.I guarantee, by the time those credits gracefully slide up the screen,
you jaw will be open, your mind will be blown, and your heart will be
broken into pieces. This is a truly unforgettable masterpiece.

******
16 March 2006
9
The Shawshank Redemption is in a league with Casablanca as a movie you
can watch over and over, catching different nuances each time and
bringing your own life experiences each time you watch it. Tim Robbins
gives the performance of his career and this is the movie for which
Morgan Freeman should have won an Oscar (a shame he had to wait for
Million Dollar Baby.) There are many twists and turns and I defy anyone
to watch the ending without tears running down their face. In fact, the
entire last third of movie is filled with marvelous scenes. If there is
any drawback to this movie, it is that it is a shade too long, meaning
it's often butchered when it is shown with commercials on TV. Rent
this, or better yet, buy it to get the full thrust of it. Definitely on
my personal top 10.

******
9 October 2005
9
I have been a fan of this movie for a long time.It seems that ever time
my life hits a downward spiral, I can always seem to pop this movie in,
and come up with a solution to my pending problem. It somehow gives Me
sense of peace and inner strength.So, It wasn't all that strange for me to pop it in when I was going
through a rough patch in my marriage. I found myself identifying with
many of the characters in this movie.Many of them are trapped in a world of regret and mourning, due to a
mistake that had been made early on in their lives. This film gave me the strength to escape from my world of misery. And now I am able to say I, Like Andy broke out of my own personal
Shawshank.My Ex isn't too happy about the divorce. But life is much better now.
And I feel saved from a life of unhappiness, Due to a mistake of a
marriage to early in life.Thank You Frank Durabont.Your film saved my life.

******
25 December 1998
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of the few movies adapted from books that
turned out to be good .. or in, this case, brilliant.Although the movie supposedly takes place somewhen in the 1950's, I can
easily imagine it being transferred to today's time and standards. The thing
that is most fascinating about is is that the directors [and writers, of
course] didn't use extreme clichés - there's no black and white painting,
just numerous shades of grey. Robbins and Freeman both are perfect for their
roles, as are all of the supporting actors.Finally, I can understand why a certain movies gets a high
ranking.

******
24 December 1998
10

All is perfect : the complexity of the characters, the suspense, the
principals themes like friendship, loneliness, injustice, redemption,
vengeance, freedom... The most complete movie that i've ever seen. Tim
Robbins is great, sensitive, brilliant: in one scene, he can feel a thousand
of feelings. Freeman is very correct and seems to be really "Red". Gunton,
Sadler and all the others seemed to have fun playing in this master of
peace. Titanic is pure entertainment and received 11 oscars. This movie
deserves 30 oscars because it shows what is really important in life. No
action, more realistic, more useful than the other films. It was really a
BIG BANG in my head the first time i saw it. When i see it again, I think
and I realize the incredible power that the cinema's industry have. In a
different way, only Star Wars, Saving Private Ryan and some others have the
same impact.

******
6 November 1998
10

This is definitely one of my favorite movies -- it makes me cry and laugh and
ache inside all at once.  Tim Robbins, you make my days a little brighter --
thank you!

******
21 October 1998
10

My life is forever changed due to this movie.  It is a movie of hope,
"redemption", and friendship.  It shows a deep growing friendship between
two prisoners, Andy and Red.  They each are shown growing through their
distinct hardships at Shawshank prison.  As time passes, hope wanes but a
flame burns bright in Andy.  His hope and unrelentless nature carry over to
his friend Red.As Red's long stay in prison comes to an end he sees the light at the
end of the tunnel.  Andy has left it for him to see the way to freedom, and
he follows it.This film parallels my life and leaves me wondering if my advice will
help somebody see the light.  For some of those people time will tell.  As
for now I'll be patient to wait and see.  Don't end up like Brooks, there
will always be someone to help you out.  There is someone out there that
cares for you.  Thank you Andy Dufresne, your hope is the flame of my life.


******
23 December 2012
10
Along with Q and Pulp Fiction, Frank Darabont (The Walking Dead
original writer) and his debut film got screwed by the Hollywood
Powerhouse that is Tom Hanks with this now can be considered an
American Classic. The fact that this film barely and I emphasize barely
made it's money back in US theaters (which is usually a signal for a
film to turn into a DOA when released at home) and it made such a
splash, that the film is exceeding what anyone thought a simple 18
years ago. This includes some of Hollywood's best critics including
EW's Owen Gleiberman who originally gave the film a B- back in late
'94. Yet over time, this story of redemption, like the rise of hope
this film gives from beginning to end, grows on you to the point where
at the very end, you have no choice but to clap (I clapped in my
basement in front of my parents and I haven't looked the same since).
Darabont found a formula that worked and it shows in his future films.
He made Robbins human, made Morgan Freeman's voice as American as a Big
Mac and made the late great Rita Hayworth relevant again. The only
regret that one should have is the fact that if it was released two
years later it would've swept away the Oscars (Sorry Ralph Fiennes, The
English Patient won on a weak year.)

******
19 March 2012
10
I will always remember the night I watched this movie for the first
time. I was 16-years-old and my dad and I were pretty bored late on a
school night. So naturally I say to my father, "Dad, I think it's time
to watch Shawshank". I almost regret watching it. It is that good. It's
like nothing I ever see in my lifetime can ever compare to the
emotional roller coaster that 'The Shawshank Redemption' takes you on.First question I usually ask people when discussing films is, "So have
you seen Shawshank?". No matter what their reply is I am happy with the
outcome because if they say no, then they are yet to see the greatest
movie of all time. If they say yes, I have something to talk to them
about for the next 27 minutes.You probably still won't believe me when I tell you that this is the
greatest film you will ever see. It's that good that I actually told
one of my friends not to watch it until she was on her deathbed. Then
she will see this movie without ever having to compare anything else to
it. Now when I see a movie all I think is, I've already seen the best.Now actually getting onto maybe even reviewing this masterpiece (not
that any summary of the plot could ever do it justice). So all I will
say is this, I have never heard anyone give this movie a bad review. Do
yourself a favour and don't even bother to finish reading this. Just go
and watch it.

******
1 June 2010
10
To tell the truth, I am speechless. I am a young movie fanatic, in
fact, this film came out the same year I was born, and therefore I am
more used to films incredible special effects, edge-of-your-seat
action, et cetera. This film has none of that, and yet, it appeals so
closely to me. The way Frank Darabont uses the narration of Red to
drive on the story, the beauty of the soundtrack used (note the
harmonica used just before Red's finding of the letter close to the
end). The entire film, from beginning to end, from actions to sound, is
a beacon of hope, judgement, and redemption. The cast is perfect,
Morgan Freeman(Red) actually brings about a refreshing feel to the
tale, and that is exactly what the movie is, what a movie should be.
Highly recommended for every viewer, no matter your taste(or age-
!judgement excludes use of language or violence!). I can't say it
deserved its nO.1 position, i can't say any movie does, but if any
movie should, this one might as well be it. *********

******
17 February 2008
8
I finally watched The Shawshank Redemption and I agree that it is an
excellent film. The pacing, directing, and storyline, holds interest
throughout, along with a superb supporting cast, and a very moving
ending.The main character is Andy played by Tim Robbins who is imprisoned for
the murder of his wife. Later on in the movie, the evidence comes out
that he is truly innocent. However The Shawshank Redemption sends a
powerful message that it doesn't matter whether you are innocent or not
inside Shawshank penitentiary. This is because the prison is run by a
sadistic and corrupt staff. In this facility, you must use all of the
intellect you can, both book smarts, and street smarts to not only stay
alive, but prevent yourself from going insane within the system.Andy befriends "Red," a fellow inmate, played by Morgan Freeman in
another great performance. He teaches Andy street smarts of survival
within Shawshank's hell-hole. Andy, an experienced banker with a master
ability for finance and book learning, manipulates the prison officials
to get funds to set up a "basic skills" learning facility within the
prison's library. Red helps him organize this, and HOW Andy sets up the
funding is really an amazing part of the movie. Another inmate is the
head librarian, known as "Brooks," who delivers many amazing scenes in
the movie.What is special about The Shawshank redemption is how the characters,
especially Andy and Red, are able to use their inner abilities to rise
above the conditions of the prison and the people who run it. There are
some disturbing and violent images that show the harsh realities of
prison life, such as fighting, and often getting beaten by the staff or
punished for very small offenses and a lot of times for no reason at
all. The Shawshank Redemption shows the abuse of power by prison
authorities and how the inmates have to have the courage to rise above
this abuse, because they need to do this, in order to keep living. They
learn that failure to get this courage and survival skills from other
inmates will destroy them. A great quote in this film is. "you can get
busy living, or you can get busy dying." Another interesting experience
is how Red often wonders how at his advancing age he will be able to
survive outside the prison if and when the parole board lets him go. An
underlining message is that whether you "get busy living or dying" you
become so accustomed to life in a controlling environment that the
outside world, and the struggles, to reach it, to become physically and
mentally "free" are an enormous challenge requiring great perseverance
and the ultimate in determination.As good as this movie is, I was looking for that spark of magic that
would put it at and over the top of all time classic films. However, I
think that there are some outstanding prison movies that are just as
good if not better than The Shawshank Redemption. Watch the Sean Penn
Movie, "Bad Boys" for an outstanding portrayal inside and outside a
juvenile prison. (Interestingly, Clancy Brown, who plays the bad
officer in "Shawshank," is just as good as a prison bully in "Bad
Boys.") Another great movie is "Midnight Express" which is (although
loosely) based on the real story of Billy Hayes who was arrested in
Turkey for trying to smuggle hashish back to the USA in 1970. This is
another amazing survival prison picture with an unforgettable musical
score and some chilling moments.I see The Shawshank Redemption equal to, but no better than "Midnight
Express" or "Bad Boys." This is NOT a criticism of a fine movie! I am
only putting The Shawshank Redemption in strikingly similar prison
survival pictures that don't get the same credit that this movie does.
Call this movie the greatest ever, and you have to do the same for
"Midnight Express" or "Bad Boys." All three films have the same
emotional impact. Another under rated movie that you should see is "An
Innocent Man," which is also similar to The Shawshank Redemption but is
considered only above average.The Shawshank Redemption is a great film for its time. But because of
similarities to other similar prison pictures, I can't classify it as
great for all time

******
17 September 2006
7
THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is a kind of morality tale that is definitely
one of Stephen King's more restrained kind of stories, dealing mostly
with a character study of two individuals sharing imprisonment and the
consequences that await them when the tale ends.TIM ROBBINS is a man wrongly convicted of murder and serving a long
prison term while MORGAN FREEMAN (who plays the narrator with great
dignity) describes himself as "the only guilty man in Shawshank." The
hardships of prison life are captured in brief scenes that make the
viewer wish that Robbins will find a way of escape. Along the way, he is gang raped by prisoners and treated harshly by a
brutal warden and some of his spirit seems to vanish. But Robbins is
quietly effective as a prisoner who makes a good adjustment when he
takes charge of the prison library and sees to it that there's a wider
selection of books than the kind of potboilers that King is noted for
writing. A touch of irony here, no? The closing scenes are a bit of a
stretch and a reminder of just who wrote this prison tale--but still,
they make an impact because of all that happens before.It's a bittersweet story, a sort of horrific fairy-tale of what might
have happened, but the viewer will be caught up in the story because of
the tremendously skillful story-telling magic of Stephen King and
director Frank Darabont who also wrote the screenplay.

******
4 July 2002
10

To call The Shawshank Redemption a great film would be doing it no
justice
at all. This is a film that when I watched it the first time I couldn't
believe how good it was.  I expected a film that would pass the time by,
and
I got a film that I could identify with.  If you are feeling sad, and
you
think the world's a rubbish place, this fills you with hope.  I love the
opening scene where the camera pans around the prison, and then the
music
kicks in, it makes you feel awe-inspired.  The acting was brilliant, you believed what everyone said (some films
the
words are delivered with such cheesiness and fake ness, that it makes
you
want to throw up). I have watched Spiderman, and even the lines in that
make
you feel that they mean nothing, they just sound good. The film and book reciprocated the message 'Hope Springs Eternal', which
means so much because we always live in hope that tomorrow it will be
better, things might change for us, and hope never dies. I think, when Tim Robbins speaks about music, how you can never take it
away, because it's in your head.  If I have a rubbish day at work, then
it's
true that music just lifts you, which is re-emphasised with the scene
where
he plays the music full blast around the prison (this of example of
piece of
script, which means, so much). The movie uses music to it's full
potential
to give more impact to the words and the characters.  This film cannot replicated, because the film is a piece of art, the
Director wanted to make money, but he also wanted to make a piece of
film
that made you feel something, that had some effect on you after the
movie
was over. The movie has no bad points it's what a story should be about,
it
takes you somewhere that you nether been, and makes you feel you lived
that
experience, and you can learn from that experience.  The lines
delivered,
will always be remembered 'Get busy living, or get busy dying' (this is
the
dilemma we face in everyday live).  This will live in my memories
forever,
not like the sorry cash-ins of movies.  This is a brief synopsis of how great the movie is, but words just seem
so
little to explain the brilliance of this film.

******
28 December 1998
10

Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt the most uplifting and touching film
I have ever seen. It is the only movie I've seen that has made tears of
happiness come to my eyes. I would (and do) recommend this film to anyone
and everyone.  

******
6 December 1998
10

Now, I see what everybody was talking about. It took me 4 years to see this,
in my opinion, masterpiece. If you have not seen this movie rent it anyway
you can. The performances delivered by Robbins and Freeman are, to me, the
pinnacle of both their careers. This film cannot help but evoke tactile
imagery to the fullest capacity. You feel what the main characters are going
through the sensation is uncanny. Robbins (Andy) and Freeman ("Red") are a
balance of the human spirit. Andy is your freedom-seeking hope side and
"Red" is your rational, pessimistic counterpart. Find your equilibrium in
"The Shawshank Redemption."

******
24 August 2010
10
Before watching Shawshank Redemption for the first time, I really
didn't think much of it. I thought it had probably wrongfully earned
the #1 spot here on IMDb, and couldn't be better than The Godfather for
example. A movie that was "cool" to like, if you will. I could imagine
fashion conscious movie-hipsters discussing movies over their glasses
of Napa Valley Chardonnay, arguing who liked Shawshank Redemption the
most, and which movie by Ingmar Bergman had the strongest metaphorical
messages. You get the idea.I'm sure everything I have to say about the way the movie has been made
has been said better in one of the other comments. That said, the
reason I'm posting this review is because Shawshank Redemption isn't
only a hardcore movie freak's wet dream. While it's brilliantly
written, has some of the most fluent acting I have seen and shows the
fantastic directing skills of Frank Darabont, you really don't have to
be an expert of film theory to appreciate it. It appeals to so many
different groups of people, and so many different human feelings at the
same time. The "weaknesses" it had as it came out (the idea of a jail
movie not being compatible with the female population, and the idea of
a movie about lifelong friendship between two men not being compatible
with the male population) is actually the reason Shawshank Redemption
is loved by nearly all: It offers something for everyone.In my opinion rating something 10/10 is a bit too absolute for
anything, but since this is probably the best movie I remember seeing,
and my first 10/10, I think I'll let it slide this time.

******
19 February 2008
8
From the director of 1990's "Buried Alive" comes perhaps the strongest
drama of 1994. "The Shawshank Redemption" is emotionally fulfilling in
every way, uplifting its audience again and again. Darabont's
screenplay, adapted from (and expanded upon) Stephen King's short
novella "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption", is at once soul
stirring, heart-rending and disarmingly funny. As director, Frank
Darabont brings this poignant and oft times surprising (largely
unpredictable thank goodness) script to the screen with the kind of
loving care that only a writer/director can, ensuring that all the
right elements are brought to the surface.Startling performances from Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman and the entire
support cast help make this picture a powerful production. As convicted
double murderer Andy Du Fresne, Robbins portrays innocence and
determination superbly. He's a man who not only strongly believes he
has a future, but that it's a good one. Freeman is spot on as the world
weary "Red", the lifer who specialises in the supply of merchandise
("whatever you want") to other inmates. He is gradually transformed,
and always surprised, by Andy's optimism, geniality and brilliance. In
support of these two leads are some very strong turns which provide an
over all feast of superlative acting talents.The cinematography is superb, capturing some spectacular images of the
foreboding Shawshank prison, while Thomas Newman's music is awe
inspiring and must be duly recognised as a truly moving composition."The Shawshank Redemption" is a long movie, though it would seem that
to shorten it would mean to miss out on some powerful, if not crucial
scenes. In this light, the editing team have done a marvellous job.What makes this film so effective is Darabont's brilliant script and
astute direction, coupled with the strong acting and great support
production. Darabont achieves all his objectives, making us laugh, cry,
listen and think, he both surprises and inspires us many times. We're
left in the end with an uplifting and wholly satisfying movie, which is
unexpectedly memorable and magnificently rewarding. A definite triumph
of the human spirit.Perhaps the conclusion could be called simplistic, but certainly not
expected, and that's what makes this story so great. "The Shawshank
Redemption" comes from nowhere to really hit you with its well written
characters and even its carefully researched history. Wonderfully
emotionally telling and thankfully intellectually sharp, its a pleasure
that you must treat yourself to! Look for two brilliantly played
characters in the form of the menacingly sinister Warden (Bob Gunton)
and the despicable, ruthlessly violent Captain of the Guards (Clancy
Brown).Thursday, July 27, 1995 - Waverley Pinewood Cinema"The Shawshank Redemption" was the surprise of 1994 from director Frank
Darabont. Full of emotional highs both comic and poignant, it is by far
the best prison film I've ever seen. Performances from Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman are truly inspired, whilst a classy support cast lend
strong backing. Cinematography is at times breathtaking and Thomas
Newman's score is sweeping and melodic.For uplifting cinema that constantly comes form nowhere to move its
audience you can't go past "The Shawshank Redemption."Tuesday, April 30, 1996 - Astor Theatre

******
19 November 2006
9
this an incredible film this movie was make feel the happiness this
unbelievable 20years dug in the jail without no body know and
abbreviation this is a great movie and this is form a few great movies
you will see it in your life and is to be enough the writer was the
greatest writer in the world Stephen king Tim Robinson give all he have
in this film and Morgan free man he give unforgettable part in his Lief
and how was believe the bad and strong officer at the end crying and
they take him to punshid him above he did and Tim Robinson pushed the
administrator of the jail to suicide after he take all his money this
movie i will can't forget it for along time he will be in my memory for
ever

******
3 November 2006
7
I really liked this movie, which I just recently saw for the first
time, strange indeed since it is more than 10 years old. It reminded
me, naturally I would say, to Papillon, the 70's McQueen/Hoffman
classic.I like the story, the acting, basically everything, and I definitely
recommend it to everybody. But compared to Papillon? There are so many
similarities that one has to think that idea of the movie did not came
out of the blue. Because of that the movie has to accept to be compared
with Papillon. And Papillon is simply even better. It is emotionally
much more touching, and when even Freeman's great performance doesn't
match Hoffman's, there is no doubt that Robbins is not close to McQueen
- in that role I mean! Tim gave a great performance but his role didn't
give him the chance that Steve had.Anyway, a joy to watch. But please watch the "original" too, it's not
old-fashioned at all! I can only guess, but I think the huge
differential of 9.1 for SR and 7.9 for Papillon is because most young
people have never seen Papillon.

******
7 August 1998
10

A film about a Stephen King story? Directed by Frank Darabont.  .  .  Who? 
 Starring Tim Robbins.  .  .  Wasn't he the guy from Howard the Duck?  I
 admit, only the sublime acting talents of Morgan Freeman took me along to
 see this movie.  Now the only questions I have to ask are:  Why didn't
 EVERYBODY go to see this movie?  and, Why didn't Morgan Freeman win the
 Oscar?  Tom Hanks is a fine actor but, he should never have beaten Morgan. 
 Once again a Stephen King short story translates to film better than his
 horror opus'.  Tim Robbins pulls out his finest performance to date, and,
 Mr Darabont take a bow.  Very rarely are you left with a large smile and
 warm heart at the end of a movie but, I could have danced as the camera
 slowly panned back from the beach.  .  .  Perfect.

******
23 April 1999
10

This movie is one of the best I have ever seen. I first read the book, and I
didn't liked it that much, but then I saw the movie. And that's a things
that's never happened to me before, the movie was better than the book. It's
the other way normally. But in this case, the movie is so much better, I like
the end more than in the book.
Watch the movie, it is great.

******
23 December 2006
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a story of life itself. It is not about a
person in prison, it is about the soul and the battle it accepts and
carries on to deserve the life it has been given by God. I watched the
movie for the first time some months ago. That evening I was about to
go out with some friends but out meeting was canceled and I had to stay
home. Being unhappy about that, I started watching the movie on the TV
just by chance, not knowing about its existence before that at all. At
first I was skeptic, I admit that. But oh God, at the end of it I was
screaming and jumping in my room at 1 AM! It gave me so much emotions
and so much hope, I had never felt before that. I could hardly believe
that a movie could make me feel that way - so excited, so happy about
my life, leaving me believing so much in my own self. It is a great
story of what the strength of your thoughts can make you do. In The
Shawshank Redemption desire does not make you weak, just the opposite -
gives you wings to fly away from fear, fly closer and closer to
freedom. Morgan Freeman's voice is just another advantage that makes
the movie even more impressive. Tim Robbins' act is just beyond
perfection! I bought the DVD this summer and every time I feel weak or
just bad about something, I watch the movie. It has become my personal
shrink, making me feel strong enough anytime I watch it. Can never
imagine a better movie made anywhere in the world even after 1000
years!

******
31 August 2002
7

Deliberately (some might even say slowly in places) paced, "The Shawshank
Redemption" alternates between offering a grittily realistic portrayal of
life in prison and flights of fancy that make the story too unbelievable to
really be accepted. There is an interesting subplot (which doesn't take up
much of the movie but which does make the viewer ponder) about the
difficulties of adjusting to life in the real world after extended periods
of incarceration. The performances from the two leads are excellent. Morgan Freeman puts on
his usual outstanding performance as "Red" - the wise old con through whose
eyes the story is told, and Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresnce, a young banker
wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover who has to adjust to
the nightmare of prison life. Among the supporting cast I was impressed with
Bob Gunton as the Bible-spouting but corrupt Warden Norton, who uses Andy's
financial expertise to enrich himself, and James Whitmore as Brooks,
imprisoned for fifty years and terrified when he is finally granted parole
and who, unable to adjust to life on the outside, yearns only to be back in
the only home he ever knew - prison. It's an interesting twist - experience
also by Red later on in the movie - that freedom can seem to be like a
prison for those so accustomed to the regimentation of life in an
institution.While the movie is impressive and engrossing all the way through, though,
there are some weaknesses to the story that bothered me a bit. (There are
some spoilers ahead.)I found it difficult to imagine prison guards from all over the State of
Maine bringing their tax returns to Andy. It just didn't seem to me like
something that would have happened. It also struck me as unlikely that a
letter-writing campaign from one solitary prisoner (even one that lasted six
years, one letter a week) would have convinced the State to fund the
improvements Andy got for the prison library. I would rather expect that
after a while the letters would simply start to be discarded. Andy's escape
also bothered me. It was too "easy" - even though it took twenty years. And
how did he keep that suit so spotless and unwrinkled while crawling through
that dirty sewer? Mind you, the moments leading up to the discovery of his
escape were among the most dramatic in the movie. The very end of the story
was also clearly telegraphed some time before.Frankly speaking, I think "The Shawshank Redemption" is a bit over-rated
here at IMDb, being ranked the second best movie of all time, but this is
still a very, very good movie, and an excellent portrayal (through Andy) of
the survival of the human spirit in even the toughest times. Personally, I
give it a 7/10.

******
30 January 2007
6
Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a man convicted of double murder who
is sent to jail, eventually befriending other lifers including Morgan
Freeman's Ellis Redding. Exceptionally handsome adaptation of Stephen
King's short story "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" (in the
film version, it's really Raquel Welch, not Rita, who aids in the
ultimate twist). On the surface, it's another prison-genre picture with
the usual stereotypes such as a rotten warden, a cruel guard, a few
homosexuals, and a quirky old-timer who doesn't want his parole.
However, the film's emotions run surprisingly deep, justice is well
served by the conclusion, and several of the cast members carve out
amazing, three-dimensional characterizations. The finale is pure
fantasy, however it does provide the audience with the release it
needs, and Robbins and Freeman are excellent. Long, involved, but
engrossing and satisfying, "Shawshank" was not a big hit at the
box-office but found a devoted following on video and cable. **1/2 from
****

******
23 July 2005
5
I simply fail to understand how this film is so popular... it's quite
simply beyond me. The only way I can explain it is that all the fans of
King's short story found it very true to the spirit of the book, and
voted 10 for that. I really could not find anything worth my time in
this film, and apart from a very good monologue from Freeman near the
end, one or two good lines of dialog and the acting, there's really
nothing in the whole film worth watching it for. It's about hope... and
the director won't let us forget it, so it's repeated until the
audience mumbles it in our sleep. It's like this short, one-note story
was written, and the author just didn't want to end it... so he kept
writing... and writing... until someone had the sense to break down the
door and wrestle the pen from him yelling "for the love of all that is
holy, stop writing!" And I thank that faceless man for doing that,
because it is undoubtedly the only reason the film was 142 minutes
long, and not 284, or, dare I say it, 568. The film simply drones on
and on, scene after scene, containing nothing remotely interesting(but
with excellent acting, mind you). There's nothing good about this film
except for the acting. Just about all of it is great. I can't really
think of anything else to say... I guess my dislike for the film stems
from my hatred of King's writing. I suppose it is possible for someone
who is neutral on his works to enjoy this film. I recommend this to
fans of Stephen King, the actors and possibly Frank Darabont. If you're
not a fan of any of these people, I doubt you'd find this enjoyable.
5/10

******
24 April 2004
7

There is no denying that this is a very good movie. The acting is great and
it tells a good story. Personally, I find it a bit too long and a little too sweet for my taste,
but its far from a bad film. On the other end of the spectrum I have yet to understand why this film was
nominated for as many Oscars as it was and why so many people have fallen in
love with it. To place it on the same level as The Godfather and several
hundred other films has to be the result of different tastes.This is a film that should be seen because its a good movie, not because its
a great one.

******
27 November 2015
10
This is it, I have always been so careful on not getting carried away
while watching great films and calling it the best. I am talking about
the league of The Godfather, Casablanca, The Good The Bad & The Ugly
and 12 Angry Men. So I always called each of them one of the best. I
never believed THE BEST ever existed. It can't be, right? How can
anything be the best or perfect. Definitely not perfect film. There's
got to be something wrong somewhere I just need to look close enough.But I was wrong. Although I knew I was all the way. Right from the very
first time I watched The Shawshank Redemption on HBO in 1997 (18 years
ago) and I waited 18 years, 5 thorough viewings, 1 sceptical review
before I wrote my final judgment of this film. This is the best film ever made. Spotless. True classic. And it was not
even directed or acted by the legends we know today. Sure they are true
legends. But what Frank Dorabont, Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman & their
amazing crew did is something extra special. They created the best work
on cinema ever with almost none of those legends working on them. This film needs no further description. Ten out of ten in every
department of film making. Full of incredible moments. Beauty, class
and intellect in almost every scene. You do not need to know the No.1
film status on IMDb for over a decade to actually believe in the power
of this genius work of art. This is the best, if there is one. This is
the film that reaffirmed my faith in hope, human perseverance and
friendship. I'm sure there are many who believe this isn't that great,
but I am glad I think otherwise - and believe me, its a great feeling.
Of having found the best film, being a huge film lover. 10/10 - the
only time I ever did or would do this on IMDb or elsewhere.

******
24 November 2015
10
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul

******
28 July 2015
6
I watched this film and it's interesting enough, but the highest rated
movie on the Internet movie data base? That just proves there are a lot
of people out there who don't know a thing about the cinema. if I want
pure fantasy I go to Jean Cocteau or someone like that because that's
what this is - pure fantasy. And pure Hollywood corn. A higher rating
than the Godfathers, or Vertigo or Psycho? Citizen Kane or Touch of
Evil? That's a joke. Here's something to ponder... In the segregated south Morgan Freeman is
on the block with white prisoners?!? Even Alcatraz was segregated until
the day it closed in 1963.This is Fantasyland stuff. Where's Walt Disney when you need him?

******
13 June 2014
8
The movie is definitely one of the best movies i have ever seen, but to
be honest, the movie is also greatly overrated in many ways. I believe
that the reason the movie is so popular is because of the huge wave of
popularity towards voting it up. As the movie portrays the continuous
struggle for the main character, Andy Dufresne, you are in suspense,
and locked by the question whether he did it or not. And even though he
keeps doing good and honorable thing for the guards and his fellow
inmates. There was in my experience not a moment before he escaped
where you are absolutely certain that he did not do it. This is the
thing that captivates a lot of people i think, and i follow this
aspect, and i understand it. But even though this movie, in my opinion
does not have any flaws, it is still not perfect, and i do not think
that it is the best, not flawed feature film ever made.

******
18 July 2013
10
This film is really an amazing movie timeless. One of my all time favorites. About the long-can write something in a movie. Masters said everything I needed There is not yet aware of the movie
and I watched it for people to watch I would like to invite.Than You.Shawshank Redemption is a very moving story about hope and the power of
friendship. The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great
performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob
Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison
guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an
elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every
actor at least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As
well as a very surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me
out of my chair. If you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet
buy it. As I bet you'll want to see this one more than once.

******
16 July 2013
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a timeless story of heartbreak, deception
and ultimate growth under the most deplorable conditions. The acting is superior, some of Tim Robbins' and Morgan Freeman's best
work as they allow me an intimate look inside the sometimes
contradictory nature of a convict's existence, where I am torn
emotionally between danger and safety, light and shadow, sanity and
sorrow, truth and lies, injustice and justice. In fact, I am lost in
all the actors' poignant and memorable portrayals of young thugs, cruel
guards, swindlers, thieves, rapists and murders, all standing in their
respective spaces quietly listening together to an operatic aria over a
loudspeaker on the prison yard.In this movie, I find almost no one to be all good or all bad. There
are exceptions, though. Although there are those in charge of the
prison I wish to be caught in a snare of their own making or worse,
there are still others behind prison walls that turn out to be heroes I
cheer on to win in the end. Like people in real life, most of the
characters in "The Shawshank Redemption," both prisoners and guards
(those that are not miserably rotten to the bone), represent many
shades of gray.One of the most touching moments in "The Shawshank Redemption" is a
scene in which an elderly convict, who has spent the better part of his
adult life locked up, is brokenheartedly paroled into a modern world
that is as alien to him as his outdated suit and boyhood memories. And
his fear of this new and unnatural terrain, crawling with shadier
creatures than those he had known behind bars and the exhaust fumes of
a thousand horseless carriages rushing past, engulfed him with no hope
of ever escaping."Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free," from "The
Shawshank Redemption."As bonds form between people of different ethnic groups, economic
backgrounds and intellectual levels, I rejoice in their discovery of
the human dignity they share. As the story unfolds, my heart hurts so
hard, I cry. Then, with tears still in my eyes, I laugh, the same way
my family used to laugh together at dinner or a movie when I was a
little girl.Getting older. Times changing. People leaving. Dying. But at the core of the main character's spirit there shines upon all
those who are within its range, including me, a contagious hope
eternal. I am still astonished with the euphoria that fills my being
each time I view this incredible story about the invincible human
spirit.

******
16 July 2013
10
This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared
it long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability. Darabont
shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and
production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce
art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life
and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed
breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of film. It
proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and still
bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.These
artists show their capability to produce art; real art that inspires
you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you...

******
16 July 2013
10
This movie is one of my all time favorites. Undoubtedly, one of the
most brilliant movies I have ever seen. Story, cast, screenplay all are
great. The directing by Frank Darabont was just magnificent. The
amazing casting of both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins is amazing, and
couldn't be more accurate. It was narrated by Morgan Freeman, who is
the best narrator in Hollywood, I believe. Actually the film depends on
the story and the way in which it unravels. It will change the way u
think about things around u. Surely, It will teach you one thing that
it is easy to take away a man's bread, even his freedom, but impossible
to take away his hope.I can say with confidence this is the best movie I have ever seen - or
ever will see. If you haven't watch it yet, just GO! Watch it! Now!

******
16 July 2013
10
Could a movie be any more perfect? This movie is just absolutely
stunning in so many ways. Acting perfect, storyline perfect, soundtrack
perfect, emotional drama perfect, everything about this movie is
perfect.When this movie first came out it did not reach the expectations that
many people expected it to. But as the years went one it was nominated
for seven Academy Awards and as it was available for rent everywhere
more people started appreciating it and it's popularity grew.
Eventually after many years in the top 5 of IMDb's top 250 movies of
all time list, it hit number 1 with over one million votes.The story is about a well educated vice president of a large bank being
wrongly accused of murdering his wife and her lover and is sentenced to
spend life at a large prison in new England called Shawshank prison. As
the years go on in his new home he makes friends, enemys and a dramatic
twist at the end which became one of the most legendary scenes in movie
history.I love this movie. The acting is just so passionate and their
performances increases the drama and horror of life in prison. The
soundtrack is one of the main reason behind the emotional drama this
movie. Many scenes in this movie almost left me in tears mainly because
of the soundtrack in the background which increases the emotion. The cast of this movie include Academy Awards winners Morgan Freeman
and Tim Robbins. And also William Sadler, Bob Gunton and many other who
made this movie what it is.Overall it is defiantly the Greatest movie ever made with passionate
acting, great storyline and plenty of emotional drama about how hope
overcomes fear in a beautifully crafted film about the strength of the
human spirit.

******
16 July 2013
10
Wow! what a film this baby is and yes this film is one of the most
brilliant films ever written by man and i for one was literally stoked
from the start, so as a future film maker, i hope to one day make a
film like this because if i do i will definitely die a happier man. the
film was just awesome in every sense and i really loved the plot, it
had some great cliff hangers and great and classic scenes where the
main character became himself more and you just fell in love with him
so on that basis i would class this film as one of the all time greats
and if you haven't seen it yet, go out and buy it because you won't be
disappointed at all, believe you me.

******
15 July 2013
10
It's very rare that you find such diversity in a movie now days. I like
the story and it's concept.A thumping good ode to friendship, hope,
wit, wiles and wisdom, brimming with crackling characters and topped
with the most twister of twists since "The Crying Game." The Shawshank
Redemption is a powerful and uplifting, not to mention Oscar-worthy
film. In 2006, it was ranked as the greatest film ever by Empire, a
film magazine. The year it came out it was nominated for 7 academy
awards but did not win a single one because of a movie you may all
remember, Forrest Gump. It's the no-bull performances that hold back
the flood of banalities. Robbins and Freeman connect with the bruised
souls of Andy and Red to create something undeniably powerful and
moving. Some of "The Shawshank Redemption'' comes across as
outrageously improbable. Yet the film keeps pulling you back with its
sense of striving humanity slowly turning the tables against evil.

******
14 July 2013
9
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) bides his time during twenty years'
imprisonment for the murder of his wife in this adaptation of a Stephen
King story. And being Stephen King, the setting is once again Maine,
though you'll find 'Shawshank State Prison' in Ohio. It's the
forbiddingly Gothic Mansfield Reformatory, 100 Reformatory Road,
Mansfield, on US Route 30, about 80 miles southwest of Cleveland.Built between 1886 and 1910, the reformatory remained in operation
until 1990 and was scheduled for demolition when the film was made. In
fact, much of the prison yard has now gone to make room for the
adjacent Richland Correctional Institution, but the striking
Administration Building lives on as a tourist attraction. Find it just
north of downtown Mansfield, off South Olivesburg Road.

******
14 July 2013
10
I don't care if there are some poor souls who would like to belittle
this film. Just think of these misfits as beyond redemption.I saw this film in 1995 and still vividly felt the euphoria of the
final half hour which stayed with me for a couple of weeks.I was convinced this was the best film I had ever seen in my life, even
better than Akira Kurosawa's Ran and One flew over the cuckoo's nest,
which was my all time favorite until TSR came along.I excitedly contacted my best friend who shared the same passion and he
confirmed my thoughts,"this must be the best film I've ever seen!" But
it is sad though that I will probably never see a better film for the
rest of my life as I have seen the best.In music I have heard the best in Rush and Jackson Browne which made
others pale in comparison and in movies I have TSR.Hail Frank Darabont!

******
2 July 2013
10
In 1947, banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of murdering
his wife and her lover, based on circumstantial evidence, and is
sentenced to two consecutive life sentences at Shawshank State
Penitentiary. Andy quickly befriends contraband smuggler Ellis "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman), an inmate serving a life sentence. Red
procures a rock hammer for Andy, allowing him to create small stone
chess pieces. Red later gets him a large poster of Rita Hayworth,
followed in later years by images of Marilyn Monroe and Raquel Welch.
Andy works in the prison laundry, but is regularly assaulted by the
"bull queer" gang "the Sisters" and their leader Bogs (Mark Rolston).
In 1949, Andy overhears the brutal chief guard Byron Hadley (Clancy
Brown) complaining about taxes on a forthcoming inheritance and informs
him about a financial loophole. After another vicious assault by the
Sisters nearly kills Andy, Hadley severely beats Bogs resulting in Bogs
being sent to another prison. Andy is not attacked again. Warden Samuel
Norton (Bob Gunton) meets with Andy and reassigns him to the prison
library to assist elderly inmate Brooks Hatlen (James Whitmore), a
pretext for Andy to manage financial duties for the prison. His advice
and expertise are soon sought by other guards at Shawshank and from
nearby prisons. Andy begins writing weekly letters to the state
government for funds to improve the decrepit library. In 1954, Brooks
is freed on parole, but unable to adjust to the outside world after 50
years in prison, he hangs himself. Andy receives a library donation
that includes a recording of The Marriage of Figaro. He plays an
excerpt over the public address system, resulting in his receiving
solitary confinement. After his release, Andy explains that he holds
onto hope as something that the prison cannot take from him, but Red
dismisses the idea. In 1963, Norton begins exploiting prison labor for
public works, profiting by undercutting skilled labor costs and
receiving kickbacks. He has Andy launder the money using the alias
"Randall Stephens". In 1965, Tommy Williams (Gil Bellows) is
incarcerated for burglary. He joins Andy's and Red's circle of friends,
and Andy helps him pass his General Educational Development (G.E.D.)
examinations. In 1966, after hearing the details of Andy's case, Tommy
reveals that an inmate at another prison claimed responsibility for an
identical murder, suggesting Andy's innocence. Andy approaches Norton
with this information, but the warden refuses to listen. Norton places
Andy in solitary confinement and has Hadley murder Tommy, under the
guise of an escape attempt. Andy refuses to continue with the scam, but
Norton threatens to destroy the library and take away his protection
and preferential treatment. After Andy is released from solitary
confinement, he tells Red of his dream of living in Zihuatanejo, a
Mexican Pacific coastal town. While Red shrugs it off as being
unrealistic, Andy instructs him, should he ever be freed, to visit a
specific hayfield near Buxton to retrieve a package. The next day at
roll call, upon finding Andy's cell empty, an irate Norton throws one
of Andy's rocks at the poster of Raquel Welch hanging on the wall. The
rock tears through the poster, revealing a tunnel that Andy had dug
with his rock hammer over the previous two decades. The previous night,
Andy escaped through the tunnel and the prison's sewage pipe with
Norton's ledger, containing details of the money laundering. While
guards search for him the following morning, Andy, posing as Randall
Stephens, visits several banks to withdraw the laundered money.
Finally, he sends the ledger and evidence of the corruption and murders
at Shawshank to a local newspaper. The police arrive at Shawshank and
take Hadley into custody, while Norton commits suicide to avoid arrest.
After serving 40 years, Red receives parole. He struggles to adapt to
life outside prison and fears he never will. Remembering his promise to
Andy, he visits Buxton and finds a cache containing money and a letter
asking him to come to Zihuatanejo. Red violates his parole and travels
to Fort Hancock, Texas to cross the border to Mexico, admitting he
finally feels hope. On a beach in Zihuatanejo, he finds Andy, and the
two friends are happily reunited.

******
28 April 2013
10
And I truly mean that. When I first saw this film, I was blown
away.With superb acting, superb story, perfect emotion and tone, and an
incredible twist ending that still amazes me, this film is completely
and utterly perfect. The film speaks of hope, and the film's two main
characters debate throughout the movie about it. One character believes
that, in prison, hope is dangerous, and that it should not be used
because it will simply make life tougher. Another character believes
that hope is needed, because it helps you to keep pushing for a better
tomorrow when one does not appear to be in sight. While very engaging and immensely entertaining, this film would not be
held to such high regards if not for the twist ending, which is one of
the greatest movie endings of all time, in my opinion. If the ending is
merely average, this film would simply be considered good, possibly
great, but not the masterpiece that it is today. And, watching it
repeatedly makes the film even better, because experiencing the events
that occur within the story makes the ending even greater. I can't speak for everybody, but this is a film that I can watch over
and over again, and love it more each time I watch it. And, while I
simply talked about the ending this entire review, that is not all that
makes this film incredible. However, I will not waste any more of your
time talking about how wonderful this film is. And please do not waste
any of your own time. Find a way to see this movie as ASAP. It will be
time well spent, and you will certainly see it multiple more times.

******
14 February 2013
10
I have written a few reviews on IMDb and Shawshank is one of my
favorite movies of all time. I don't necessarily think this movie was a
10 but an easy 9 for me. I am giving it a 10 because of the negative
reviews that I read with saying they gave this movie a 1 just because
others had given it a 10. As far I'm concerned it's mine to give, if I
want to to give every a movie a 10, (which by the way I don't). I am
just sick of people telling me that a movie can't be great because it
was story driven and not character driven, maybe I like story driven
movies, I certainly liked this one. So here's another 10 for you movie
snobs will have to eradicate.

******
22 September 2012
9
'The Shawshank Redemption' is perhaps one of, if not the, perfect film.
Every other "great film", or any film for that matter has it's pros and
cons. Most motion pictures that are as well received as this have
plenty going for it, very few against it. While I feel there are films
out there with better pros; the pro to con ratio of 'The Shawshank
Redemption' out-stands any other film film ever produced. I can't begin to describe every amazing element of this film. Obviously
the performances are exquisite, the directing is exceptional and the
score is extraordinary. The cinematography, in particular, struck me.
Roger Deakins is a master with light and framing. I will watch this film again and again and remember it as one of the
greatest films ever made. This film truly lies within the sweet spot of
cinema.

******
14 June 2012
9
A very, very, very brilliant film. The acting is superb from Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman, as always. The script was amazing, along
with the directing. The film is one of the best films ever made due to
how original it is. And the reason it is original is because it is a
prison film with heart. It makes you care about criminals. The score is
also very good.It's an enthralling piece of cinema and just... Amazing. I'd recommend
this film to anyone due to everyone relating to it. People like films
were you are sympathetic towards a criminal, just look at A Clockwork
Orange.

******
24 May 2012
10
It is really amazing movie i have ever seen in my lifetime. The cast
and the story of the movie are really successful. Andy is a passionate
character, and he is convicted of murdering his wife and her lover
despite his claims of innocence. It is so touching to spend almost two
decades in the prison. Old-fashioned prisons in the 90s are full of bad
guy who don't expect anything from the life. And , they don't think how
we escape here. However; Andy with his close friend in the prison , Red
, tries redemption from this prison, by the time , Andy tries to do
beneficial things for people in the prison not to attract attention. It
is unbelievable that they escape from this prison. But , Andy
approaches to place of exit. It is actually amazing , it is really
incredible. They go to their dreams to live a peaceful and quiet life.
Also; Andy prepares a trap for the chief of the jail. After the
redemption , they become free anymore. It is really an amazing movie.
Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and definitely one of
the top 'prison' movies of all-time. Pretty much everything about this
movie works and works extremely well!

******
4 May 2012
10
Deservedly ranked at the top of IMDb's all-time best 250 films ever.The casting is superb: Morgan Freeman is "Red," a wise observer of
people and an entrepreneur inmate who's made "connections" so he can
get contraband to other inmates for a price; he's under a life sentence
for murder. Tim Robbins is "Andy," a smart banker and accounting whiz
who was sentenced to 2 life terms for killing his wife and her lover
(which he--like most other inmates, say they're not guilty of). And Bob
Gunton is "Warden Norton" who, when we first meet him, is touting the
virtues of Bible reading and strict discipline. While, fortunately,
I've had no first hand experience, "Shawshank" certainly gives the feel
of authenticity of prison life and its society.A long movie, most of it takes place inside a semi-corrupt state
penitentiary in the late 1940s. "Red," in talking his thoughts out loud
to himself, becomes our narrator for many developments. As the story
unfolds, increasingly we come to see Andy as a person with strong
personal values which he upholds in the most difficult situations. And
in Andy's work for Warden Norton, we also increasingly find the warden
as morally his opposite: selfish and fundamentally lacking decent moral
character--all show and appearance and with no integrity, substance.In Roger Ebert's first review (of his two) of this movie, he said:
"....the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal
worth, despite everything....the word redemption is in the title for a
reason...." Most viewers will agree.

******
30 August 2011
10
Im not going to sit here and go into a deep explanation of what this
film is about, because that has been thoroughly explained in many of
the other reviews. What I will say is that The Shawshank Redemption is
without any doubt the most amazing film ever written. The acting is
tremendous, the story is original, and the movie itself has a deeper
meaning to it. This movie is not about the hardships of prison, it is
about the importance of friendship and the realization that hope is
your greatest aspect. This piece does not focus as much on Andy and his
great escape from Shawshank, but more on Red finding that there is
always meaning and a purpose for everything. The story really unfolds
when Brooks, an old timer that Andy and Red had been close friends
with, is put on parole and released from prison. After confronting the
outside world and knowing that he could not cope with it, Brooks finds
that he has no purpose outside of life in jail and hangs himself. Later
in the movie, after Andy makes his great escape from prison, Red is
finally released from Shawshank himself, and is put in the same
situation as Brooks. Only one reason marks the fact that Red himself
didn't commit suicide. That reason is Andy. Red figures out that he
does have a purpose outside of prison which is to see his best friend
again and to "give him a handshake". And as the movie comes to a
marvelous ending, that hope to see Andy becomes a reality.Overall the best movie I have ever watched and I am glad to say that I
will continue to keep watching it again and again and again.

******
5 July 2011
10
The 'Shawshank Redemption' undoubtedly deserves to be the highest rated
movie. The movie depicts how a four lettered word 'Hope' brings wonders
to our lives and makes something impossible to possible.Though the plot of the movie focuses on how Andy Dufrane, a falsely
convicted prisoner gets out of the prison, the beauty of the movie lies
in the characterization of Andy Dufrane (just amazing) and how he
influences his fellow prisoner 'Red'. The narration by Morgan Freeman
in the role of 'Red' is perhaps one of the best narrations i have ever
come across. This story proves that the king of horrors, Stephen King,
is equally good at any other genre of 'Story Writing'(Hats off). The
dialogues towards the end of the movie about hope are truly inspiring.
The background score of the movie is excellent. Tom Robbins and Morgan
Freeman at their best in the roles of Andy Dufrane and Red
respectively.Didn't watch the movie??...go grab a DVD and watch it as soon as
possible. Can't miss a movie like this....

******
6 May 2011
10
I watched this movie for the umpteenth time probably last Sunday and
how much I loved it yet again!!! A movie I would never ever get bored
of and definitely, one of my all time favorites. A simple yet wonderful
story about HOPE!!! HOPE  One word that drives all of us and gives us
reason to live. We push ourselves through our mundane lives in the hope
of achieving / finding something that we dream of. In the words of this
movie's protagonist  "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things,
and no good thing ever dies"!!! Superlative performances by Tim Robbins
and Morgan Freeman.A must watch if you haven't!!!

******
5 October 2010
10
This movie I'm not going to call this film the IMDb #1 movie, but I
really can't deny that this is fantastic. The cast, the score, the
writing, and the power are all here in this film, and filled with
strength. It's one of those movies that you will continue to think
about even after the film is over. It is about a friendship, a life, an
evil, and a hope. A hope that is considered in many ways to be bridge
to insanity inside the prison walls. We see these people as years of
time goes by. We see friendships grow, and topics change. It really
puts you in the prison, and makes you feel what's like to behind those
bars. You feel the friendship, the hope, the darkness, and the pure
horror of it all.4 stars out of 4

******
5 August 2010
10
I never saw this film on the silver screen. I didn't want to see it on
video either.The video store owner implored me to watch it and I remember my
emphatic reply. "I'm not watching a 3 hour film about a prison con
doing tax returns for the guards". Fortunately for me, this video store
owner was a mightily persistent sort and I begrudgingly walked home not
knowing that I had just rented the greatest film ever made.This film received no hype nor the mega-bucks publicity given to a lot
of movie trash out there. Because they didn't need to - all they needed
to do was to let people watch it because word of mouth is the best
marketing ticket in town. And so it proved.The movie is long and relies on a storyline which has been covered many
times. Wrongful conviction, brutality in jail, justice in the end. But
it is the way in which the story is told and acted out that defines it,
quite rightly, as IMDb's top ranked film.I don't care for Stephen King as an author but his vivid imagination
coupled with his skill at telling a story (a short story in this case)
is top drawer. We have a man (Dufresne) who after being convicted
wrongfully for murder, uses his accounting skills in jail solely to
survive. Red (Freeman), the man who can "get things" befriends him. The
story then slowly unravels with shocking scenes of brutality
intertwined with flickers of how the human spirit can overcome the most
hazardous odds. The Warden, Samuel Norton, is magnificent as a man
whose corruption has spiralled out of control and will do almost
anything to retain the status quo. Clancy Brown as the brutal guard
completes the double act.The story twists and turns leaving the audience not quite knowing
whether we are in for a harrowing or euphoric ending. And when the
ending comes on that Mexican Beach you can almost hear the triumphant
cheers ringing around the cinema halls.This is film making at its very best and it is highly unlikely that
Robbins and Freeman will ever better it. Its one of those few occasions
where 10 stars is not nearly high enough.So if you have been living under a rock or are as sceptical as I was in
the early 90's, then it's time for me to adopt my friendly video store
owners guise and say "Watch this - its the best film ever made".

******
20 July 2010
10
I haven't seen too many movies that I would rate a 10, but I had no
problems giving this one top score.Movie-making seems to be like golf; for a truly excellent game, ALL the
elements must come together. Everyone involved must have perfect
"form". Director, Darabont, must have been at the top of his game when
he put this gem together. Of course the actors were excellent; Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins seldom disappoint. The thing that makes this
movie exceptional is that Darabont coaxed the best performances out of
the supporting actors also. Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown were utterly
believable (and bad guys don't come much worse than them).The other essential ingredient for a successful movie is simple: It
must have a well thought out plot with a perfect beginning, middle and
end. So many movies fall over by getting at least one of these aspects
wrong. Not so with Shawshank Redemption. Just like Goldilocks said,
"This is just right!" Buy this one for your home collection because
you'll definitely want to see it again.

******
26 May 2010
10
I always define films as an artistic medium for a person to immerse
himself to a place full of positivity and hope in an unending hymn. And
for generation after generation there's only one film that I will
always give praise for, finally giving a masterpiece that successfully
delivers that thought. A film called The Shawshank Redemption.Never has been before the film came out, illustrates the triumph of
human spirit behind any hardship in the most moving manner until this
inspiring film. It's powerful in every way, that for me it brought back
the real definition of an excellent film which is "a great story with
great characters".Mainly about Andy Duferne (Tim Robbins) a skilled banker who was
convicted for murdering his wife and her third party who's a pro
golfer. Duferne, sentenced for double life imprisonment was sent to the
notorious and sullen looking Shawshank prison to serve his sentence.
While counting his days inside, several events happened to Andy.
Meeting "the sisters " was one of his hardships he needed to go
thorough, as they sexually assault selected prisoners like him, which
made his stay harder and longer than he thought. One day, he also met
Ellis Redding (Morgan Freeman) who was literally known to get things
and run it through the walls of the prison, as Andy asked him for a
hammer. Unknown to Andy, Redding had his bet on him earlier, as the
first one amongst the newest batch of inmates to break down. Subtlety,
the two became prison buds as the days became months and the months
became years. The two almost stick together the whole time of their
stay. They conversed things about the realities of prison. Which at
times they contradicted at each other's opinion for Andy had always
been the "hopeful dreamer" and Redding with his face of realism.The story soon evolves into great circumstances in favor of Andy, in
spite of being a workhorse inside the prison, exploited by several
police and the warden himself for his skill of handling money, Andy
through his skill, will, and hope proved that there were great things
waiting to happen for those who hoped and wait. For he always believed
that HOPE is a great thing, that everyone should always have.The Shawshank Redemtion is a film for the ages. Its beauty as a whole
will never fade as it is one of those greatest films that show an
almost tangible message to fathom. It is substance over style at the
end of the day. And what it evokes is what matters which leaves you
moved and some even satisfied for every tear that they shed from an
abundance of happiness gave by a magnificent piece of literature.It's the best film I've seen and it will always be carved to the bank
of triumphant feeling.Truly excellent, 10/10.

******
10 February 2008
10
I totally adored the concept of hope in this film. I love how the
director portrays the Shawshank tyrants as corrupt murderers, that's
pretty much what they are and serve as the grounds for the escape of
Andy. Now Morgan Freeman's got talent, I love that guy he may not be
the greatest out there but he is a force to be reckoned with on the
set. I loved how he gave the story flavor with his descriptions of
characters and perceptions of how life was in lonely jail cells of
Shawshank. You know there's a lot more to say about this movie, it's
too good too be true. Especially the ending which by the way brought
tears to eyes, the most moving scene!!! Overall it was superb and all
thanks to Stephen King for putting this in the form of alphabets in the
first place. I'm starting to regret not reading any of his novels. And
kudos to the director for even coming up with such an idea for a movie.

******
30 December 2007
10
One of my favorite movies ever,The Shawshank Redemption is a modern day
classic as it tells the story of two inmates who become friends and
find solace over the years in which this movie takes place.Based on a
Stephen King novel,this movie makes us feel different watching this
film than most others as this is an incredibly realistic film.Tim
Robbins stars as Andy Dufresne who is convicted of murder and Morgan
Freeman as Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding who is a fellow inmate and close
friend of Dufresne and Bob Gunton as Warden Samuel Norton who is the
Warden of Shawshank State Prison and is a character who has mixed
feelings and emotions towards everyone around him and a character who
is sometimes easy to like and at other times easy to despise.This film
is easily considered one of the greatest films of all time and I
definitely agree with this fact.It was nominated for seven Academy
Awards including (Best Picture, Best Actor  Morgan Freeman, Best
Adapted Screenplay, Best Cinematography, Best Editing, Best Original
Score, and Best Sound) but didn't win any due to tough competition from
the film Forrest Gump.I personally think that Tim Robbins should have
been nominated for the Best Actor award as he really gave the
performance of his career.Bravo to this brilliant modern day classic!

******
10 December 2007
10
When i rented the movie, i was doubtful, whether to rent it or not.
Then i started watching it. From the very 1st moment i was kinda sure,
it wud be worthy watching this; and worthy it was. The fascinating
performance of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, the direction, and
everything puts you in the place of the actors, making you feel the way
they felt. This movie doesn't have any dirty romance or impossible
actions, rather, it focuses on a greater philosophy - Hope to live when
there is no hope, survival -- This is one movie, that will leave you
talking about it even many days after watching. I won't say anymore,
the rest is up-to you to find out when you see the movie

******
25 October 2007
10
At the time of writing this comment, IMDb ranks the Shawshank
Redemption as No. 2 in top 250 best movies of all time. Let me tell you
that this is no exaggeration and no small feat given IMDb's strict
rating criteria. Shawshank is indeed, up there amongst the best, and if
you haven't seen it yet, you should make it a point to watch it, at
least once sometime in your life. For it is an astonishing tale, of
endurance, courage, life, and perspective, combined with a stunning
score that flows so closely with the highs and lows of emotion that it
could make grown men cry. No words can explain how good Shawshank
really is, but let the sheer volume of good user reviews made by
devotees in this website be proof enough of its greatness.

******
26 June 2007
10
To be honest, I enjoy reading a good novel more than watching a film.
You usually get far more character development than in a movie (e.g.
Puzo's The Godfather).But not with Shawshank. This is the closest thing film has to a perfect
story. The characters, pacing, plot, monologues and every other element
contribute to an inspirational yarn with a fulfilling ending. Brook's suicide is the only film scene that has ever moved me to tears,
and if you watch just one film in your life - let it be this. Not a
film which others have tried to mimic for a good box office, e.g. LOTR:
The Return of the King, The Godfather, but an original, stand-alone
film that, in my opinion, will never be surpassed in quality

******
27 May 2007
8
This is one of the best movies ever made. Not really because it's
really really good but because everyone likes it! I can't think of
anyone who doesn't like this movies, young, old, male, female and over
the entire globe! Good Work! It's a story about a man (Tim Burton) who
is cent to jail for a crime he didn't commit (the murder of his wife
and lover). In jail he meets good and bad people like always. One of
them is Morgan Freeman. He is the guy who can get you anything you
want. Because Tim Burton is innocent and a very intelligent guy he is
desperately trying to find a way out of this jail. The relationship
between Tim Burton and the rest of his jail-mates can be touching but
also horrible and with some violence. This is a great "feelgood" movie
about hope, love, hate and freedom!

******
17 May 2007
10
When i watched this film i thought now whats this going to be like?
After watching it i thought it was a brilliant film,fantastically acted
with greats like Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins and Bob Gunton. Very
realistic and definitely one of my absolute favourites of all time. At
the end it made me cry and thought about life. Every time i watch it
the film brings a tear to my eye. Fantastic film and worth
watching,it's really realistic film and another one of stephen king's
great stories, a story of hope and many people who have watched will
say the same thing - if you haven't seen this film already then watch
it, it is brilliant, just brilliant!!be prepared to be moved, it's such a breathtaking journey for the whole
two hours. A truly lovely magical film, my favourite of all time
fantastic

******
31 July 2003
9

People look for all sorts of things in movies, and you can see it in the
occasional negative review that pops up for this movie.  Some viewers are
looking for gritty realism in everything on the screen.  Others are action
junkies.  Still others perhaps take film too seriously and reduce
moviemaking to nothing more than a game of who can come up with the edgiest
shot, or the niftiest angle.  For all of these, there is the very real
chance that they simply will not "get" this film, and that's too bad -- they
are missing out on a classic.At its best, film can transcend merely being a series of pictures, no matter
how pretty, and can reach down and touch people.  That is where Shawshank
succeeds so brilliantly.  It is not the fastest moving movie, not the
edgiest, not the grittiest, it is filmed in shades of gray.  But this movie
absolutely sings with human spirit, and captures an universal human theme as
well as any movie has ever done.  And THAT is filmmaking at its finest.  Not
a game, not eye candy -- this movie stays with you long after the credits
have rolled.

******
9 May 2001
8

The reason I am commenting on this film is that I saw that it is #2 in the
IMDB top 250 films of all time. Why? It is a good movie, for sure, but there
are so many movies that are far superior. Does it really deserve to be ABOVE
"Citizen Kane"?The Shawshank Redemption is a great story, with fantastic performances by
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, but it is also a conventional Hollywood
movie and just doesn't venture into very deep waters.Stephen King creates great stories that hold the reader's interest throughout
and are always exciting, whatever the genre. Yet he doesn't really make any
very interesting insights into humanity. His characters are either good or
evil; there is no in-between for him. That is not to say that his "good"
characters cannot commit crimes or make mistakes, but the "evil" characters
seem to have no motivation beyond just being, well, basically evil! For
example, Clancy Brown's prison guard and 
Bob Gunton's warden are rather one-dimensional characters. Why do they
exist? To make the protagonist's life a living hell. For no other
reason.****SPOILERS BEGIN**** While Tim Robbin's prison escape makes you go
"woohoo" and jump up and down in your chair, it's just not a very feasible
plot development. I mean, come on, the guy is there for 20 years and NOBODY
notices that he has dug a four foot hole through his wall? I don't usually
have a problem with surrealism in films, but this is not a surreal film. It
is otherwise realistic, so the escape scene just didn't sit right with me.
****SPOILERS END****Every scene is accompanied with trite music, so that we know when to be
happy, when to be concerned, when to get teary-eyed. The cinematography is
technically fine, but there's nothing new in that department. The villains
are completely one dimensional characters with nearly no motivation except
for their own sadism, and the film leaves no room for you to draw your own
conclusions. Like in most Hollywood films, it is expected that the audience
is basically stupid so we have to have it spelled out for us in the end. The
movie goes on about ten minutes too long. I gave this movie an eight out of
ten, because I love a good story and Tim Robbins is excellent as always, but
it is not really the most original film of all time.There are several prison films which I would rate superior to this one.
Among them, "Kiss of the Spider Woman", "Papillon", and "Cool Hand Luke".
See these first before you give this movie a ten out of
ten.

******
28 May 2014
7
A good prison movie whose cult of fans has made it into something so
much more than it is. Greatest movie ever made? Get real. It's not even
the greatest prison movie ever made. Hell, it's not even the best movie
released in 1994! It's predictable and borrows heavily from decades of
prison movie clichés. It's also nowhere near as deep as its staunchest
admirers would have you believe. Still, it's an entertaining movie.
Nice direction from Frank Darabont. Morgan Freeman is the highlight
with a solid supporting cast. Tim Robbins, however, is borderline
ridiculous at times with his cartoonish facial expressions and silly
"stares-off-into-the-distance" moments. He's so far beneath Freeman as
an actor it's sad. With a normal movie like this, I would focus more on
the positives. I did give it a 7, after all. Unfortunately, it is
easily the most overrated movie of all time (on IMDb, for sure) and as
such the balance of positive to negative is out of whack.

******
15 February 2013
10
Well let me start off by saying I felt compelled to write this review
to spite the numerous people who give it a 1 out of 10 "because they
feel it should be lower then a 9.3" and go on to write what they really
think, to you people I write this: you should vote it according to what
you think the movie should be, i.e. if you think the movie deserves an
8 out of 10 then you should vote as such, I think this movie deserves a
10 out of 10 and so I have given it as such.As for the movie, I can't tell you how incredible it is in my opinion,
it is the only movie to date I could watch again and again, and not get
tired of watching it, the cast was spot on everything was perfect, the
subjugation of the prisons by Captain Hadley, all of it was simply spot
on, honestly speaking I don't know how people could watch this and fail
to see how truly amazing it is, well deserving of its number 1 spot on
IMDb.Also I read that people don't understand how Andy "pinned" the pictures
to his wall, it could be either celotape or bluetac and as you see
during the movie, Andy works from under the poster when digging his
hole so there is no plot hole of "how he put the poster back up after
entering the hole" because the poster never gets taken down.

******
17 December 2012
9
This suspense filled, dramatic movie rides high on the plain of self
discovery, self worth and self preservation; if an innocent man is
locked up for two decades with criminals, nothing else will he learn
than to be a criminal himself. There is no better movie that I can
recommend you to see than this classic Jail Break that stared one of
the best supporting actors you will love to have on your side if you
are in the lead role of a movie, Morgan Freeman.Shawshank Redemption was adapted from a Stephen King novella named Rita
Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Frank Darabont secured the right to
make the film from King in 1987, and he worked intensively on the
screenplay for a proper adaptation of the movie, Darabont's screenplay
writing earned him an Academy Award nomination, in fact the movie had
seven Academy Award nominations and won none.The film tells the story of Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is a banker
who got convicted for murdering his wife and her lover; he got two
consecutive life sentences at Shawshank State Penitentiary. At
Shawshank Andy befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding
(Morgan Freeman) Red was a contraband smuggler.Andy also developed a nice rapport with the warden and the other guards
helping them with their taxes and also helping the warden in his money
laundering operation.The movie boast of amazing scenery not to add an impressive
cinematography, the movie growth and inclusion and exit of characters
will make you feel like you are reading a book, the movie has numerous
cast, and it is broken into segments each introducing new casts and
each building a parallel wall that guides us to the climatic end.It didn't do well in the box office at all barely making back its
production cost, but due to critic's high rating and Academy Award
nomination, Golden Globe award nomination and other notable
nominations, the movie did well in rental and DVD sales, it is shown
regularly on Cable TV, and it has a high following.Frank Darabont who is the director and screenplay writer also made more
of King's books; He directed the 1999 Tom Hanks movie The Green Mile
which was a box office success compared to this. The Green Mile is
another of King's books that is about a prison, and Darabont also
directed the 2007 movie The Mist which is also based on a Stephen King
book.Here is a DVD every home should have.www.lagsreviews.com

******
30 November 2012
10
***WARNING: THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS*** In 2007, the American Film
Institute released the 10th anniversary edition of their 100
Years...100 Movies list. On this, "The Shawshank Redemption" was listed
at #72. I find it insulting it was ranked so low."The Shawshank Redemption" is adapted by Frank Darabont from the
novella "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" by Stephen King. There
have been many adaptations of King's works (e.g., Stand By Me, Misery,
The Green Mile, etc.) but "The Shawshank Redemption" outshines them
all. Why? Because it is nothing short of outstanding.For those of you who don't know what Shawshank is about, it concerns a
banker named Andy Dufresne - played by Tim Robbins - who is wrongfully
convicted of murdering his philandering wife and her lover and
sentenced to life imprisonment at Shawshank State Penitentiary. He
becomes close friends with Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman),
the film's narrator who has a reputation for being able to "get things"
from the outside world for the other prisoners. He and Andy become the
best of friends as the years go by, during which time Andy's financial
knowhow becomes an asset to the prison guards, particularly the corrupt
Warden, who uses Andy as an accomplice in his money-laundering
operation.Shawshank explores themes of redemption and hope. Throughout his time
in prison, Andy refuses to accept the hopelessness of his situation and
maintains his integrity and self-worth, which ultimately pays off at
the conclusion of the film. Likewise, Red finds redemption and solace
through his friendship with Andy, by performing acts of common decency
that, in turn, build his own sense of integrity, self-worth and hope.It is these themes that do not make Shawshank a great film but an
excellent one. The visual style should be applauded, particularly Frank
Darabont's direction and Roger Deakins' cinematography. While the
characters communicate and interact freely, they are nonetheless
trapped within the confines of the prison, accurately captured by the
dark tone of the atmosphere that Deakins and Darabont create so well.The performances in this film are masterful. Tim Robbins' lead
performance as Andy Dufresne is skillful and nuanced. Each line is
delivered flawlessly, his body language and subtle facial expressions
are perfect in capturing the character's calm, laconic yet hopeful
demeanour. His performance surely merited an Oscar nomination and
deserved more recognition than it had from major award ceremonies.The performance of Morgan Freeman is also one to be noted. His
narration is superb, and he never fails to connect with the audience.
Particularly in the last quarter of the film, Freeman gives solid proof
of why he is one of the finest actors alive.The Shawshank Redemption is arguably the best movie of all time and
deserved more recognition than it had. Held in high regards by critics
and viewers everywhere, it serves as a testament to Frank Darabont's
skill as a director and Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman's skills as
actors. It is surely to go down as one of the modern classics of
filmmaking and is up there with "The Godfather", "Citizen Kane",
"Casablanca" and "Gone with the Wind." One of the greatest achievements
in cinema in recent times.

******
2 July 2012
10
I'd never heard of "The Shawshank Redemption" when I tuned in to it
about 15 minutes in on one of my satellite channels, sometime around
1997 or so.It mesmerized me, and the last 20 minutes astounded me. The twists, the
musical score, the final scene. Amazing.I recall doing some searches (in those pre-Google days, probably with
Alta Vista) to find out if anyone else had ever heard of this film. I
found out that they had. It turns out a whole lot of people discovered
this film as a "sleeper," on DVD or cable or satellite.My favorite movies of around that time, seen in theaters, had been
"Pulp Fiction" and "Heat." I didn't see "Forrest Gump" until around
2000 or so, and didn't care for it much. A good year for films.Given the comments in the past half year or so (that I've gone back
through), I suppose "Shawshank" will fall below some other films. There
seems to be a a trend toward making "Hey, it's not all that!" (That is,
it's not all that good, it's lousy, it's overrated, etc.)Whatever, it's a great film. And when I happened to see it late one
night on my satellite system, I thought I was the first to realize how
great it was. It took several years for me to spot the high ratings on
IMDb and to read that it had become a cult classic favorite.(Ditto for "The Big Lebowski," which for a while I thought I was the
only fan of. Now it's a subject of festivals and midnight watchings,
sort of like "Rocky Horror" once was. I saw "Rocky Horror" in 1976 at
the World Science Fiction Convention in Kansas City and thought it was
not very entertaining.)For me, the last 20-30 minutes is just the best. One twist after
another, all seamlessly done. And a compelling musical score.
Unforgettable.

******
20 June 2012
10
There are only a few movies that one will see in their lifetime that
affects the course of your life. I have loved The Shawshank Redemption
since I first saw it, but only recently had its powerful effect shown
to me. In short order I lost my father to illness, my wife to
separation, and my career to anger and dismay. Lost in depression,
mired in pain, and alone in a large house I watched it again. Between
Brooks suffering, Red's hatred of hope, and Andy's response to his
final isolation, I stopped feeling alone. It is simple...get busy
living or get busy dying. This movie gave me the strength to start
over. The movie is popular for many reasons, but it has a healing power
for people trapped in their own Shawshank.

******
20 March 2012
10
awesome movie...the story is highlight and the way Tim Robbins acted is
simply superb...one of my favorite movies...!!! I really loved all the
characters of the movie and all the drama involved in it. this is one
movie that took over my mind for many days. It created a stir worldwide
and made me think that movie's can be made in this way also.so I
suggest movie lovers to watch this movie and not to miss a single scene
in this film.hats-off to the cast and crew of shaw shank redemption it
is one hell of a movie which will be remembered at least for a
century.lets hope we get to see more films like these and enjoy the
drama and enthusiasm which was provided by this very film.

******
25 January 2012
10
I've heard of this movie before i saw it, to be honest not a single
disagree on the perfectness of the actors or the production or the
story or the dialogue, man!!! when i saw it i agreed and supported it
to the last very minute, its one of the best movies i ever watched and
it really deserve to the 1st top movie in the American cinema's history
... I'd like to thank all the people who worked in or share in it, i
give it up for their great effort that will last in every one's memory
for his life time. I'm sorry for my weak expression as I am impressed
and my words may fail me, I did my best to deliver what i think. Hope
to see new production with this kind of quality and this kind of
mastering in every single detail.

******
14 January 2012
10
2417th review!!!! Superb. Great. Masterpiece. Unforgettable. Excellent. Brilliant. No, no
, no. I have been thinking for months to find a word that can describe
the film. Nothing's found yet and , to be honest, I think nothing will
be found forever. The movie can't be expressed by words. Words are
unable to talk about it and I have nothing to say about this
masterpiece. But I'm hopeful to be able one day to express my feelings
about it because "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and
no good thing ever dies" When it come to the Shawshank Redemption, I
prefer to remain silent because "silence is full of unspoken words"

******
6 October 2011
10
I will never forget the first time I watched "The Shawshank
Redemption", with my father. Both of us were fans of prison and
male-bonding movies, and choose the film only expecting to watch a
solid drama. Needless to say that, when the last line was delivered and
the TV screen painted the walls with a beautiful blue, the feeling that
we had just watched something exceptional instantly cut through our
hearts, and before the second viewing, we would regularly mention how
great that film "with the poster" was.Then I would never miss it whenever I found it on TV, and after each
viewing, it unveiled one unsuspected element of its unique appeal. I
guess if it doesn't justify, at least it explains why this movie that
didn't do well in the theaters, had a better success on VHS, TV and DVD
before it would ultimately dethrone "The Godfather" from the first
place on IMDb Top 250. And it's only justice if "The Shawshank
Redemption", the least spectacular of the four Best Picture nominees in
the glorious 1994, made by a relatively unknown director, a movie with
an appeasing and appealing patience, took its time to grow on people
and did it pretty well, as if it applied its own philosophy, patiently
but determinedly. This is the strength of "The Shawshank Redemption", its ability to tell
a story that spans a long period of time without trying to get to the
so-called essential, the simplest things take their full meanings, the
smallest details have their share of importance. And think about it, in
a prison where everyone wears the same outfits, where the days are
regulated by the same routine, all you can do is to make a life out of
this routine, make a place, to get closer to your own definition of
'having a life'. And as we penetrate the impressive walls of Shawshank,
from the first vertiginous panoramic shot, we're literally submerged by
the solemn austerity of the location, conveying a very hostile feel.
These characteristics are perfectly incarnated by the figure of the
Warden Samuel Norton, who's like the male alter-ego of Nurse Ratched
from "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest". And the comparison with
Forman's film isn't fortuitous as Shawshank intends to domesticate its
occupants to the same limits of mechanical alienation, to the point
that the only thing left to the inmates is to control their only
valuable treasure: time, by getting busy, finding their own
reason-to-be, like the veteran Brooks (James Whitmore) was the man with
the books, Red, remarkably played by Morgan Freeman, was the man who
could get you things.In a very intelligent move from the script, the hero of the film, the
laconic Andy Dufresne, an upper-class banker, played in all nuance by
Tim Robbins, is condemned to a life sentence at Shawshank, for the
murder of his wife and her lover. And nothing indicates if he is
innocent or guilty and I wondered if any certitude would have
conditioned my appreciation of the character. I think it was necessary
for us to have a reasonable doubt about his innocence in order to let
his character progressively grow on us until we believe by ourselves
that he was indeed the victim of unfortunate circumstances, the same
feeling that grew in the heart of Red before becoming his best friend.
Morgan Freeman is the pillar of the film while Tim Robbins is its free
spirit, both allow us in a remarkable complementarity to dream of
abstract notions like hope and freedom while being practical and 'busy'
in the same time. And again, their friendship is a slow process that
takes its time to progress and reaches a pivotal point when Andy was
allowed to put his banker's casket again and feels that prison didn't
deprive him from his 'social quality'. Shawshank is not slow but more a
patience-demanding film with a sense of decency in the way it trusts
our intelligence. And the film's motto, on which relies its philosophical core is "Get
busy living or get busy dying". Now, two things occur to me while
writing these lines, a heart-breaking sequence about the inmate Brooks
who was freed after 50 years of detention, and who realized he was
institutionalized. A notion explained by Red: when the infamous wall
that scared you so much becomes your personal guiding light while
outside, it's all dark and your time is deconstructed. Brooks couldn't
live outside Shawshank so there was no other way he could live. The
second thing is the sad passing of Steve Jobs today. And as I was
reading his famous Stanford speech, I couldn't help but make a
connection with the beautiful message of Darabont's film, an invitation
to dream, to escape from any sort of walls or obstacles put in your
life and heart with as many dreams as you can fulfill, a notion
illustrated by the beautiful scene when Andy put some classical music
on the microphone, so the prisoners could for once elevate themselves
and having an ephemeral moment of pure freedom, this is the triumph of
human spirit, this understanding of the value of life is "The Shawshank
Redemption"In the same vein than "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", "Shawshank" is
a constant encouragement to fight the system and use time for the best,
for whatever constitutes our dreams, being men again, able to enjoy, to
feel, to give a meaning to our lives. In other words, hope, hope that
things can get better despite the adversity. To quote Steve Jobs :
"Courage is the discovery that you may not win, and trying when you
know you can lose." This is the true intelligence of life, what makes
it worth living."The Shawshank Redemption" a powerful adaptation of Stephen King's
novel is one of the greatest American films: a powerful story of
courage, perseverance, hope and ultimately, friendship and humanity.

******
1 August 2011
10
I have grown up watching Bollywood movies, full of overacting by
overpaid, overfed 'heroes'. It was in college that i got to see some
fine Hollywood films and this one was probably the finest of the lot.
This film at first appears to be a story about life in prison. It fully
describes every small experience of a person serving a long prison
sentence. Life is not easy there for a lot of reasons. The screenplay
is ably supported by Morgan Freeman's brilliant narration offering a
second-person view of life in shawshank. But Tim Robbins steals the
show by aptly underplaying the part of a wrongly sentenced, wealthy
banker.The last forty minutes of this film, however, help raise it a
couple of levels above other cinematic masterpieces. You don't need a
weapon to fight. It is easy to take away a man's bread, even his
freedom, but impossible to take away his hope.

******
12 July 2011
10
Belonging to the younger generation, I often wondered what all the fuss
about this movie was all about. I am a big fan of action movies, I
normally do not watch movies that have a slow storyline. Inception , I
always thought, was my favourite. Then I one day decided to watch the
Shawshank Redemption. I was moved to the core of my heart. The movie
instantly became my all-time favourite. It proved to me that, no matter
how dark the tunnel may seem, there is always a light burning at the
end of it. Its never too late to give up on hope. It keeps you burning
bright, in spite of the incessant and seemingly undeserved storms all
around you, till the time life may finally turn around for you. For if
your light is not burning till then, you will never make it to that
moment. This is what this movie has taught me. If you are feeling down
about anything in your life, this is the movie you always wanted to
watch.

******
16 June 2011
10
What to say about the "Shawshank Redemption"? I shouldn't really have
to say anything because when most people hear about it, they already
have a pretty good idea of how incredible it is. This movie is freakin'
immaculate. Darabont and Co. have created not only the most inspiring
film in ages, but one of the most emotionally significant films to
date. The movie teaches things to us that we need to know - messages on
hope, perseverance, and friendship - and it does it with marvelous
eloquency. All in all, "The Shawshank Redemption" remains one of the
most spectacular films I have ever seen - a master piece of art.
Perfect.

******
15 April 2011
10
I felt a sudden need to create an account on the web. Why? I do not
know. Having never written any movie review, I sometime wonder why I
felt a need to use a regular Friday night doing so. But then I ask
myself: Do there really have to be a purpose? Maybe not.The first time I watched The Shawshank Redemption were a couple of
years ago. I had looked up the evening's TV program and I stumbled
across the movie title. Not really expecting anything out from the
film's summary, I sat down on this evening and watched it. And did it
move me. I was completely blown away by everything which the film
contained: The acting, the environment, the music - and the story. The
ladder plays an important role in the movie. Why? Because in short, the
film is about a man who is wrongfully charged for murder, and the next
many years in which he spends inside prison. But there is something
more to it. The story is so well polished, constructed and so well
told, that you wonder about what was done in the process of creating
the movie, which could have made it so moving and so heart-touching.
Because really, it is all the details and the finesse of the movie,
which takes the film to a higher level than any other film which are
told through storytelling.Throughout the 130 minutes of the film, you will be witness to
fantastic all around acting, particularly from Morgan Freeman who does
a hell of a job working as the story teller. With the film starting out
slowly, it smoothly starts to work towards the second half of the film,
where the film really starts to touch your soul. The ending of the
Shawshank Redemption is one of the best on film ever made, I dare say
that.I could continue endlessly naming the goods of the film, but there is
simply too much. In the end it is hard to point out what makes the
Shawshank Redemption so much better than everything else which you have
ever seen. My advice is: Buy the film and watch it - you will not be
disappointed.I hope...

******
26 January 2011
10
An outstanding film dealing with prisons as seen by several prisoners.
Many social problems are discussed here. The picture earned a
well-deserved best picture Oscar nomination. It certainly should have
tied with the winner, the equally good "Forrest Gump."Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman etched unforgettable performances as
prisoners charged with murder. The film shows what prison life is all
about. Subjects dealing with prison survival, brutality, corruption and
ultimate redemption are well shown.As the corrupt, insane warden invoking religion to justify his actions,
Mr. Gunton gives a worthy performance.This is a film of rare power. James Whitmore was equally memorable as a
prisoner who was unable to adjust to the outside after his parole
following a 50 year stint. This shows that people who have been
incarcerated for such a long period, need some sort of readjustment
training before they rejoin society. For Whitmore, freedom meant
ultimate doom.Politics is also depicted in a negative way in this gritty film. This
is a memorable viewing experience for audiences.

******
9 April 2009
10
'The Shawshank Redemption' is the best film ever made in the history of
world cinema! The Best Hollywood Film Of All-Time! A Masterpiece! A
cult classic! A legendary Epic! A Film that you moves you, leaves you
stunned!Performances: Tim Robbins is astounding, his careers finest after
Mystic River. Morgan Freeman is masterful, his careers finest after
Million Dollar Baby. Others are excellent.'The Shawshank Redemption' is cinema at its very best. My salute to
this flick! A true Masterpiece! I just love this film! The most
powerful film of all-time.

******
11 February 2006
10
The Shawshank Redemption is the BEST movie of all time for many
reasons. The first reason being that Morgan Freeman did his best acting
job, and that is saying something. Freeman is the greatest actor of all
time. Secondly, Tim Robbins gets so into his part you feel like the
story is totally true and you are actually seeing it first hand. The
supporting actors are wonderful as well. Enough about the acting which
was second to none but the story was so compelling. The audience feels
sympathy for the main character and wishes for him to be redeemed, in
the end its just a feel good story. I cannot express this enough, GO
WATCH THE MOVIE NOW! It is awesome and will never be topped.

******
7 February 2006
10
I can watch this film a hundred times and still enjoy it. Morgan
Freeman is one of my favorite actors. And this must be his best roll
ever. I thought Tim Robbins was definitely at his best in this film.
All the prison guards and inmates were really believable. The story
captures you from the beginning and doesn't let go until the final
credits are rolled. This is the kind of film that make you think of how
many inequities must exist in our prison system that no one ever hears
about. Of all the the movies of this type the Shawshank Redemtion
brings to light how good and evil can exist in every situation. And
that nothing is black and white. But until it effect you its out of
sight and out of mind.

******
4 February 2006
10
This movie takes you through the life of some inmates of Shawshank
prison. A very moving story.One of the best stories I've had the pleasure of seeing in a long time.Normally, I don't go out for these types of movies (sci-fi/classic
horror fan). This one really surprised me. I actually didn't see it in the theater, but caught it on TV, then
rented the movie. I've since bought it and have actually watched it a
few times, which is rare for me to do. I usually watch a movie once,
then not again for at least 6 months to a year.This movie will one day be a classic in my mind.Enjoy!

******
31 January 2006
10
This film is, love it or hate it, flawless. I find myself unable to
pick out any one element of this movie that was poorly executed or
inconsistent. The Director, Frank Darabont, despite his
much-less-than-impressive filmography successfully animates every scene
and character in living detail. Whats more is the life and detail he
brought to his screenplay.Originally published under Richard Bachman, Stephen King's
once-pseudonym, "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" is one of
the most miserable short stories ever hacked out by any desperately
uninspired fiction author in history. The book makes no attempt to
build or define characters, background, or story progression. It
basically apexes around the one scene in the prison theatre where the
writer clumsily tries to convey the point of the book: as hopeless as a
man's situation is, his dreams and fantasies live on. After King's
catharsis he seemingly looses any real interest in his story and
apathetically caps it off several pages later.Frank Darabont not only masterfully directed this film but deserves
much more credit for crafting 95% of this movie purely from his own
imagination and being able to construct a very tangible plot line from
complete tripe. Credit where credit's due, Stephen King doesn't even
deserve royalties.

******
31 January 2006
10
For it's subtlety, it's intelligence, and it's gorgeous cinematography
(often overlooked in this film), this is one of the finest films ever
made. Robbins and Freeman are brilliant. The rest of the cast flows
through the storyline with a poise and cadence that is flawless. The
story itself is based on a short work by Stephen King, but the
screenplay is sculpted perfectly and gently into a full-length film by
Frank Darabont. A powerful story of one man's journey through a
punishment he did not deserve, and "redemption" of soul that lifts the
hearts of viewers. It reminds us that "hope is a good thing, maybe the
best of things". Gentle and supremely smart.

******
30 January 2006
10
Where to begin on how to comment on one of the most beautiful,
haunting, tragic yet slightly comical films in creation? This film is
absolutely groundbreaking and deserves its place amongst all the greats
of Cinema History. Complete with an amazing cast, a wonderful
soundtrack and a storyline that will leave you mesmerised for years
after your first viewing, this film is truly incredible.The film focuses on a man called Andy Dufresne, an intelligent banker
who is accused of murdering his wife and her lover, and is
consequentially sentenced to two life sentences in Shawshank Prison.
Andy soon befriends a man named Red, a man imprisoned for murder, and
runs an underground syndicate to help his friends get a hold of things
from outside prison.Andy manages to help the guards of Shawshank Prison with their personal
financial problems using his knowledge as a Banker, and an unlikely
'friendship' emerges, and soon Prison life doesn't seem so bleak for
Andy. As Andy's journey through his life sentence grows, so does his
friendship with Red, and he soon discovers what effects the walls of
Shawshank have on the people in the prison after a series of unexpected
and tragic events.Andy's personality soon earns him new friends as he begins to change
people, fundamentally, without knowing how, as he spreads new lessons,
both comically and psychologically, and soon Andy turns into a much
more intelligent man than we may have realised him to be at first.As time goes on, Andy resolves to make Shawshank Prison friendlier and
he works relentlessly to improve life for the prisoners and for the
guards. But, as he continues to work hard for the good of others, he
begins to learn the shocking truths of what the true colours of the
guards and the Warden of Shawshank are. Revelations all come to the
fore when Andy discovers some information which may prove him to be the
innocent guy he has always claimed to be, and Andy's life takes a
serious turn, and the consequences are dire for everybody as Andy's
decisions become more and more unpredictable.Based on a short book by Stephen King, this film has hardly any faults
at all, and is full of beauty, tragedy and comedy, and has a haunting
presence as Morgan Freeman gives what is possibly the best performance
he has ever given, and Tim Robbins excels as the tormented Andy. But,
what makes this film go down in history isn't just the amazing script
and the wonderful acting, but the film contains one of the most
beautiful Soundtracks I have ever known, written by Thomas Newman. Many
of the tunes are simplistic, yet very memorable, and they all perfectly
reflect the dilemmas and situations the characters of the film find
themselves in.This film is not afraid to shock people with its subtle shifts in the
personalities of characters, and how a situation of comedy and hope may
suddenly change to a tragedy beyond what you may have originally
expected. This film is a true classic. This is a work of art which is
endlessly re-experiencable with painful pleasure.

******
27 January 2006
10
After watching this movie i was stunned at how great it was. It was the
first movie that kept me hooked the whole way through and had
everything in it. What made it better was seeing how it was expanded so
well from the original short story, which again was very good. How
anyone can say it less, must not have been watching it properly. There
is nothing to say to criticise the movie, the acting was brilliant, the
casting great, and the directing, breath taking. But we can not
overlook the great writer who brought this story to life, Steven King.
Without having writers like him, we would never have any movies to
match up to the likes of Shawshank and Godfather. I am still waiting
for another movie to knock it off the top of my top 10 list, however, i
am doubtful if this will ever happen.

******
18 January 2006
10
This majestic movie is about Andy (Tim Robbins), a banker wrongly
accused of murdering his wife and her lover after discovering she had
been cheating on him. He gets impounded with two life sentences in the
Shawshank Prison. There he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) who befriends
him, and as the story moves along slowly, he eventually understands
what Andy once told him: "Get busy living, or get busy dying."Andy is persistent in his quest to be free. And he tries to convince
Red during the entire course of the movie that hope is indeed a good
thing, even in a prison like Shawshank. In his endeavor, Andy will come
face to face with the warden, who is truly a manifestation of greed
itself. Many challenges will test his mettle.This piece of art is not to be missed; it is one of the greatest works
of modern drama. And the slow pace of the movie only helps further to
sink you in its mood, and leave you satisfied with a strange bitter
sweet feeling in the end.

******
9 January 2006
10
I saw (once again) last night "Shawshank Redemption". If I have seen it
once, I have seen it fifty times and never does it ever get tiring to
me. Stephen King wrote a story which becomes one of the great classic
movies of all time. "Shawshank" is a story of a wronged man who overcomes the injustices of
life, love and prison to remain the true person he always was. Andy,
although a solitary and enigmatic person, finds himself through an
injustice which throws him into a quagmire of human refuse. In this
refuse he finds a few pieces of humanity which lets him know there is
hope. Red is one of those humans. Upon realizing that he is about to
fall into the hell of prison obscurity, Andy releases himself and
escapes from the injustice of his current "human" existence. I use the
word EXISTENCE for the whole movie is a work of existential survival. This is a movie that NO ONE should miss.

******
3 January 2006
10
This movie surprised me so much I watched it twice in one day the first
time I saw it. Sure I hadn't just picked a movie at random, at the
local DVD-shop, but I didn't expect it to be so good. After I watched
it I had a look on the IMDb website and was surprised once again that i
found it placed number 2 on the top 250 movies list. I wondered to
myself, why didn't I know about this movie. Afterall Morgan Freeman and
Tim Robbins are quite well-known actors. Frank Darabont however only
just caught my attention in 1999, when 'the Green Mile' was released.
Finally I came to the conclusion that it must have been either
television, because it surely isn't on television often enough, or it
could just be me, not knowing very much about the film-world before
1995. For in fact, everyone in my school seemed to have known 'the
Shawshank Redemption' for a very long time. "One of the best movies
ever", my best friend said, "My favorite movie in the whole wide
world", another one of my friends. THEN WHY DIDN'T YOU TELL ME!!!! I
replied. If you liked 'the Green Mile', I'm telling you now, you'll
love this!!!

******
9 August 2012
10
this film is an award winning achievement i loved it what a fantastic
and brilliant together drama and crime movie really really amazing a
must see to everyone.the story is about a guy called Andy Dufresne who
was sent to prison for a murder that was committed to his wife and Andy
goes through prison with hard times and a friend for his time in the
shaw shank prison with brilliant ac tining from Tim Robbins Morgan
Freeman and Clancy brown throughout the film Tim Robbins was Andy
Morgan freeman red and Clancy brown as the guard.overall the whole
truth can not be told u will love this film don't spoil this for your
self its a brilliant story with friendship and survival 10/10 you must
get this on DVD trust me its brilliant

******
17 December 2011
10
I'm a 290 pound, mean-looking dude, but I cried like a baby watching
this movie.This is a masterpiece in American story telling.Every scene builds up the tension.Every dialog adds depth.Every central character makes sense.The ending makes you smile.Tim Robbins' and Morgan Freemans acting is simply outstanding.
Throughout the movie, you feel you get to know their inner thoughts,
their longings, their fears. FANTASTIC! MARVELOUS! INGENIOUS!

******
14 August 2010
10
I don't write film reviews normally, but this is no normal film. i
never tire of watching the Shawshank redemption not because of its
sheer brilliance but because of all the intertwining emotions portrayed
by the characters.The film begins slowly but Andy Dufresene (Tim Robbins) has a strange,
intriguing style unfamiliar with that of a normal inmate jailed for 2
life sentences. As the film progresses it's almost like you know the
characters and you're part of the gang with Andy and Red. you feel
andy's tenacity as he battles for whats right. As you begin to relate
to Andy's feelings you are reminded why he is there: found guilty of
murdering his wife and her lover. So when the 'new boy' clears his name
there is a huge relief, almost like a maternal feeling of 'i knew it'
As the film builds towards the end you cannot know what is about to
happen and when it does.... wow; brilliant ending. brilliant film

******
18 April 2009
9
I feel sorry for all of you , guys/girls who rated this as 1 star
(awful). I really do not think you could consider this as the worst or
one of the worst movies you have ever seen. Maybe it is overrated, maybe not , but STOP trying to lower its
position in the Top 250. This is supposed to be a USER RATING , so if
you loved it , give it a 10 , if for you it is an average movie , give
it a 5. I read some comments about this one , and heard someone saying : " ...
it is a good movie, deserves 6 or 7 stars , but i gave it 1 star
because I think it is very overrated ... " That's so pathetic ...Once again , STOP doing this and rate the movie as you liked it !

******
14 February 2009
10
Shawshank Redemption!!!! First time when I heard this name I had no
idea what Shawshank is all about. I must accept the fact that I was not
fascinated by its name but luckily I managed to see this movie. This
movie is awesome it will fill you with hope when you start loosing hope
at some point of time in your life. That's the power of this movie. I
have seen this movie maximum number of times as I have not seen others.
Story goes this way:A man who was wrongly convicted murder of his wife and her lover. He
got two life sentences back to back. He felt that he might not be
proved good husband but he was not a murderer so he started planning to
dig the tunnel to be free from this. The way he dig the tunnel and the
person who helped him in his project was the crux of this movie. So it
was his hope that was kept deep inside his heart that provide such a
power to escape from the Shawshank.Please rent the DVD and watch it. you will surely find it most amazing
movie as you have ever witness.

******
3 October 2008
10
This is one of those films that come once in a blue moon. The ones that
leave you sitting on your seat staring at the screen when the film is
ended and trying to think of a word to describe the excellence of the
film Although Shawshank does take a while to get started, but you understand
why later on the film. The characters need to be explained for you to
understand later points in the film. What really makes this film great is the use of no special effects, no
stunts, just plain simple amazingly original,witty story writing and
outstanding acting by every character in the film including the minor
ones. Just based in a prison, men talking to each other. This film does make you feel involved in the film. You feel every
characters emotions and pain and share their joy and happiness. When
the film ends it takes you 10 seconds to get back to reality again -
its just that compellingBest personal Film of all time and best film on IMDb and rightly so
Spectacular Film !

******
2 January 2008
10
This film is a truly awesome film once i had started watching the first
10 minutes of it i was addicted to the TV and could do nothing but to
watch it. This story is about a respectable banker (Andy Duframe) who
is sentenced to Shawshank prison for life imprisonment for a crime he
did not commit. Once he arrives at Shawshank he soon starts to learn
that the prison mentally takes your life. However, Andy seems very
unusual being very quite and polite around the prison. At the
spectacular climax at the end of this film it just gives the viewer
such an amazing feeling of hope and in my opinion this is the best film
every made. A must watch film!!! 10/10

******
12 December 2007
10
It was the film that never seemed to have a break cut out for it.
Adapted from a Steven King short story (usually a sure sign of
success), yet a disappointment at the box office. Nominated for seven
Oscars, yet emerging with no wins. But, hope sprung eternal, and, as
life began to imitate art, like its central characters, the film The
Shawshank Redemption overcame such initial adversity to become one of
the most revered and cherished films of all time. Director/screenwriter Frank Darabont, working from Steven King's short
story 'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption' brings the tale to
life in a superbly powerful and emotionally flooring fashion.
Darabont's script executes the incredibly difficult task of speaking
directly to the human spirit, with its tale of passion and dedication
overcoming captivity and adversity. Few modern films are bold enough to
tackle such shamelessly inspirational themes as Shawshank's without
coming across as painfully clichéd, but Darabont's airtight script,
chock full of timeless lines, and steady, careful directing are enough
to raise the film above such concerns, instead marking a film of which
the emotional magnitude is seldom paralleled. From Roger Deakins'
sweeping, operatic cinematography, to Thomas Newman's truly beautiful
and inspiring musical score, to the dank, gritty realism of Shawshank
prison itself, the film's consistent quality on all fronts is truly
stunning. It is easy to see a story such as this easily falling flat with an
inferior cast taking on the material, but Darabont's incredibly gifted
and memorable cast is truly up to the challenge, taking a wonderful
story and making it truly timeless. Tim Robbins truly brings
unconventional convict Andy Dufresne to life, never without a
passionate twinkle in his eye, even in his most beaten down and
hopeless of scenes. Rather than typical leading man grandstanding,
Robbins is wise enough to remain subtle and detached throughout, making
the role all the more mysterious and endearing as a result. The
inspired casting of Morgan Freeman as fellow inmate 'Red' resulted not
only in a series of sumptuous voiceovers by one of the most melodious
voices in Hollywood, but also in a genuinely heartwarming supporting
character, with Freeman building a career of playing similar 'wise
mentor figures' off his performance. The supporting cast being
comprised mainly of relative unknowns strengthens the believability of
their characters, leading the audience to see them as their character
and not as the star behind the role. Bob Gunton is chillingly effective
as the hate-inspiring prison warden, infusing more menace into his
reedy voice and deadpan stare than any scenery chewing antagonist could
capture. Character actor Clancy Brown also crafts another simple but
effective antagonistic role as the captain of the guards. Gil Bellows
is a strong presence as a rebellious inmate, and James Whitmore is
charming and lovable as aged prison librarian Brooks. Overall, The Shawshank Redemption is an astonishing accomplishment,
addressing shamelessly uplifting themes in a fashion which is
sentimental, but never sappy, larger than life, but never melodramatic.
In many ways the film feels like a throwback to the days of classic
cinema where directors strove to make films which made their audiences
happy, but Darabont easily dodges contemporary scorn by unabashedly and
honestly pitching the film towards the human spirit, and firmly
establishing it as a timeless classic with its impeccable package of
flooring technical work, screen writing and acting. Far from being a
simple "prison drama", the sheer emotional voyage of The Shawshank
Redemption is enough to drain any viewer, both crushing their spirits
then euphorically raising them in a truly peerless fashion. While Red
may declare hope to be a dangerous thing, it's Darabont's fearless
tackling of the tricky subject which really sets Shawshank free. -10/10

******
8 August 2007
9
The Shawshank Redemption has you hooked from the very first scene.
Although Andy's innocence was obvious from the beginning, you just
think how he's going to get out of it.For me, the power and depth in this movie was it's ability to make
prison life and friendships look better than that on the outside. Also
when they were finally released they were so hesitant to live on the
outside and wanted to go back in. I'm not sure why this affected me so
much but i think it's just the fact that one mistake forced these
people to live in a certain way where they don't want so much freedom
and they're used to being workers with no rewards. They just couldn't
adapt to the outside world. As if it were a different planet or
something.Although the men are supposed to be 'cold hearted killers', they seem
so nice and are so easy to sympathise with. I know it sounds lame to
feel sorry for a killer or thief but i think that the amazing story and
acting, had me hoping that all of the prisoners were innocent... except
for some obviously. Not to mention the guards were so mean and rude i
just wished they would all get punished and tortured at the end of the
movie.If someone can feel that passionate and involved in a movie the first
time they've seen it...i think it's a sign that if the person reading
this still hasn't...they should. The Shawshank Redemption most
definitely deserves its spot on the IMDb top #250.

******
29 May 2007
9
Out of the fertile mind of American author Steven King, comes the
incredible prison story called "The Shawshank Redemption." It is the
story of a young banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who has been
falsely convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. Sent to the
notorious Shawshank, Dufresne, is subjected to the standard abuses
every prisoner faces. During the ensuing years however, he is further
subjected to additional punishment by the "Sisters" who enjoy torturing
what they call 'fresh fish.' Still Andy tries to survive each day of
his sentence as best he can. Being extremely agile at his banking
craft, he overhears Captain Byron T. Hadley (Clancy Brown) complain of
his personal financial problems. This single incident allows Andy to
take advantage of his dire situation and become useful once again. Over
the years, he becomes friends with fellow convict Ellis "Red" Redding
who is adroitly played by veteran actor, Morgan Freeman. When warden
Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton) learns of Dufresnes' financial ability, he
immediately takes advantage of it. This arrangement presents many
financial opportunities for the brutal warden and the meticulous and
patience prisoner. Both can benefit from the outcome. The warden
intends to retire richer and Hope is the only benefit Andy ascribes to.
Be he has he has more talent than the warden suspects. With additional
characters actors like William Sadler as Heywood, Gil Bellows as Tommy,
Mark Rolston as Bogs and legendary James Whitmore who lends a superior
performance as Brooks Hatlen, this film is destined as a classic for
the enjoyment of every audience. ****

******
1 May 2007
10
I have never commented on a film but living as movie lover, a great
movie lover, I've always been seeking for finest fine movies, movies
that can't be forgotten, that would give a meaning to me... The
Shawshank Redemption, it is a movie that I can't say anything about it
else than powerful, well-made and meaningful to me, as God as my
witness, to this moment I haven't seen any movie better than that ...
It was recommended by a dear friend of mine but I never took seriously
until I watched the first thirty minutes of it, then I regretted that
I've never attempted to watch it before that moment Hope, something
good never dies, I have hope that I believe in, and I believe that
someday that hope will get me through life... The Shawshank Redemption,
gives hope and that's enough for a movie... I don't have that great
knowledge of movie, but I do believe that this is one of the finest
movies that were ever made...

******
15 December 2006
10
This is the #1. Absolute must see film of the 1990s, Our Generation,
anyone's lifetime and quite possibly the history of film. Hope and
perseverance are front and center as themes in this blockbuster. Anyone
of any age any race either sex and any religion should see this and I
promise you'll wish to share it with everyone you know. Don't think
"another Prison Movie" about-this one, it's above and beyond that
cliché. Expect career performances from Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins,
Bob Gunton, and James Whitmore. Along side many outstanding character
performances from the supporting cast. I Cannot emphasize-the
importance of this film. I personally thank Everyone involved in
producing such an enormous telling of Steven Kings masterpiece. It has
become a source of daily inspiration for me and I continue to watch it
Several times a year to this day. thank you.

******
1 December 2006
10
in my opinion ,it's better than the ordinary Monte Cristo story that we
all know as the greatest escape tale , so this time the escape is
greater! and the hero is an ordinary man , who is so patient and
hopeful, while you watch the first few minutes of the film you may
think that it's social or silly story, but minute by minute you will
recognize that you were wrong, it's a Brilliant Story,a never seen
before , a very powerful drama .. the best thing in that movie was the
relations between characters,like hating,and true friendship like the
one which was between Tim Robins and Morgan Freeman,I like this movie and i advice every one on the planet to watch it as
soon as possible....

******
27 March 2006
10
The Count of Monte Cristo isn't a very good book, and has spawned a few
pretty poor films, but it's the ideas which make it an enduring story.
Now whether Stephen King was consciously inspired by Dumas's
("Dumass's") book when writing the original short story I don't know -
what I do know is that Frank Darabont took a dour, typically
coarsely-detailed potboiler and evolved it into something special. The
big step for me, was that having taken an interesting idea and made it
good, Darabont then found an ensemble cast and a cinematographer who
could make it sing. I don't think there's a dull line of dialogue in
the movie, and barely a camera shot either out of place or wasted. Why
it is that equally talented filmmakers can spend millions and produce
the kind of mindless gibberish which actually wins Oscars (like
'Braveheart' did in the year 'Shawshank Redemption' was nominated) I'll
truly never fathom. Maybe there should be another way of formally
recognising talent: wait ten years then take a vote - that way the
mindless and the popular will have time to find their level and what's
left is worth remembering.

******
11 March 2006
10
In my opinion this is the one movie that is absolutely the greatest the
first time you watch it. It's probably my favorite movie. It may not
have the replay value of some of my other favorites but, the first time
you watch it when you don't know what is about to happen, is the
probably the greatest thing you can experience in terms of movies. I
only wish could I forget it so I could watch it again for the first
time. As a matter of fact if I ever suffered complete amnesia there
would be at least one definite benefit. I am not going to talk about
the ending and for god's sake if anybody puts a spoiler warning on
their comments do not read them!

******
1 March 2006
10
I didn't see the film in the cinema, because I was too young at 14,
though when I did rent it on video, and subsequently DVD, it was and is
still to this day the best movie I have ever hired out, and Now I have
the DVD with all the extras it makes a truly memorable film that much
complete. It's true what they say about this having an impact on
people's lives as it did me. From the moment it starts and you start to
hear the narration of Morgan Freeman you know there is something
special to this film.The films message of hope even in the most dark situations hope can be
our salvation and it is so true. The film is put together perfectly
what brings the film together for me is Morgan Freemans voice it's so
powerful, in his acting on screen in the film as well as his narration.There are two best scenes for me most powerful is Reds 3rd parole
hearing it sums up total acceptance of what he's done and he can be
open to them about how he truly feels without a care or worry in the
world. The second is when Red finds the Box under the Oak Tree and the
whole story seems to come together at that point. The way time
progresses is an essential aspect in this film and that's another
excellent example you see of Andy and the Warden almost becoming
partners in crime and they develop this close bond. Prison Drama? No
that description doesn't give this film justice it's a pure masterpiece
and if you haven't seen it I would advise buy a copy now you won't be
disappointed. Even after 50 or so viewings I still get a lump in
throat.

******
9 February 2006
10
This is the best movie robbed of acclaim. I don't care what anyone says
about Forest Gump. This movie is better in almost every category except
music and maybe tied for movie of the year.Tim Robbins acting is as good if not better than Hanks. I always have a
problem with the simpleton character getting acting nods, as with the
white trash and ghetto thug characters. I think most of us can all do
the Gumpy Slow Hick voice ala Cleatus the Slacked Jawed Yokel
(Simpsons).I can't quite remember how many Oscars Gump stole from this GEM of a
movie, but this movie blows me away on almost every level. The quite
passion the Robbins portrays is surpassed by no one except maybe the
Freeman sidekick character.This movie was of course a short story made into a movie (S King i
think) and because of what it delivers i truly believe it to be the
best movie of 1994, and probably one of the top 3 movies of all time.

******
1 October 2005
10
I knew about this movie for a long time.Heck, prison movies, don't turn me on so I have very negative
impression, hence not watching it. I watched it today (Oct 2005) as it
was on TV, and I thought, it's got good rating, so I'll watch it, least
this way I won't be watching it alone. Might as well get it over with.Well, any movie than can render a grown adult to tears and whirl up an
emotional minefield, has to be respected. This movie has my utmost
respect.This is truly a great film, even with all my negative baggage, and
seeing clips, and reading people raving about it, I still avoided it.To render a grown man to cry even with all the baggage, has to be a
really amazing film.This film transcends cinema, to what it's truly about - to move you. So
technically, it's pointless, you can go about actors, direction, shots,
music and so on, and to analyse this film purely on that level would be
one very stupid mistake. A mistake many have used while writing
reviews.The book or film, is simply a mechanism to get a message across, it can
be flawed and still work perfectly. That's not the point.The message here is clear and works perfectly, on many unconscious
levels, it really would be stupid to try an figure it out.You can't as its so simple.We all have hope dreams and desires, and want freedom and a better
future. Every person does. It's actually why we exist.Not to have hope, dreams and desires and goals, is truly not to live.
Not doing so, there is no meaning to life.No matter what happens, keep positive, have hopes dreams and desires,
that is your purpose here on this planet this is what this film is
about, everything else is just mechanics to get this across?Are you Positive?Do you have hopes?Do you have dreams?Do you have goals?Have you helped your fellow man, just for the beauty and pleasure of
making someone happy, in a totally unselfish way, without any personal
gain?If you haven't and don't have hopes, dreams, desires and goals, you are
not alive, you have no meaning to your life.In conclusion, you can avoid this film as long as you want like I did,
but when it does catch up with you... you better be ready, very ready.If you aren't or don't understand what you are watching, and what
really is going on between the lines and mechanics of the imperfect
mechanism of cinema you are dead, truly dead, and you might as well end
it now.So my advise to you?Don't Watch this film. If you've read this far, and not got what I've been going on about you
are a lost cause already, and you might as well go into your miserable
life, and causing misery to yourself and others. Heck, it'll take you
several lifetimes probably to get it.So, remember DON'T WATCH THIS FILM, you don't deserve it.

******
24 November 2001
7

This movie is good, there's no question about that, but he 2nd best ever?
That's a bit of a stretch. I can't really imagine that all of those people
who gave this movie the 9 and 10 votes have seen very many other good
movies.  Sure, the story is meaningful and it's harsh etc, but there are
so
many movies that are moving and powerful.  The fact that Shawshank is #2
on
this list is a reflection of those voting. 

******
7 July 2001
10

This is without a doubt my favorite movie. Every time I see this movie I
feel touched by its magic. Most of my friends have seen it because I
have recommended them to do it and they have all loved it.Robbins, Freeman and Whitmore's characters are the ones that I like the
most.It is just stupid, unfair and shameful that this wonderful movie was not
awarded neither at The Oscars nor The Golden Globes. The IMBD voters have
it
at #2. My hope is to see it in the future at #1.

******
8 April 1999
10

The first time I saw this film I said those three words a lot to my friends
and family. Shawshank Redemption is the BEST FILM I have ever seen in my
lifetime. I have seen tons of films. Morgan Freeman gave a performance that
will touch anyone's heart. From beginning to end this film shows how films
should be made.

******
26 December 1998
10

Great music, superb actors. It is a pity that Forrest Gump (which I
consider another masterpiece ) went out the same year and got all the
publicity, as well as the Oscars.
It was not fair.The only reason for which I rented this movie, two years ago, was because of
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. But it was a big surprise to see one of the
best films ever made. ( I have seen it 6 more times since then
)It is a story of COURAGE, PERSEVERANCE, TRUE FRIENDSHIP, HOPE AND
REDEMPTION.IT'S A MOVIE FOR ALL TIMES, A MEMORABLE ONE.
EVERYBODY SHOULD SEE IT. YOÚ WON'T REGRET.

******
6 August 1998
10

My favorite movie ever.  These are words that basically describe how I feel
 about this movie.  A prison drama does not sound like an entertaining movie,
 but this is very entertaining.  Tim Robbins (The Player, I.Q.) stars as
 Andy Dufresne a smart man convicted of killing his wife and her lover.  He
 arrives at Shawshank prison completely out of place, but adapts and becomes
 best friends with one of the prison's head convicts, wonderfully played by
 Morgan Freeman (Driving Miss Daisy, Seven).  Soon the warden, played by Bob
 Gunton (Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, Broken Arrow), enlists his
 help as a banker, to help with getting some extra (illegal) money and other
 things.  It doesn't sound like a great movie, but trust me this is the best
 movie I've ever seen, and everyone I know liked it.  Tim Robbins is great
 in the lead.  Bob Gunton is good as the twisted warden.  William Sadler 
(Solo, Die Hard 2) is solid as a fellow convict.  Clancy Brown (Starship
 Troopers, Highlander) is excellent as the sadistic head of the guards. 
 Finally, James Whitmore (The Relic) and Gil Bellows (Snow White: A tale of
 terror) give the best supporting performances as fellow convicts.  A must
 see. 

******
17 February 2011
9
None of the usual otherworld creatures that populate the works of
Stephen King are to be found in The Shawshank Redemption. But the real
world of that Maine prison has some bizarre rules of its own and
there's a whole new reality within those walls.In the tradition of Cool Hand Luke and Birdman Of Alcatraz comes Tim
Robbins who was a banker on the outside, but when he caught his wife
cheating on him with a golf pro from their country club, he's convicted
of putting eight bullets in them, four apiece and tried and sentenced
to two consecutive life terms in Shawshank prison. Like Luke and Bob
Stroud he works out his own rehabilitation and rebels against the
prison system.He may be a con, but Robbins still has all his knowledge of finances
and pretty soon he's made himself quite invaluable to the warden and
the rest of the staff at the prison. At the same time he and the cell
block scrounger Morgan Freeman develop a close personal relationship.
In the end they beat the system in a most unique way.There have been some classic prison films made ever since The Big House
at the dawn of the talkies. Two I've already mentioned. My favorite
prison film is Robert Redford's Brubaker, but The Shawshank Redemption
comes pretty close. As does The Green Mile which was also directed by
Frank Darabont.Darabont got an Oscar nomination as did the film itself and as did
Morgan Freeman for Best Actor. The Shawshank Redemption was in for a
flock more Oscar nominations in 1994. A couple other good performances
are that of James Whitmore the institutionalized con who is there for
50 years and paroled and just can't make it on the outside. He will
break your heart as will Gil Bellows who plays a fresh, but rather
likable young con who runs afoul of the warden.Speaking of which Bob Gunton as the warden will positively chill you
with his corruption. You would have to go back all the way to the James
Cagney classic, The Mayor Of Hell where Dudley Digges was the warden of
boys reformatory to find a warden that is as sanctimonious and as
corrupt as Gunton. This is a man who gives Bibles out to each inmate
hoping that the reading of the Good Book will improve the moral fiber
of the convicts. At the same time he's raking in money every which way
he can and a rather special punishment is meted out to him by Robbins.The Shawshank Redemption may not have monsters and other worldly
creatures that normally characterize a Stephen King story. But the
world of Shawshank prison is bizarre enough for any normal person if
you see this wonderfully crafted and acted film.

******
28 March 2009
6
The Shawshank Redemption is one of those films that people either love
or  well, hate is probably the wrong word.It's an OK film, but lacks in so many areas, most of all script and
ideas. Yet again, we are subjected to an innocent man being sent to
prison, governed by a sadistic guard and corrupt governor. Yet again,
we see him get a glimmer of hope of release, and yet again we see hope
destroyed.It's not exactly original.But, it is well filmed, and superbly acted. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman played the lead roles to perfection. The surrounding parts were
played as equally well, and none let the film down. Pity about the
script.Don't get me started about the poster on the wall. All the searches,
and no-one took it down? Oh, come on.Watch the film  yes, even enjoy it. But please don't think it's one of
the best.

******
21 October 2008
10
I have seen The Shawshank Redemption twice now, the second time being
about a week ago. After the first time I saw it, I gave it a perfect 10
rating on IMDb, something I do very rarely (I've given out 20 ratings
of 10 out of the 600+ movies I've rated). However, after just one
viewing, I felt so impacted by this film that it immediately rocketed
near the top of my favorite movie list. After a second viewing, I feel
even more amazed by it than I was the first time I saw it. The movie captures your interest in the first scene and unfolds new
plot points and character developments slowly at first and then more
rapidly as the movie goes on. The movie runs about 130 minutes long,
but it never gets boring. While it is admittedly slow paced, this only
serves into its greatness. It allows the viewer to get to know the
characters of Andy and Red and sympathize with them; along the way, we
also get to know and grow attached to the other prisoners trapped
inside Shawshank. The movie flows perfectly from one scene to the next,
never feeling forced or losing your interest. The movie is mostly
dialogue driven, but there are some violent scenes which help convey
the brutality of prison life.Finally, the final 30 minutes are perhaps the most satisfying in any
movie. I do not want to spoil the ending for those who have never seen
it, but suffice to say, the final act of the movie leaves you floored.
Both times that I saw it, I was rooted to my seat long after the
credits rolled, just thinking about the brilliance of the ending and
the entire movie as a whole. Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction are both
great movies, highly entertaining. I particularly love Pulp Fiction;
however, it is a travesty that The Shawshank Redemption did not win
Best Picture. It was certainly the best film of the year in my opinion,
arguably the best film of the decade, and perhaps one of the finest
movies ever made. The even bigger tragedy, though, is that while Morgan
Freeman earned an Oscar nomination for his great performance, Tim
Robbins' turn as Andy Dufresne went without a nomination. Robbins
carries the film, and his performance is truly one of the greatest I
have ever seen. The bottom line is that The Shawshank Redmption is a perfect movie. It
takes you in from the opening scene and doesn't let you go until long
after it comes to a tremendous close. Along the way, it will make you
think, fear, wonder, and feel a number of other emotions. If you have
not seen this movie, waste no time; go rent it today and see why this
is the highest ranked film on IMDb.

******
21 September 2006
7
This is a good movie, and surely is right up there among the finest
prison/concentration camp depictions which almost ALWAYS have at least
competent quality. In my mind I compare this genre to
"submarine"-films: confined space, lots of guys under constant threat,
therefore drama and tension easily created without much sweat (ha ha).
But also with obvious problems in providing something new. The same
situations and characters are presented just from here to eternity, and
I rest my case with this movie in question as follows: despotic warden,
sadistic guard/s, evil fellow inmates who want to kill/rape you but
also few trusted friends (along with that one old timer and his
inevitable sad ending) and finally escape by the main protagonist who
of course has been convicted in the first place based on false
accusations or at least something not-so-bad crime.So what's so special here? 9.1/10, come on... Maybe the same tricks
worked here as in that other Stephen King's hit-penitentiary-drama "The
Green Mile", i.e. manipulative scenes and quickly identified cardboard
characters. Or maybe the majority of movie-goers consider what they're
watching at face value and never mind that "I've seen this all
before"-feel. Or maybe they haven't or just have a lousy memory? Yes I
admit, I'm something of a cynic. But I also believe I'm able to spot an
truly honest effort when I see one. Probably that's the reason why I
consider the grandpa of them all, Mervyn LeRoy's 1932 "I'm A Fugitive
From A Chain Gang" as the all-time best prison-flick. No film-snobbery
here, as I hope you'll agree when you see this true classic.

******
17 March 2006
10
After watching the shawshank redemption it left me with a true feeling
of hope. The whole film symbolises the idea that hope can get through
any challenge. I heard of this movie in the same way many other people
did, through a recommendation from a friend describing it as the best
movie he had ever seen. Even though I watched it with high expectations
I was not at all disappointed. If I could recommend anything from this
comment it would be to watch this movie. Its #2 in the top 250 for a
reason! The story the film revolves around and the relationship between
Red and Andy is truly amazing to watch but also is the way that each
time I watch the film I uncover new depth to it and new angles from
which to view the movie. There are many hidden references and ideas
that can be taken from the Shawshank redemption making it a movie that
works on many levels (this being a rarity for most modern
blockbusters).

******
16 March 2006
10
The Shawshank Redemption came out in 1994 and was an absolute flop but
found its real audience in home video, peaking as the most rented video
of 1995 in the USA. A wonderful film that takes you into the prison experience of
Red(Morgan Freeman) and Andy (Tim Robbins). Andy being a banker
convicted of murder and Red a murderer already serving time, this movie
takes you to the limits of human endurance, where the human spirit
eventually prevails. The TSR takes you on an emotional journey that you will remember for a
long time, thanks to the superb crafting of the film and sincere
performances by the cast. The score is deep and haunting, this film is
for the ages and will permenantly have a place in my heart. To me it is
the best film of the 90's and quite possibly one of the best of all
time.The fact that this film is sitting at No.2 is a testament to just how
many people love this film, many viewers seem to have an emotional bond
with the film, and I don't blame them. I only wish that I could view
the film for the first time again, and experience that redeeming
feeling Andy and Red experienced at the end.Ignore the hype surrounding the film and judge it on your own
experience, the last half hour are especially beautiful. Watch this if
you already haven't, and enjoy the masterpiece that Frank Darabont has
so gracefully given us the privilege of viewing. 10/10

******
23 January 2006
10
The greatest movie ever made..! Period. Pure and simple, it is what
every director hope to achieve. The film will keep you glued to your
seat if you know what it means.It will bring tears to your eyes. It
will make you think how you have lived your life so far...or in fact
how you have wasted it. It will teach you the value of freedom which we
enjoy without giving a second thought. And it will leave you with a
sense of happiness which you will experience only rarely. The
performances are simply mind boggling, be it Tim Robbins or Morgan
Freeman or countless others. And it is difficult to believe this was
the debut of Frank Darabont as a director.If you haven't already seen
it... please do, otherwise you are missing something.

******
7 March 2000
8

The redeeming feature of this film is that it was made in innocence. 
Darabont had no idea he was making anything profound.  And he wasn't.  This
is a film about a prisoner who ... well, I can't give away the plot, for
it's much better to come to the screen in ignorance; but anyone who thinks
that this is a story about how Andy `finds out the truth about himself', or
is in any way `redeemed', is grasping at straws.  These elements play so
little role in the overall structure that we might as well ignore
them.I have a theory: so many people have told Darabont that `The Shawshank
Redemption' was a profound life-changing experience that he believed them,
and then SET OUT to make another `profound, life changing experience' with
`The Green Mile', with predictably ghastly results.  I haven't seen `The
Green Mile' yet, so I can't be sure.Don't get me wrong.  A great movie needn't be profound, and the film which I
think is the best ever made isn't profound, either - it contains no comment
at all on the Nature of Human Existence or anything of that kind.  Still,
`The Shawshank Redemption' isn't even great.  It's a very good story very
well told.  Lucky we get such nice photography, rather than having to put up
with Stephen King's prose every step of the way ...  Also, Tim Robbins has
the lead role.  (Lucky, again, that it wasn't Tom Hanks - now THERE'S a
frightening thought.)  Nobody can do the bewildered but intelligent innocent
so well as he can.  Fans make such extravagant claims about this movie, but
I don't think it makes such extravagant claims about itself, which is why it
works so well.

******
29 July 1999
10

By far Shawshank was the best film of 1994. But look who it was up against
at the Oscars...Forrest Gump. It's not that Forrest Gump was such a horrible
movie as alot of people make it out to be, in fact it was good. But it was
also a very hyped movie. The public ate it up, and they also got too much of
it. That might be the reason everybody on the internet seems to hate it so.
But to say Forrest Gump is better than the Shawshank Redemtion is a far cry.
I wish the Oscar's didn't do this all the time. They vote on who they think
the public wants to win it seems like sometimes. It was robbed. But that
doesn't make it any less of a film. It's a triumph of filmmaking. Robbins
and Freeman are excellent. The character Brooks is terrific, and the warden
is protrayed perfectly by Bob Gunton. Go rent this movie, if it's the last
thing you do. The ending is one of the most satisfying in movie
history.


******
12 May 1999
10

Truly a masterpiece of cinema.  I hope this film gets the critical
recognition it deserves as the years go by.  Almost everyone i have
encountered has loved this film.  How did it not win oscars galore.  Tim
Robins and Morgan Freeman are simply perfect in what is essentially a love
story.  A love of hope, a love of friendship and a love of life, no matter
the constraints.  I LOVE THIS FILM!

******
22 August 1998
9

This was a very good movie.  Robbins and Freeman are Terrific.  It was a very
moving movie.  I would strongly recommend this movie. 

******
25 September 2009
7
Shawshank Redemption (1994)The short of it: I asked some students what their favorite movie was,
and some of them (many of them) said, "Shawshank Redemption," and I
said, "I haven't even seen it." And they assigned it to me as homework.
I started watching, and after about twenty minutes I realized I had, in
fact, seen it before.That's how memorable it was for me.I also see that Shawshank has the highest user rating of any film on
IMDb. What do these other intelligent, movieloving people see that I
don't? I wish I could know, but I can't except by reading their
comments. And here, then, finally, is mine.First of all, I don't think it's a terrible film, despite all the
picking I do. I'm trying to be analytical. But when I take one aspect
and think about it independently, and compare it to other movies I
like, it starts to look weak for specific reasons, which is good to
know. Please don't read further if you just want a confirmation of why
this is a great film. In brief, I don't think Shawshank probes,
invents, or seduces aesthetically. It's just a nice story well told.First, that story. Stephen King is a successful writer, to say the
least, and a really good "wordsmith." His stories work with simple
conflicts, and they are plot driven--one thing happens, another thing
happens, a third thing is almost necessary to have happen, a twist, a
turn, and always, from what I can tell, a nice wrap up. That's pretty
much the plot in Shawshank. There is almost no depth to the
characters--they are stereotypes, not made of foamcore maybe, but
flimsy. There is the evil warden, of course. There is the thoughtful
black man who everyone likes, played by Morgan Freeman (who narrates),
and the thoughtful white man who doesn't like anyone (at first), played
by Tim Robbins.Of course, it goes from there, but really, the "twists" are old ones. The plot is the framework for something I found more irritating, and
that was a slightly glib tone. The story was not really "realistic" in
any sense, though the trappings of actual prison life are all there,
from rape in the back room to corruption in the front office. Maybe as
a "fable" it can get away with its airiness, right up to the final
happy ending. It might not need any grounding in reality. As a fable it
would naturally avoid complexity, or even anything independently
interesting. What I mean is, maybe the journey through these familiar
clichés, done with a fuzzy, congenial ease, is self-satisfying on
purpose. And therefore Shawshank Redemption is heartwarming and
enjoyable, to use two words that are as exciting together as milk and
warm.But it was this breezy tone that made it unwatchable for me. I had to
fastforward through a few parts in the second half (it was my second
time seeing it). It seemed that nothing happening! Nothing I hadn't
seen before in other movies. It struck me not as mythic or spiritual
(those are words people use) but as false, as anti-meaningful because
it's obvious, familiar, comforting.The film-making? Let's tick off some basics. Editing: conventional, and downright slow. You can argue the pace was
leisurely and luxurious to draw the viewer in. Or you can say it's
drawn out and sluggish.Music: functional and familiar, "movie music" pure and simple, in its
lush seduction, which is offputting once you pay attention to it
directly.Script: hmmmm. The writing is not distracting or "bad" especially, but
that's hardly a recommendation. It gets the information across. But
really, read some lines, repeat a few scenes out loud. There are those
now famous lines, about everyone being innocent and so on, but most of
the movie doesn't crackle--even other Hollywood heartwarmers like Die
Hard have more inventiveness. Isn't Shawshank presenting Hallmark
sentiments?Acting: exactly what the film needed for its pace and intentions. No
faulting Freeman or Robbins there.Photography: professional. If there was a movie crying out for some
great filming, this is one, with a great interior to exploit and some
good night scenes. But the camera work is functional, with a few
moments of higher drama (the prisoner getting shot from above, the
escape sequence). But look how often the scenes are just filmed
"nicely" so that we enjoy being there. Maybe this is the idea, to be
caressed and not assaulted--it's not an action adventure film, so I
don't expect to be shocked. Direction: finally, the lynchpin person here needs to be accountable.
Oh, I'm sure Frank Darabont doesn't mind the cult status of his movie,
but he probably knows he is no auteur, but rather rode the coattails of
a lot of talented craftspeople around him. But those other people all
had to count on him to ask for (and deliver) something with more
originality, beauty, surprise, depth, and compactness than the
Shawshank we have. It's not a shame, obviously, that we have what we
have, because so many people love it, really really love it. I didn't
care for his other well known film either, The Green Mile, and so
again, it's just what you want from your two hours of absorption.But it brings me back to where I started, which is to realize that
there are all kinds of viewers, and movies to match. This one didn't go
the places I need a great movie to go. It's not a bad movie, not at
all. In fact, this might be a classic example of a movie being much
more than the sum of its parts. But, still, even the whole strikes me
as flip and easy-breezy, obvious as child's lie. It is content to be
superficial, and I, personally, am not.

******
18 March 2007
7
The amazing thing about this film is how many people fail to realise
that the film is about Red, not Andy. It's Reds perspective of Andy. I
only mention it because many people strangely think its told from the
perspective of Andy.That common misunderstanding behind, a well made film. The photography
is magical, the story is strong, the performances are exceptional and
the depths of despair and humanity of canvassed well without losing
mainstream appeal.But that aside, there is a strong willingness to overstate this film.
In the end, it is a slightly overdone and there is a bit too much
'triumph of the human spirit' dribble on the side. But I don't let that
get in the way of what is otherwise a very good film with
re-watch-ability.Hadley's release from prison and letter deserves a spot in cinema
history. That part was absolutely exceptional.

******
6 February 2006
10
'The Shawshank Redemption'... hmm where do I start. 'The Shawshank
Redemption' is clearly one of the greatest films ever, I find that it
really can show what it would be like trapped in a tiny little prison,
eventually you would only think of what's outside the prison instead of
inside or you might even become attached to the prison or should I say
home.What the audience really enjoy's about this movie is that you have been
deceived for you believe through out most of the movie that there is
noway out for poor Andy Dufresne and that he is trying to be nice to
the guards for a chance of believable. After that you discover that the
whole film and everything that has happened has all gone towards the
escape of Andy Dufresne and the suicide of the dreadful warden. The
audience has been gullible enough to believe that Andy was getting used
to the prison. 'The Shawshank Redemption' is clearly not just a movie, it is also
beautiful art. Every little piece of the movie was delicately put
together to create pure yet daunting art.The story is about Andy Dufresne a wealthy intelligent banker who's
wife is having an affair with another man. Eventually both the wife and
the other man are killed while having sex, with all evidence pointing
to Andy, Andy is sentenced to two life times of prison. In prison Andy
does a lot of the workers at the prison's (and that include's the
warden) banking. From then of the story is all about Andy in the prison
and he idea's of hope and love of music.One of the most beautiful and touching moments in the movie is when
Andy locks all the doors in the room that has the microphone and plays
opera music of two Italian women singing opera in Italian. Morgen
Freeman then say's that he had no idea what the two Italian women were
singing but doesn't want to know, he just like to imagine that the
words were too beautiful to be sung in English.The acting is brilliant and the directing is directed absolutely
unbelievably tremendous. I praise both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins
for a very touching movie that I will always remember.In conclusion, 'The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest films
ever that I have ever seen, if you do not like it I will also
understand that you didn't listen closer to the brilliant word that
were able to come out of the actors mouth.Hope is a dangerous thing.

******
4 February 2006
10
Emotion, hope and justice all blend perfectly in this film. Quite
simply, no other film comes close to this one in regards to screenplay,
casting and plot development. No spoilers here - just a comment on a
movie that can still move you to tears even after multiple viewings.
Morgan Freeman delivers the performance of a lifetime. Everything else
comes together in perfect harmony. This movie came out the same year as
Forrest Gump which won the Oscar for best picture - Forrest Gump is a
great picture but this one really deserved the "cake". Tim Robbins is
AMAZING as Andy, and he supported brilliantly by a cast that one could
only hope to see assembled again. This is one of those rare occasions
where the movie actually surpasses the book for drama, suspense and
flow. If you haven't seen this film, please do yourself the favour and
watch it. I know you will not be disappointed!"Get busy livin'"

******
8 January 2006
10
Let me tell you a little story. I am 17 years old and consider myself
an avid movie buff. From Braveheart to American History X to Pulp
Fiction to Schindler's List to The Matrix, I thoroughly enjoy watching
and talking about great movies. After being desensitized by the poor
gore-fest known as Hostel, I came home and watched this movie with some
friends. Let me tell you that this is one of two movies I can think of
that has made me tear up. I don't do it often, and I certainly wasn't
expecting to tonight. But the Shawshank Redemption tantalizes your mind
and touches your soul. It is a triumph of motion picture and tonight
became of of my top five favorite movies of all time. Please go see
this in its entirety if you have not.

******
1 January 2006
10
Shawshank is one of the only movies I have ever scored as 10 out of 10.
I had read the Stephen King short long before I saw the movie, and
loved it, but had no idea going into the movie that it was the same
story. Halfway thru the movie I finally put two and two together and
almost jumped out of my seat at the theater to say "OMG, I love this
story!" Fortunately I managed to resist and hide the fact that I'm
totally freaking insane for at least one more day...But I digress. The movie stars Tim Robbins as Andy Dufraine, a man
convicted of murdering his wife. He is sentenced to life at Shawshank
prison. Although convicted of the same type of brutal crime as his
fellow inmates, it quickly becomes apparent that Andy is an oddity at
Shawshank. Highly educated, quiet and philosophical, Andy is initially
a source of curiosity and unease to his fellow inmates but is soon
befriended by Ellis 'Red' Redding, played by Morgan Freeman, and
quickly becomes one of their own.Without giving too much away, the movie follows Andy's life in prison,
as narrated by Freeman, as he finds a way to both survive and hold on
to a shred of his humanity in a place that seeks to rob him of both.
Andy learns, for example, to bargain with what he has (i.e. his
financial knowledge) for what he needs. Initially, many of the things
Andy acquires during the course of the film seem to have little value,
but you realize by the end of the film that what he has asked for has
had value beyond measure, both in the pragmatic sense and in a deeper
philosophical sense.The movie is at its core an exploration of what it is to be human. It
is about loss, regret, perseverance, friendship, and ultimately, faith.
How do we deal with the mistakes that we have made in life? How do we
recover when life beats us down? And how can we seek strength in our
connections to others? These are all ideas that Shawshank looks at. It
is alternately funny, tragic, violent, and inspirational. Probably one
of the best stories King ever wrote and without question one of the
best films ever made.

******
14 September 1998
10

Not only is this film one of the most touching I have ever seen, it also
 has one of the most unexpected and inspiring endings I have ever seen.  The
 bond that grows between the two main characters is unforgettable and the
 score is the best I've heard

******
7 August 1998
10

      This movie is one of those ones that makes you think really deep about
 life, your life!  
      Morgan Freeman makes us feel the sadness and Tim Robbins, the faith, in
 a dark atmosphere.

******
17 April 2009
10
Shawshank Redemption is without doubt one of the best films ever made,
and definitely the best film of 1994. Yes, it is better than Lion King,
and I really like that too. It is not only enthralling but powerful and
moving too. I will confess that I didn't understand it when I first saw
it as a lot happens in the film, and I have now seen it three times. I
seriously hope, that those who ignored the film when it was first
released now recognise it as a great film, as it really is. The
dialogue was extremely well-written, with lines that really stick in
your mind. The cinematography and music are both gorgeous, and the
prison itself is like a character that dominates the film. In the
script, there are some true elements of Stephen King Now I admit I am
not a huge king fan, and usually don't like coarse language in books.
But in his books like It, which is very good, I have accepted the
language represents brutality and rebellion, shown perfectly in the
film with the battle of acceptance I suppose between the inmates and
the superiors(like the scene with the warden yelling coarse language at
the new inmates lined up in a row at the beginning.)The acting was
exceptional. I am not hugely familiar with Tim Robbins, but he did a
great job in a very demanding role. The best performance however, comes
from Morgan Freeman as Red, who was seriously robbed of that Oscar,
that he lost to Tom Hanks for Forrest Gump. Freeman reminds me very
strongly, or his style of acting does, remind me of that of Sean
Connery, suave yet very charismatic. Acting isn't just about your vocal
range, it's about depth, which was what Freeman certainly had. In
short, Freeman was brilliant in what could be his best performance. The
scene where the inmates are listening to the Mozart aria over the
speakers was a beautiful profound moment, and I actually cried in
Brook's death scene. Very rarely do King adaptations translate-to
screen well, because of the large scale of the author's books, with the
exception of this and the Shining. Some like It and Dreamcatcher are
genuinely memorable but have a number of flaws that prevent them from
being classed as outstanding. And some, like Thinner and Tommyknockers
that border on unwatchable. In conclusion Shawshank is a brilliant
film, that is worthy of the credit it has been denied for so-long.
10/10 of course. Bethany Cox.

******
31 January 2006
10
In this review I'm not going to give a plot synopsis of this film
because I'm sure everybody else who has commented on it has. However, I
will express the positive effect it can have on the viewer if they let
it.The acting is uncommonly magnificent. Morgan Freeman delivers the
greatest performance of his brilliant career as the seasoned
life-serving prisoner Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, Tim Robbins holds his
own against Freeman as Andy, the central character, James Whitmore's
portrayal of the institutionalized Brooks provides the backbone of the
story, Bob Gunton is wonderful as the corrupt Warden Norton, and Clancy
Brown's commanding performance as Captain Hadley, the sadistic head
prison guard, almost makes him steal the show from Freeman.Frank Darabont's restrained direction of the delicate story is critical
for the film to not become sentimental or clichéd, and his beautiful
adaptation of the Stephen King story on which the movie is based is a
real breath of fresh air. On account of Darabont, the film shows that
special effects are not needed to tell a great story in film. As a
17-year-old male, I love special effects movies as much as the next
person, but they get boring after a while. Plus many people forget that
there was a time in cinema when the blockbuster didn't exist, when they
made movies that just told great stories and gave the audience a chance
to be uplifted by those stories without the creators having to resort
to special effects. I applaud you for having the guts to make a
non-commercial film that reminds people of that in this day and age,
Mr. Darabont.SPOILER ALERT! As with all truly great films, 'The Shawshank Redemption' is full of
scenes that have become entrenched in the public's collective
consciousness. There's the scene where Andy plays the opera record over
the loudspeaker for all the inmates in the prison, Captain Hadley
bashing "Fat @$$" to death for crying during his first night in prison
(a very powerful scene), Red giving his "Rehabilitated?" speech to the
board of parole officials, the Warden getting his final judgement, and
of course, Andy crawling to freedom through what Red in his narration
calls "500 yards of s**t-smelling foulness I can't even imagine,", the
scene which for me is perhaps the greatest movie scene of the '90s.END OF SPOILERS! I thoroughly recommend this cinematic masterpiece, which has earned its
place in my humble top ten films of all time list, to anybody. Whatever
gender, age, religion, nationality etc. you are and whatever language
you speak, I guarantee it will change your life, or perhaps even save
it. Movies like 'The Shawshank Redemption' only come along once every
decade, if that. Unforgettable.10/10.

******
2 March 2016
10
Only a few words come to mind....one of the best movies made in my
lifetime. Amazing all star cast. Emotionally charged Well acted Well
written Well directed Great score Keeps you engaged throughout You fall
in love with the characters. Morgan freeman is phenomenal. It makes you
realize how important and precious life is. It also teaches how power
can be corrupt. The friendships forged in the story are very well
crafted by the actors And through plot development. While the main
focus revolves around Andy's character played by Tim Tobbins, you are
easily affected by the side stories of those that become part of his
world. All in all it is an ultimate feel good movie...an ultimate rise
of the spirit in the face of tragedy and life dealing you a bad hand of
cards. One of my top 5 movies of all time!

******
16 December 2015
10
When I saw that this movie was top of the IMDb top 250 charts, I was
quite intrigued and wanted to watch it right away, and it didn't
disappoint.The IMDb summary of the movie was quite misleading. I thought it'll
just be about the friendship of Andy and Red and I was loving the movie
when the real meaning of the movie came forward. It was not just a
prison movie. It was a prison break movie. What a lively ending. When
you see a film, you somehow anticipate that some twist is going to
happen. Like the movies with crazy twists are generally thrillers or
dark films and you know the twist is coming, but you are just eager to
know what it is. That is not true with this movie. I would never in my
right mind even imagined that there could be a twist to this movie. It
is such a simple beautiful movie and then BANG!In closing, I just want to quote Andy from the film"Hope is a good thing Red, maybe the best of things. And good things
never come to and end"BRILLIANT!

******
10 December 2015
10
This movie has been rated number one by IMDb for a reason. Why? What's
not to like? It has everything. Crime, drama, romance, some comedy. The
writers were very well set on what they wanted. They achieved it. One
can watch this movie over and over. Every time I watch, I notice
something new that I had not noticed before. This movie is very well
written. This movie is very well produced. This movie is very well
acted. This movie was very well financed. They did not need to use too
much money to produce it however, one would never know. Yes. It's that
good. This is definitely a movie that belongs on your shelf or in your
movie collection. It's rated number one for a reason. Anyone who rates
this below an eight, doesn't really know what a good movie is about.
The way it's written, directed, acted, financed, produced and acted. If
I had three thumbs, the would all be up. So, three thumbs up. If you've
never seen this fantasias film, you're missing out. It's a must have.
Enjoy.

******
6 December 2015
9
Le Lorem Ipsum est impalement Du flux Dexter employé dawns la
composition et la muse en page avant impression. Le Lorem Ipsum est Lew
flux Dexter standard Dee l'imprimatur depose Les Anne's 1500, qua nd UN
Pinter antonym Assembly ensemble Des Margeaux Dee Dexter pour realizer
UN livery specimen Dee polices Dee Dexter. Il n'a pas Fiat Que surviver
cine sickles, Mai's s'est Aussie adapté à la boutique informative, sans
Que son continua n'en soot modifié. Il a été popularisé dawns Les
Anne's 1960 Grace à la venter Dee fellers Letraset con tenant Des
passages Du Lorem Ipsum, et, plus recommend, par son inclusion dawns
Des applications Dee muse en page Dee Dexter, Commie Aldus PageMaker.

******
4 December 2015
10
This was one of the best movies I have ever seen in my entire life!
This is real entertainment!!!! I enjoyed the entire story from the
beginning to the end and I would watch this movie everyday all day
because it is very outstanding compared to other movies of this age.
There must have been so much work put into this production and I don't
know how the actors could have performed so well!!! I have to say, I
will recommend this movie to everyone I know and I won't resist the
fact to talk about this movie all day! This is one of my most favorite
movies of all time, o compare it to the shining and the godfather, but
the shaw shank redemption comes a out on top!

******
4 December 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption stands as a truly great film. It is not an
action movie, so time is taken to set up the characters. Based on a
short story by Stephen King (which is truly extraordinary), the plot
follows a man wrongly convicted for murdering his wife. The rest of the
movie follows his time spent in Shawshank Prison. Written for the screen and directed by Frank Darabont, this movie
turned out to be a box office flop; ironically, it went on to become
one of the most rented movies of 1995 (similar to It's A Wonderful
Life). And since then, it has become the top rated movie on this
website. This movie is not action packed, but it is packed full of emotion.
Beware of watching it: you may become addicted to it. And that is a
good thing.

******
4 December 2015
10
This movie...where to begin. Well it's hard to believe that when I sat down to watch this movie,
that I was expecting a grim depressing movie, about how bad prison life
could be. The main reason I watched it was because I am a Stephen King
fan, and I heard this one was the best. So I sat down to watch it, and
I was fully prepared to feel depressed, and also sad. And when I
finished watching the movie, how did I feel...there is no way to say it
other than: The exact opposite. I felt uplifted, happy, and after
watching the ending, I simply said that this was one of the best movies
I'd ever seen. What I liked about it so much is mainly the plot, and the characters.
Andy Dusfrene, and Ellis 'Red' Redding are prisoners in the Eastern
Maine Penitentiary, known as Shawshank. Andy spends over twenty years
in the prison, Red even longer. And when I was watching I could feel
(even though it is not shown physically) the years passing. The movie
spends the first 3 quarters of the movie at the prison, and you really
get to know it, and it's inhabitants, very well. The character you get
to know best though is Andy. He is a quiet man who keeps to himself,
but there is so much more to him then that. In the twenty years he
spends there he manages to earn the respect of his fellow prisoners
(particularly Red), the prison guards, and the cruel warden Samuel
Norton. Then one day he mysteriously disappears. Or to be exact, he
escapes, the first man to ever escape from that prison. It takes him
twenty years to deceive all the guards, that he is a quiet honest
person, that would never try to escape. During this whole time he was
planning his escape, right from the start when he asked Red if he could
find him (Andy) a rock pick. It took him twenty years to do all
this...hat's devotion if I've ever seen it, and that's why I loved his
character. Then there's the last 15-20 minutes of the film which take
place outside the prison. The last 5 minutes though, when Red (who is
also a fairly likable character) decides to reunite with the escaped
Andy, it becomes very emotional, and a truly beautiful piece of cinema. So people say this is the best Stephen King adaptation of them all, but
I think calling this movie a Stephen King movie, is like calling The
Lord of the Rings a blockbuster trilogy, it just doesn't quite cut it.In fact I simply must say that this may just be the best movie ever
made. It has an excellent plot, gritty and realistic setting, a sense
of hopefulness (despite being a prison movies), extremely likable, and
relatable characters and an ending that can truly touch the heart and
soul of many viewers. It is absolutely 10/10

******
2 December 2015
9
This movie really displays how horrible life in prison was in the
1900s.The guards, the warden, the facility itself. It just feels so
real and almost scary for the watcher. I gave this movie a 9/10 because I found that it captured almost
everything I find important in a movie. I also just love everything
from Stephen King and this truly is, his masterpiece.You really get pulled into the story as it goes on and understand the
thoughts and feelings of the main character.Brilliant actors, a great director and of course the man to thank it
all for, Stephen King.

******
2 December 2015
9
Stephen King does create wonderful short stories and while I think his
books are hardly manageable on the silver screen I think his short
stories are. Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank redemption is the perfect
example. With a great cast and an intriguing but not overly complex
story this film has everything it needs to be a masterpiece. The actors
have great chemistry together and while I don't appreciate the changes
that were made, I do understand them. The director caught the feeling
of the short story and created a believable experience. Some of the
scenes are light hearted to an extent were you expect them to be free
the next moment just to tear down this scene and show the degrading
brutality of prison.

******
30 November 2015
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty
-- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the
subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving
life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off The
story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest busload of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy
turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him
is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing
seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for
murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details
involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality;
all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who
is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes
up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his
term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been
rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out
of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that
he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills
himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on
the outside.

******
30 November 2015
8
It's about the redemption to the prisoner. Or to everybody in the
world. Whatever,whenever,wherever,people would make something mistake
can't hand on.People always try to control everything but things always out of
control. The Shawshank Redemption had many things out of control and he
try.We know it ,but we can't stop to trying to do that.And I think I write something wrong words. Not spell English well,but I
try. First time use IMDb, first time use English web-page.Thank you

******
30 November 2015
10
This movie is one of those you need to watch, if you think you know
society. As the plot grows Andy becomes the center of attention for the
prisoners and warden. Finally having the chance to be free, it is
ripped from him in a shocking discovery, he really didn't kill his
wife! The Shawshank Redemption gives an ode to movie viewers and enthusiasts
since the film is based on a true story. Liken the film to war veteran
on the verge of escaping his enemies stronghold after years of
captivity. Finally as Andy tunnels, and climbs his way to freedom, he
gets the sweetest satisfaction of knowing he can now start his life
again.

******
30 November 2015
10
The review may contain spoilers!! The Shawshank Redemption is a movie
that everyone will surely enjoy. The movie begins with a slow pace and
as time passes you begin to love the characters and in the later part
of the movie you wish it goes on and on. While watching the film, you
expect a different type of ending(kind of an ordinary one). But at the
end you realize that this is not an ordinary movie. The movie contains
a very good message for all of us. The kind of patience and hope that
Andy has is simply brilliant. Morgan has done a good job too(as usual).
He has done his role as "Red" with complete dedication. The dialogues
and background music help you to get completely involved in the movie.
There are two scenes which leave you with an awe! The first one is when
Andy gets out of prison by travelling through the drainage pipes and
then enjoys the rain falling on him. And the second one is at the end
when Red is released from the prison and Andy waits for him at a beach.
My favorite dialogue is "Remember Red, Hope is a good thing, maybe the
best of things and no good thing ever dies."

******
29 November 2015
9
The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest bus-load of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods. But Andy
does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy turns out
to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him is such a
powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing seems to
break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for murder.
He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details involving
his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality; all that
counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who is not --
and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes
up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his
term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been
rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out
of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that
he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills
himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on
the outside.Red's narration of the story allows him to speak for all of the
prisoners, who sense a fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives
the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is
not violent, just formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob
Gunton), he is both a challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about
bookkeeping and tax preparation, and before long he's been moved out of
his prison job in the library and assigned to the warden's office,
where he sits behind an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's
ill-gotten gains. His fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes
and pension plans for most of the officials of the local prison system.There are key moments in the film, as when Andy uses his clout to get
some cold beers for his friends who are working on a roofing job. Or
when he befriends the old prison librarian (James Whitmore). Or when he
oversteps his boundaries and is thrown into solitary confinement. What
quietly amazes everyone in the prison -- and us, too -- is the way he
accepts the good and the bad as all part of some larger pattern than
only he can fully see.The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison
drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence,
riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason.
The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption, by Stephen King, which is quite unlike most of King's work.
The horror here is not of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that
flows from the realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have
unreeled in the same unchanging daily prison routine. The director,
Frank Darabont, paints the prison in drab grays and shadows, so that
when key events do occur, they seem to have a life of their own.Andy, as played by Robbins, keeps his thoughts to himself. Red, as
Freeman plays him, is therefore a crucial element in the story: His
close observation of this man, down through the years, provides the way
we monitor changes and track the measure of his influence on those
around him. And all the time there is something else happening, hidden
and secret, which is revealed only at the end."The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may
have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it,
and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There
is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But
mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal
worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a
sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption.

******
29 November 2015
10
One word Masterpiece. I have never seen such an amazing film since I
saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships,
hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about the movie is
that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even though the circumstances
between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't
feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
28 November 2015
10
1 no movie.... shaandar, zabardast, zindabaad.......... gajab movie....Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and
eventual redemption through acts of common decency.....1 no movie.... shaandar, zabardast, zindabaad.......... gajab movie....Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and
eventual redemption through acts of common decency.....1 no movie.... shaandar, zabardast, zindabaad.......... gajab movie....Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and
eventual redemption through acts of common decency.....1 no movie.... shaandar, zabardast, zindabaad.......... gajab movie....Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and
eventual redemption through acts of common decency.....

******
25 November 2015
10
One of the finest films ever made, this movie is a sheer work of art.
It's a poignant story of hope. That's what makes this film much more
than just a movie. It tells a lesson about life. It's a narrative about
freedom, friendship and patience. The Plot is average, but the
story-telling, acting and cinematography are the reasons that make the
movie, memorable. The director Frank Darabont has been flawless with
his work. The story is about Andy Dufrane (played by Tim Robbings
through the eyes of Red (played by Morgan Freeman, in his best role
ever). Andy is wrongly imprisoned for 20 years for the murder of his
wife. The story focuses on Andy's relationship with "Red" Redding and
his attempts to escape from Shawshank. Although nothing much happens in
the way of plot for 2hours, in a movie having a playing time of 2hrs
22minutes, you would never get bored. I won't give any spoilers, in
case you haven't seen it yet. Just go and watch it. You will not be
disappointed. There is no way, it is highly overrated. Its topmost
position in IMDb ratings is the evidence.
---------------------------------------------------------------------"All men die, not every man truly lives."

******
23 November 2015
9
The first time I saw Shawshank, I loved it and didn't want it to end. I
remember that desire being surprisingly powerful, despite understanding
that I had enjoyed it as much as I did while watching it. Its power
surprised me because I didn't understand fully how or why I felt the
way I did. On subsequent viewings, I prepared myself for the ending,
for THAT feeling, which I began to examine. I would describe it as something on par with the end of a relationship,
if not perfectly in scale, then certainly in context. A good
relationship. One that ends too early, but does so because it must,
because that is just how it is sometimes. I am always struck with a
deep yearning to see more, to know and feel more, but also a comfort.
That even though I didn't get everything I wanted, what I got is a damn
sight good enough, and I should be grateful for that. But it aches,
too. And then you realize that it's over, and you're going to wake up
tomorrow, and start living your life again. But now you'll live having
gone through this, with this perspective, this story in your memory. It's small, not actually the same experience, but it's close. The same
shape and color. No other film, no story, gives me this feeling. And
just like in relationships, sometimes I end up watching nothing but
disappointing titles, I have a moment when I ask myself why I do it.
That maybe I'm wasting my time. And then I remember. And then I hope.

******
22 November 2015
10
In my opinion, The Shawshank Redemption is truly the greatest film ever
made. The acting is on par and the directions is pretty darn close to
perfection. The Shawshank redemption is one of those films that is
designed to make you think, and boy does it do its job. The screenplay is possibly one of the greatest ever scripted. The way
it cleverly weaves in and out is extraordinary. Stephen King should be
proud that a film like this originated from his book. The Shawshank Redemption is the perfect movie. I don't think anyone
could give it lower than a 7. The film will appeal to anyone, if not
everyone, and will leave you vey satisfied long after the credits roll.

******
17 November 2015
9
What can be said about Shawshank that hasn't already been said, I'm
going to keep this review short and light as so many reviews have been
published for Shawshank Redemption.Shawshank Redemption isn't my favourite film, nor is it in my top ten,
but it is a movie that needs to stay at on IMDb's top spot because it
deserves to be, more so than my favourite movies, the soul reason for
this is that it is rarely hated, I've personally never met one person
who dislikes it. Some movies like 'The Godfather' which I find
extremely overrated just wouldn't satisfy me being #1; neither would
'The Dark Knight'.Shawshank Redemption is a beautiful story which has been directed,
produced, and acted flawlessly. It's a movie that you can really relate
and connect to, and has one of the best endings I've ever seen.You don't know cinema until you've seen this beauty.Shawshank Redemption: 9/10

******
9 November 2015
10
A film based on Stephen King's novella that rightly drew a global
audience and a credit to all those involved.A plot that was well set out and professionally engineered to maximum
effect, Frank Darabont again laying out new ground rules for others to
follow. A story of Andy Dufresne sentenced to a term in Shawshank Prison for
murder, a shame such a good film received such poor ratings from the
press. the film was a masterpiece and so deserved the multiple Oscar
nominations.With such a great line up including Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Bob
Gunton, William Sadler, Clancy Brown, David Proval, Gil Bellows, Mark
Rolston, James Whitmore, Jeffrey DeMunn, Larry Brandenburg, Neil
Giuntoli, its no wonder this fill many years after its launch is still
drawing audiences. a job well done

******
20 September 2015
10
Greetings from Lithuania.It is very hard to call "The Shawshank Redemption" (1994) a
masterpiece, but it is a definitely one of the most inspiring and
beautifully crafted picture off all time. That said, i won't going into
details, as plot and everything about this movie is so well known. To
simply put, this is a story of two men in prison sentenced to life time
and their journey to redemption. Seeing this movie ~ 5 times in my life i can say that when some time
passes, you kinda feel a need to re-watch it again, because this movie
is like a journey itself, with characters drawn so sharply that we do
care about them and the outcome is one of the most powerful and hope
inspiring there is. I brake every single time when watching sequence
when Brooks gets out of prison and the whole sequence of living free -
it is a powerful film making so say the least.Overall, No.1 at IMDb Top 250 says a lot - this is a movie that stays
with you and inspires you not to lose hope. It is flawlessly paced - at
running time 2 h 20 min it never drags - it should be studied at film
making universities HOW to create a film with no women characters, when
action takes place inside the prison and there isn't mainstream action
at all. Good things never get old, and "The Shawshank Redemption" is
one the fainest examples.

******
14 September 2015
10
Putting yourself mentally where no one can get to you mentally. Now
that's something to pull off for ourselves in a daily life habit. The
pressures in a prison are a great deal more concerning than a day to
day grunge and nose to the grind stone. Timothy Robbins does amazing in
his role in this Movie and the support of friend made of Morgan
Freemans character, solid. It really had me pulled in from beginning to
end. getting more review lines in can give me an opportunity to be
chatty, sure. But sometimes a movie is just a must see. The less you
say. The simplistic thought of conveying there is always something more
found the second time around. There's much to catch. If it's on my
watchlist I've seen it and will watch it over and over.That's a great
way of putting it together in wording for me.

******
13 September 2015
10
Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and
eventual redemption through acts of common decency.heres a ordinary film about a prison where the whole place become the
most important character in this movie it cast a long shadow over the
film with high walls on every shot with that the characters in this
film play their part well a small film that garnered 7oscar nominations
has gone on to legendary cult status on DVD and number 1 on IMDb
success didn't come it easy like the life sentence handed down to two
men who becomes friends so we see this prison as amazing architecture
so we see Morgan freeman character red seeing the the see new meat come
into his yard set in the 40s Andy dufresne quiet man who is young a
successful banker who finds who has being wrongly committed of murder
or framed for his wife's death Tim Robbins plays the character well
like cream rising to the top waiting for his chance of redemption he is
strong character helps in her as fear in there can be smelled a mile
away he meets his new family and the guards Clancy Brown ... Captain
Hadley / and governerWarden Norton / who likes to run the place
efficently but takes no s**t but as red is the the fixer who can get
everything dufresne is an unusual like unconventional prisoner he love
hope but blots out the outside world his music in his heart in prison
you can get touched but nobody can touch your music the strength is
that friendship anywhere can stand the test of time even 20 years on
the inside with the gurards knowing the need help with their finances
he starts his business up in the prison so he keeps the appearance up
that everything is not what seems he helps get the prisoners drinks
while helping with the roof and overhearing prison guards problems plus
keeping them on side when he complains about that he need help in his
office he gets his mates starting a business in the jail with the
accounts with a old inmate Brooks Hatlen played by a great actor James
Whitmore showing what life has done for him .when Andy makes complaints
to the prison about a library and letters to the prison board he keeps
getting rejected but as dogged as he was with all the time in the world
he keeps doing it until funds come in to open a proper library in a
prison the first of its kinds but the fixer gets Andy things for him
that has questions for Andy but no never shows his poker face plus
fouling everyone Andy lets out music into the fellow prisoners much to
the the disgust of officers who let Andy away with allot including
posters i wont give away the climax of this film as its exhilarating as
faith hope selfless and carefree who sees away about life Andy does it
deserved Oscar and got none as Andy learned were there a will there
away of not fearing of high wall but freeing ones hope of life thats
better than being framed but conspiring against ones who persecuted him
revenge is sweet As Andy says, "It comes down a simple choice, really.
Either get busy living, or get busy dying." life is a beach or so they
say

******
12 September 2015
10
An amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and
definitely one of the top "prison" movies of all-time. Pretty much
everything about this movie works and works extremely well! The film
touches upon many subjects, including the ideas of hope, redemption,
love, loneliness, justice, life/death, friendship, endurance, fear,
patience, inspiration and so much more. Watching this movie always
makes me feel a million times better, and if that's not the greatest
reason to watch a film, I don't know what is. Give it up to both
Freeman and Robbins for completely engulfing their characters with
heart, soul and the spirit of humanity. I appreciated the message in
this film, I absolutely loved the way it ended, I surrendered to its
pace, I enjoyed all of its characters, I thought it was wonderfully
photographed, I loved the score and I could seriously watch this movie
10 times a year and not bat an eyelash the whole way through.

******
12 September 2015
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty
-- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the
subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving
life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off
despair.The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest busload of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy
turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him
is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing
seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for
murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details
involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality;
all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who
is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes
up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his
term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been
rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out
of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that
he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills
himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on
the outside.Red's narration of the story allows him to speak for all of the
prisoners, who sense a fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives
the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is
not violent, just formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob
Gunton), he is both a challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about
bookkeeping and tax preparation, and before long he's been moved out of
his prison job in the library and assigned to the warden's office,
where he sits behind an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's
ill-gotten gains. His fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes
and pension plans for most of the officials of the local prison system.There are key moments in the film, as when Andy uses his clout to get
some cold beers for his friends who are working on a roofing job. Or
when he befriends the old prison librarian (James Whitmore). Or when he
oversteps his boundaries and is thrown into solitary confinement. What
quietly amazes everyone in the prison -- and us, too -- is the way he
accepts the good and the bad as all part of some larger pattern than
only he can fully see.The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison
drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence,
riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason.
The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption, by Stephen King, which is quite unlike most of King's work.
The horror here is not of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that
flows from the realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have
unreeled in the same unchanging daily prison routine.The director, Frank Darabont, paints the prison in drab grays and
shadows, so that when key events do occur, they seem to have a life of
their own.Andy, as played by Robbins, keeps his thoughts to himself. Red, as
Freeman plays him, is therefore a crucial element in the story: His
close observation of this man, down through the years, provides the way
we monitor changes and track the measure of his influence on those
around him. And all the time there is something else happening, hidden
and secret, which is revealed only at the end."The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may
have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it,
and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There
is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But
mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal
worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a
sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption.

******
9 September 2015
10
The movie is about an imprisoned man who finds solace in the rarest of
places and makes him deal with the harsh truths of life in a hostile
environment.The movie grips you from the start and by the end of it you
wonder of the innumerable things the movie relates to you with. The
actors justify their characters with some remarkably awestruck
performances with Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins to be some of the
notable ones. Frank Darabont depicts the writing of Stephen King quite
exceptionally with some amazing shots apart from a few glitches here
and there the whole movie just stands out apart from the rest of the
movies.

******
18 August 2015
10
it remained in the laptop movie folder for one and half
year.............. every time i started to watch it i felt bored for
the 1st 15 minutes....eventually i started to watch it more than 15
minutes for the first time............... then the miracle
happened.....i just finished watching this phenomenon in one sitting
with nearly grasping my breadth full with emotions ushering in my veins
and artery.......just on sentence requires to describe it """It is
worthy to be in the 1st place of the top 250 over 20 years and so
On,.......if you haven't seen it see it.if you haven't listened to it
hear it.if u haven't felt it yet feel it.

******
8 August 2015
3
This movie is a total piece of manipulation. It does have a few
redeeming features though - Morgan Freeman's narration all through is
pure art!!! This guy acts with his mouth!!! As a piece of fiction it
has some merit and I can see why many people would enjoy it. But to be
classed as one of the best movies of all time - really? C'mon!!!
Certainly the portrayal of the brutality of the guards during those
times I would say is fairly realistic.The one part of the story where an old timer gets released does ring
true. There are many people like that who are totally institutionalized
and do not have the skill to survive on the outside without a good
support network in place.This is a movie for those people who like everything laid out perfectly
for them and doesn't require any thinking. Personally I like a bit more
depth and reality.I don't want to put people off seeing it - it should be watched once.
But for me the flaws outweigh its redeeming features.

******
28 June 2015
8
In its Oscar year, Shawshank Redemption (written and directed by Frank
Darabont, after the novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption,
by Stephen King) was nominated for seven Academy Awards, and walked
away with zero. Best Picture went to Forrest Gump, while Shawshank and
Pulp Fiction were "just happy to be nominated." Of course hindsight is
20/20, but while history looks back on Gump as a good film, Pulp and
Redemption are remembered as some of the all- time best. Pulp, however,
was a success from the word "go," making a huge splash at Cannes and
making its writer-director an American master after only two films. For
Andy Dufresne and Co., success didn't come easy. Fortunately, failure
wasn't a life sentence.After opening on 33 screens with take of $727,327, the $25M film fell
fast from theatres and finished with a mere $28.3M. The reasons for
failure are many. Firstly, the title is a clunker. While iconic to fans
today, in 1994, people knew not and cared not what a 'Shawshank' was.
On the DVD, Tim Robbins laughs recounting fans congratulating him on
"that 'Rickshaw' movie." Marketing-wise, the film's a nightmare, as
'prison drama' is a tough sell to women, and the story of love between
two best friends doesn't spell winner to men. Worst of all, the movie
is slow as molasses. As Desson Thomson writes for the Washington Post,
"it wanders down subplots at every opportunity and ignores an abundance
of narrative exit points before settling on its finale." But it is
these same weaknesses that make the film so strong.Firstly, its setting. The opening aerial shots of the prison are a
total eye-opener. This is an amazing piece of architecture, strong and
Gothic in design. Immediately, the prison becomes a character. It casts
its shadow over most of the film, its tall stone walls stretching above
every shot. It towers over the men it contains, blotting out all
memories of the outside world. Only Andy (Robbins) holds onto hope.
It's in music, it's in the sandy beaches of Zihuatanejo; "In here's
where you need it most," he says. "You need it so you don't forget.
Forget that there are places in the world that aren't made out of
stone. That there's a - there's a - there's something inside that's
yours, that they can't touch." Red (Morgan Freeman) doesn't think much
of Andy at first, picking "that tall glass o' milk with the silver
spoon up his ass" as the first new fish to crack. Andy says not a word,
and losing his bet, Red resents him for it. But over time, as the two
get to know each other, they quickly become the best of friends. This
again, is one of the film's major strengths. Many movies are about
love, many flicks have a side-kick to the hero, but Shawshank is the
only one I can think of that looks honestly at the love between two
best friends. It seems odd that Hollywood would skip this relationship
time and again, when it's a feeling that weighs so much into everyone's
day to day lives. Perhaps it's too sentimental to seem conventional,
but Shawshank's core friendship hits all the right notes, and the film
is much better for it.

******
28 May 2015
10
Spoilers Ahead:What a powerful piece of work!! It it was all done without kung fu,
explosions, spitting and eternal fighting like movies twenty years
later. If only young filmmakers would imitate this masterpiece. Like
ALIEN, the acting carries the film. This film's acting is beyond
comparison; it has a great supporting cast featuring the always great
William Sadler. People just will never understand that you must have
character development with great villains like the warden from hell and
Clancy Brown's captain of the guard; who is a walking refutation of
Aristotle's idiocy that no one does evil for pleasure they only do it
because they mistakenly believe it to be good. It starts so slowly
building to a great denouement. The character development and the
acting are what you want to watch this for; this is from a bygone era
before we all went deaf trying to watch a film.The script is well written but without Freeman and Robbins the film
would have failed. This is the film that made Morgan Freeman the Icon
that he is today. Film buffs like me saw his potential in his earlier
bit parts in BRUBAKER and STREET SMART. His performance is the greatest
of his life; it dwarfs the overrated DRIVING MISS DAISY. This role is
far more complex; he emotes with his eyes and body language with such
ease. This is acting on the level of Marlon Brando. Again, the
villains, the warden and the captain, will make you hate them so
intensely you will love their just rewards at the end of the picture.
Brooks, the librarian, such a little sub story within the picture
shows, without being maudlin, the tragic fate of old prisoners who have
forgotten how to function on their own. He utters one of my favorite
philosophical axioms from the movie,"Get busy living or get busy
dying."This is why the film works James Whitmore a staple from Film Noir was
always a powerful actor. Bob Gunton, no matter how bad the movie, i.e.
BROKEN ARROW, is a villain you love to hate. Clancy Brown surpasses all
his other roles as the sadistic captain who enjoys hurting people. The
length of the film serves the script; the friendship between Andy and
Red is the core of the picture. It grows very slowly as each get to
know the other. Parents should be advised that like all of Darabount's
films it pulls no punches with violent, graphic realism. The cruelty of
the warden blended with his religion is of course a requisite for all
films made after 1990. Nothing those NEW AGE bring the light Nazis
demand more than all villains must be Christian religious fanatics. We
know all these positive energy sending fascists are all paragons of
virtue. I do not hold it against the movie; it is a sign of the intolerant
tolerance crusaders and their hilarious hypocrisy. You will adore this
movie. I watch it over and over. If you are religious like me, just
remember they have to attack a morality because they have none and are
filled with guilt. If it did not bother them so much they would not
attack it so mercilessly; I think somebody is feeling badly about all
the evil they are doing; what do you think?

******
21 March 2015
10
One of the greatest movies ever made. Shawshank tells the story of Andy
Dufresne, a banker convicted of his wives (and her lovers) murder. When
Andy comes across inmate Red, the two form a near two decade long
relationship. With Tim Robbins and Morgen Freeman in lead roles,
Shawshank is an absolute masterpiece that every film lover should
watch. Frank Darabont's directing is great and even more so than any of
his previous work. There's really not much wrong with Shawshank. The
adaptation from Stephen Kings epic novel is compelling, exciting,
disheartening and inspiring. With great supporting characters, an
incredible plot and stunning directing, Shawshank has become one of the
greatest movies ever made. Its an absolute travesty that this didn't
win the Oscar for Best Picture in 1994 although there was some stiff
competition.

******
18 March 2015
10
There are very few films that can simply blow a human being's mind away
but boy; Shawshank redemption does one hell of a job. From the very get
go, Shawshank will have you on the edge of your seats.Tim Robbins, a man whose career was on an initial down hill slide with
flops such as Howard The Duck redeemed himself and then some with his
portrayal of a man who looses everything in a second and then spends 20
years trying to get it all back. Robbins gave a calm misdemeanor to his
character, which always gave the impression that he had something
planned, that we were not expecting. Morgan Freeman gives, in my
opinion the best performance of his distinguishable career. He
maintains a streetwise wisdom and this, too me, makes him the "go to
guy" of the prison. His calm yet intelligent nature is kept through out
the film and does not seem affected by Andy but after the escape,
Freeman does superbly in showing the contrast in the streetwise dealer
of the prison to a man who misses his friend. Thomas Newman's
compelling score sets a dark and ominous tone and does what many scores
don't; it reflects the thought of the characters as opposed to the tone
of the scene. Darabont created a diverse prison world from the street
smart ones, to the homesick ones to the rapists but I was not a fan of
how racism was sidestepped in the movie. If I had one nit pick, and
this is scraping the bottom of the barrel; I would have expected a few
racial slurs directed at some of the prisoners, particularly Red. It
would have been true of the time but then again its not the point of
the story.Ultimately, Shawshank Redemption is a masterpiece and has a powerful
yet happy enough ending to touch the heart of anybody.

******
18 March 2015
10
Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free  These words
inscribed on the poster of The Shawshank Redemption sum up what's at
stake in Frank Darabont's chef-d'oeuvre. The Shawshank Redemption shows
us that there is hope even within the restricted walls of a prison.Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins)is a prominent banker wrongly convicted of
killing his wife and her paramour, who spends many years in the
Shawshank prison. He forges an unforgettable friendship with Red
(Morgan Freeman), a veteran of the penal system, who helps him to cope
with the frightening realities of prison life. While the prison walls
shield Red and the other prisoners from the depredations of an
ever-changing world, it has the exact opposite effect on Dufresne, who
exploits every possible opportunity to bring a taste of the outside
world to himself and his fellow convicts. Their bond forms the backbone
of the film.Tim Robbins is right at the top of his game as he paints a fascinating
portrait of an unjustly incarcerated inmate and brings an innate
humanity to Stephen King's principal character. Freeman is exceptional
as Red and his narrative much of which is taken verbatim from King's
story, holds the story together and like a skilled conductor, waves a
baton to orchestrate our emotions.Frank Darabont uses his powers as a supreme storyteller and an
astonishing craftsman to breathe life into a genre that I thought had
been dead since The Great Escape. He leaves us a poignant film with a
powerful message of hope, and redemption, masterfully told. The film's
greatest triumph is its earnestness that makes even those moments that
might have felt slushy, achieve the dignity of genuine tragedy. It is
deeper than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on
friendship and hope that can reduce the most hardened into misty-eyed
wonderment.The Shawshank Redemption warrants repeated viewing!

******
17 March 2015
10
I have seen the movie for the first time. It's a wonderful film with
excellent plot twists what gives a positive effect to the enjoying of
the movie. Things are happening you don't expect and that's good for a
movie. It's also a dark prison-film and i like that type of films. The
voice of Morgan Freeman is also very nice, and intimidating. The
IMDb-rating is very high. I think the movie deserves it, but i
understand other people who are thinking that this movie is overrated.
I think the reason why is that this movie has less haters then other
movies like Pulp Fiction, and so on... .One point can be better: the characters doesn't become older when the
movie progresses.But a well-deserved 10/10.

******
17 March 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is an uplifting, deeply satisfying prison
drama with sensitive direction and fine performances. Freeman, who is
simply a great actor, a man who has never struck a false note in his
career, both narrates this tale and anchors it with his authoritative
playing.A passing reference to 'The Count of Monte Cristo' offers a partial
clue to what makes this movie compelling.Top-notch performances, exceptional cinematography, and masterful
direction combine to make this film something special indeed.I love this film. It's a story about hope and dreams and one whose
emotional impact is as great as the Pacific Ocean is blue.http://www.quantumvisionsystempdf.com

******
15 March 2015
10
There's nothing in life more meaningful than endlessly talking about
movies, and there's no discussion as entertaining as fighting over
which was the best year for films. I always go for 1994, mainly because
it produced three movies that are truly unique and show up in every
best of list you can imagine. I mean, it's pretty tough to find a
person that doesn't have either "Forrest Gump", "Pulp Fiction" or "The
Shawshank Redemption" in their personal top ten. While the first two
movies still have a considerable group of opponents (to some people
"Forrest Gump" is too much of a tearjerker, while "Pulp Fiction"
apparently glorifies violence too much), "The Shawshank Redemption" is
one of those movies nobody can really dislike. It's a movie that goes
beyond matters of taste, the story, writing and acting are so
undeniably good that it's tough to come up with a counterargument.
Writer/director Frank Darabont is also a fantastic dialogue writer,
particularly when it comes to bit characters. You can also see this in
the somewhat inferior "The Green Mile", characters who only have one or
two lines say the perfect line on the perfect moment. The amazing
performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman do the rest. The best
movie ever made? It's definitely up there.

******
11 March 2015
10
Often said to be one of the best films of all time, I can't help but
agree. No matter how many times I watch this over, I feel like it never
bores me and I am always captivated in a way that I've never felt with
any other film before.The Shawshank Redemption is a tale of hope, courage and betrayal, seen
through the eyes of prison inmates 'Andy' played by Tim Robbins, and
older convict 'Red', portrayed by Morgan Freeman in an Oscar nominated
performance. The film is set over 19 years in Shawshank prison, and
depicts the life of Andy Dufresne, a hotshot banker and his struggle
with keeping his mind and his sanity, whilst serving time for a crime
he didn't commit. As Andy has to put up with harassment, distress and
affliction throughout the duration of his time at the prison, the film
illustrates a tale of eternal hope. As time slowly passes in the
prison, he's assisted by an older inmate by the name of 'Red' Redding
(Morgan Freeman), a black marketer who is 'known to locate certain
things from time to time'. As the years pass by, Andy's friendship with
Red grows and so do the hardships they have to overcome.The film itself has touched me in many ways, it shows me just what
people can do when they have a little faith and keep incessant hope no
matter what. Obviously, Stephen King's greatest and most memorable big
screen interpretation, one of which he is almost certainly proud of.
The movie is a timeless classic that speaks to me and probably a lot of
others on so many levels, providing a near perfect film with a great
plot line and representing a storyline with an even better message.Tim Robbins delivers an enthralling performance as the titular
character, one that certainly stands out throughout the film whereas
Morgan Freeman's interpretation of fellow convict Red is just as
captivating, earning him recognition from the academy but not his
fellow co-star Robbins, obviously yet another Oscar snub.Overall, the Shawshank Redemption speaks out to its audience, as it
shows a tale of perseverance and perpetual hope when in the midst of
the struggles in life. The film itself is possibly my favourite of all
time and manages to keep my attention on the 10th time of watching it.
A must-see for anyone who has a good taste in films and is looking for
a movie that will change their perspective on life and give them the
hope to pull through in the darkest of times.

******
3 March 2015
10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
3 March 2015
10
This is the best movie ever but I give you 15 Things You May Not Have
Known About The Shawshank Redemption1. It's Based on a Novella by Stephen King The film is based on Stephen
King's novella "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption," which was
published in a short story collection called Different Seasons. Two of
the other short stories in the collection were made into films, Stand
By Me in 1986 and Apt Pupil in 1998. Only one of them, "The Breathing
Method," has not been turned into a movie.2. It's Similar to Tolstoy King's novella shares several plot points
with a nine-page short story by Russian writer Leo Tolstoy called "God
Sees the Truth, But Waits." Both are about men sent to prison for
murders they didn't commit.3. Director Frank Darabont Got a Good Deal on the Rights to King's
Story He bought the rights from King for $1.4. It Almost Had a Much Different Cast Castle Rock Entertainment, the
studio that made Shawshank, was co-founded by Rob Reinerdirector of
another King adaptation, Stand By Meand is named after the mythical
Maine town that provides the setting for many of King's books. After
director Frank Darabont pitched Shawshank to the studio, Reiner
originally offered $2.5 million for the script to star Tom Cruise as
Andy Dufresne and Harrison Ford as Red.5. The Original Title Was Changed to Avoid Confusion Darabont wrote the
script in eight weeks before pitching it to Castle Rock Entertainment.
He decided to drop the "Rita Hayworth" part of the novella because
actresses sent their resumes in for consideration thinking it was a
Rita Hayworth biopic. During the casting process, Darabont even
received a call from an agent who represented a supermodel; he swore
the script was the best she had ever read and that she'd be perfect for
the (non-existent) part of Hayworth.6. It Was Filmed in Ohio Although the film is set in Maine, the Ohio
State Reformatory in Mansfield, Ohio stood in for Shawshank Prison. The
structure was slated to be torn down, but the production delayed the
demolition for a year. After the film wrapped, all the buildings in the
complex were torn down except the cell block and main administrative
building, which were preserved for historical purposes.7. Morgan Freeman Got Really Good at Catch The scene where Andy first
approaches Red about the rock hammer as Red plays catch in the main
yard took nine hours to shoot. Freeman continued to play catch for the
whole nine hours without complaining and showed up the next day with
his arm in a sling.8. The Film Was Inspired by Goodfellas Darabont says his main source of
inspiration was Martin Scorsese's Goodfellas because of its use of
voice-over narration and editing techniques.9. Voiceovers Are Tricky Business Originally, all of Morgan Freeman's
voice-over was recorded before any of the film was shot. The fact that
much of it syncs up to the on screen action (see: the scene on the roof
where the inmates drink beer) isn't simple editing. Darabont would
playback the recorded voice-over on-set during each take for the actors
to specifically play off of the audio. But the audio quality of his
voice-over was too poor to include in the movie due to tape hiss, so
Freeman had to re-record the entire voice-over in post-production.10. They Got Lucky with One of the Most Famous Scenes Every take of the
film's signature shot of Tim Robbins raising his arms outstretched in
the rain after Andy breaks out of prison was out of focus except the
one in the film. It was the final take shot for that scene.11. The Prop Guy Was a Jokester The visual joke of Andy's rock hammer
being tucked into the Bible right after the first page of the Book of
Exodus came from the film's prop master Tom Shaw.12. None of the Close-up Shots of Andy's Hands or Feet are Tim Robbins
They're director Frank Darabont.13. Stephen King's Red Was Changed for the Film In the original
novella, Red is described as a middle-aged Irishman.14. The Mug Shot of Young Red Isn't Morgan Freeman It's actually a
photo of his son.15. The Tree Where Red Finds Andy's letter Isn't in Fort Hancock, Texas
It's in Ohio's Malabar Farm State Park.

******
1 March 2015
10
One of the best stories on film. Acting, cinematography... it's all in
there. A must see. A piece of our history as filmmakers.This story is compelling as you feel for each characters' deep
struggles within a community of inmates. A range of characters excite
the plot with its unexpected culture as an intimate story unfolds of
secrets, shame, struggle and finally triumph. Morgan Freeman deserves
an Oscar for his amazing performance and Tim Robbins executes his
character flawlessly as Andy Dufresne, a man of clever who navigates
his way through a sharp turn to a new way of life. This story isn't
missing a morsel and keeps you on the edge of your seat with mystery,
murder and the element of surprise.The Shawshank Redemption shares the ranks of the best feature
screenplay I have ever read. It read unlike any other and was the kind
you can't put down. Saving Private Ryan comes in at a close second.
Frank Darabont is a hell of a writer and is also credited with The
Green Mile and developed The Walking Dead series.

******
1 March 2015
10
One of the classic movie ever made. Lots of enthusiasm is shown in the
movie, apart from all the suffering prisoners have to face. Must watch
movie. Still capturing the box office. Shawshank is a true story and a must watch for any new member. Tim
Robbins has done a fantastic job including Morgan Freeman. The Story
line of the movie is really more biased then any other top bench
marking movie. Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and
excitement. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking
about in 50 or 100 years.No action, no special effects - just men in
prison uniforms talking to each other. The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
1 March 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is most obviously one of the greatest movies
in film history. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman make an unforgettable
duo that captures the audience in magnificent acting and a well-written
plot. There was not one moment where the movie did not hold my
attention or seem boring. Therefore, it indubitably earns a 10/10 and
praise. A tale of two jail inmates/friends, The Shawshank Redemption
shines a light on the injustice of this world and the pleasures of
freedom after years of confinement. It proves that through all the
troubling experiences, one man never loses sight of his dream. This not
only gives Tim Robbins's character a chance of redemption but also
chance for Morgan Freeman's character to be inspired by an endless
struggle that pays in the end. Everyone of all ages should at one point
in their lives watch this movie to witness not only great entertainment
but also an inspiring story.

******
1 March 2015
10
''The Shawshank Redemption'' is one of the best movies I have ever
watched in my life. Tim Robbins is really a good actor and thanks to
him this movie is such a success. Also Morgan Freeman is really brought
me the story. The story is excellent,the time has just flew with this
movie. This movie just gets better with every showing. There's no some
special effects and that is just great-just men in prison uniforms
talking to each other. Everyone must watch this movie.The Shawshank
Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever
seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't really care
about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or
that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the best
technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made, but not
the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a
movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
1 March 2015
10
I've seen this film many times before , and every time I watch it it
just seems to get better! There really is nothing bad I have to say
about this film , because the overlying message of the film is infinite
, and it's just such a timeless classic . I can't imagine the movie
without Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman in their respective roles so
bravo to them , because ultimately these two characters are the heart
of the story. While there are some scenes that truly stand out to me ,
you just need to do yourself a favour a watch this amazing film. It's
one of the best of all time and I can promise you that you will enjoy
it !

******
28 February 2015
10
Was a great Movie !! I love the story and the actors were fantastic.
There is so much to say about this movie. But look, seriously, look and
say it is not a great movie from beginning to end. Of course a good
soundtrack also makes a great movie, so the soundtrack also has to be
mentioned. The Movie Picture is very good. good angles of shooting,
always transmitting us the space inside the prison. or rather the space
that we have not. And finally, check out this great movie. they
repented and were left with a better perspective for life. See the
movie, enjoy and learn! To finish just saying that it as a great movie,
oh wait, i already said that, no problem its to highlight the idea.

******
24 February 2015
10
I consider this movie as one of the most fantastic and joyful movie to
watch. It touch a social problem that few movie directors and producers
took the risk of doing like the institutionalized thing. All of the
stories developed in this movie even if they are all related of the
main character, every own little story is very interesting and full of
emotions. This movie contains good drama, a different comedy insight. I
think I have seen this movie at least 6 times and I just don't get tire
of watch in it i think every time i watch it i found new things.I
highly recommend to spend time enjoying this amazing movie and just a
piece of advice is take the time to read a little bit the reviw and
find no one bad.

******
9 February 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that creates a sense of mystery and
power. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie by displaying
their roles as best friends. After watching that movie for the first
time, I remembered clips that are drilled into my mind forever. It is
beautifully written and directed. The scene that sticks out to me is at
the end of the movie when Andy Dufresne and Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding
reunite at the end of the movie. This promotes the aspect of friendship
that will live on forever. Even though these two men have lived in
prison for years, they eventually got out (well Andy escaped) and they
still managed to find one of the most important things in their lives,
each other. I recommend this movie to all ages. Although this movie may
be a complex the first time you watch it, but after several other
times, it still creates a sense of thrill and hope for the viewers. 10
out of 10!

******
30 January 2015
10
I have been into movies since, well I was 5. But after about 15 years I
finally was lucky enough to come across this title. I had a huge
expectation when I started watching it.Hey! it ain't number 1 for show
that much i can vouch for. Well it took me a few minutes to get into it
but well once i got engulfed it was just sheer pleasure and goosebumps.The film revolves around the inmates of a prison and a NEW FISH accused
of homicide joining the faculty.The film depicts How he changed their
lives and helped them to realize and bring back the greatest gift of
life taken away from them . The friendship, the hardship, the simplest
joy, the tragedies , the yearning for freedom in each breath has been
brilliantly acted and directed.The movie makes you feel good.After
watching it it makes you smile and strengthens your faith in humanity.I
am no critic but this movie made me happy, ecstatic and I would love to
re-watch it again and again. so i would say go on watch it at once if you have not. You will love it
no matter what your taste in films are. Because this film expresses
humanity in each way possible. And as a fellow human being you will
love the emotions. If you don't then well I will be a bit surprised.P.S 1994 was the year of Forrest Gump. It took home all the awards.
Though it is a great film but in my opinion it remains only great while
shawshank is one of the greatest if not the greatest movie of all
times. Thank You...

******
27 January 2015
10
Shawshank Redemption is a very moving story about hope and the power of
friendship. The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great
performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob
Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison
guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an
elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every
actor at least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As
well as a very surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me
out of my chair. If you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet
buy it. As I bet you'll want to see this one more than once.

******
2 January 2015
10
Is the best movie of all time. Not only for IMDb users, but also for
other rewires. This movie has it all. Suspense, drama, comedy,
tenderness, friendship, etc. The photography is also magnificent. The
characters are the best actor in Hollywood at that time. An incredible
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. The story is complete and has an
spectacular ending. THe best ending the Hollywood made. This movie must
win an Oscar, but unfortunately, Tom Hank's Forrest Gump, was more
patriotic at that time and won the best picture Oscar. It is important
to you don't miss this movie although you don't like prisons movie. So
if you didn't see it, please rent it now. You wont regret.

******
17 December 2014
10
im Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a city banker, wrongfully convicted of
murdering his wife and her lover. He is sent to Shawshank Prison in
1947 and receives a double life sentence for the crime. Andy forms an
unlikely friendship with "Red" (Morgan Freeman), the man who knows how
to get things. Andy faces many trials in prison, but forms an alliance
with the wardens because he is able to use his banking experience to
help the corrupt officials amass personal fortunes. The story
unfolds....I was so impressed with how every single subplot was given a great deal
of respect and attention from the director. The acting was world-class.
I have never seen Tim Robbins act as well since, Morgan Freeman maybe
(e.g. Seven). The twists were unexpected, an although this film had a
familiar feel, it wasn't even slightly pretentious or clichéd, it was
original. The cinematography was grand and expressive. It gave a real
impression of the sheer magnitude of this daunting prison.

******
17 December 2014
9
In my opinion, The Shawshank Redemption is an amazing film in the whole
way of action and how we learning from this movie. Shawshank
encompasses friendship , hardship , hopes, and dreams. And what is so
great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope.Even
though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are
quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the
characters are going though. These artists show their capability to
produce art, real art that in spires you to look at the deeper aspects
of life and the world around you.So, Shawshank is the must see movie in
your life before you gone.

******
16 December 2014
10
If someone tells me to describe a real, entertaining movie - that would
be it. 'Real' for the lack of SFX is a true bless when talking about
"The Shawshank Redemption". I become fed up with pictures that achieve
success based on the splendid job of the SFX crew or the team
responsible for the CGI effects. Film's purity emphasises the
importance of the act. The actors are incredible; not a single minute
could be considered a bad acting (well, at least I think so).
'Entertaining' for it makes you enjoy the time spend on it and once
finished there are no regrets. I am not a huge fan of Tim Robbins but
the movie undoubtedly showed his talent. Mr. Freeman stays solid as
usual in his act.

******
15 December 2014
9
The Shawshark Redemption is very good movie. This is a story that
reflect prisons as seen by many prisoner. The Shawshark Redemption also
reflect society problems. The plots and actors played very well that
make me wanted to continue watch. They are very professional as a
director and actor. they capture and identify with America male spirit
as it shows in movie. The story is even more interesting seeing red and
Andy building a relationship in a prison. Scenes are very good.
Overall, this is a fantastic film.Comparing this kind of movie with
other type of movie like comedy,I recommended every movie lover to
watch this or you will be missing one of the best film.

******
13 December 2014
10
This movie is based on a novella by Stephen King, but don't let that
put you off. It's not a horror film, rather a thumpingly good ode to
friendship, hope, wit, wiles and wisdom, brimming with crackling
characters and topped with the most twister of twists since The Crying
Game. Found guilty of killing his unfaithful wife and her lover in a
fit of passion, sullen accountant Andy Dufresne (Robbins, casting off
his goof ball image to display more layers than the proverbial onion)
is shipped to the Gothic wind-swept corridors of the Shawshank State
Prison for life. It is here the movie gracefully unfolds. With a
beautifully rounded script, writer/director Darabont conjures up a
spellbinding personal odyssey stretching through the years from 1946 to
1967. Dufresne, all the while protesting his innocence, slowly overcomes the
hellfire tortures of the prison system - an unblinking range of
beatings, rapings and abject humiliations - while managing to inspire
his fellow inmates to lift their degraded horizons. Among them is Red
(Freeman, in a matchless supporting role), the lifer who can, given
time, provide virtually anything. And for reasons best known to
himself, Dufresne requires 40s starlet Rita Hayworth, provisioned in
poster form. The mood swings rigorously through every emotion as the cranky, wise
guy and downright crazed array of criminals bare the brunt of the
turbulent life within the doomy Shawshank catacomb. Then it gets really
mean, gearing up for its injury-time shockers. Dufresne, a whiz with
figures, is bullied into running the warden's (Gunton) petty accounting
scams, giving him the chance to execute his and the film's final,
greatest miracle. If you're miserable enough to look for gripes then, yes, it does drift
on too long and who needs prison buggery again? Yet the ending has such
poetic completeness you're too busy contentedly chuckling to worry
about sore behinds. This may have confounded American audiences - it
flopped big-time on planet Yank - but a more divine movie experience
you will not find this side of Oscardom. Spread the word.

******
22 November 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemtion ReviewThe Shawshank Redemption is my favourite film for many reasons. Adapted
from a Stephen King novella, the film is executed brilliantly and
expertly directed by Frank Darabont. The film is sad yet uplifting and
has many iconic scenes. The writing is almost perfect with all the
characters being well-developed. The film keeps us informed as to the
lead characters' thoughts and emotions. The score was incredible with
Roger Deakins cinematography and it was beautifully portrays 19 years
of life in a corrupt and brutal prison. Tim Robbins delivers an
incredible performance, as does Morgan Freeman. All of the supporting
cast were great from the Warden to Captin Hadley. The film's ending is
perfect, moving and justice for Andy delivers the feel good factor.
It's a powerful film which should have dominated the Oscars.

******
1 August 2014
8
What can I possibly add to a review corpus of over 1.2 million ratings
and three thousand reviews? This movie has been called "one of the best
movies of all time", "a powerful story about friendship, hope and
freedom" and a "latter-day retelling of the Gospel story". Many people
have seen this movie multiple times, and some claim it has changed
their lives and even saved their lives.At this point, I'm rather more interested in the phenomenon than the
movie. My take on it: this movie appeals enormously to ordinary people
(especially American men) who feel trapped by difficult situations in
their lives. Some may be looking to be rescued, like Red was; others
may take comfort in the thought that their long-term pain, tedium and
oppression will someday result in a spectacular liberating event. This
movie satisfyingly scratches that annoying itch called "life is
unfair".It's difficult to know what to think about all this. Whatever you think
about the phenomenon, "Shawshank Redemption" is also just a good movie
with excellent writing, black and white characters, a simple but
satisfying plot with a few surprising scenes, great acting, and a
certain amount of tear jerking. It's not a movie to be missed.

******
21 July 2014
9
Prison is a gloomy and dark place that can contain beauty if worked on.
Friendships can be formed, enjoyment can be experienced, and freedom
can sometimes be felt. "The Shawshank Redemption" is a very popular
film that contains world class film-making and interesting life-lessons
that can be applied from prison to the free world. Tim Robbins stars as
Andy Dufresne, a banker who is convicted of murdering his wife, a crime
he didn't commit. After being sent to the Shawshank State Penitentiary
in Maine, Andy encounters some tough people including a brutal prison
guard and ruthless prisoners and lives in constant fear. Andy soon
meets Red, a contraband smuggler with a life sentence played by Morgan
Freeman in the greatest performance of his life. The two form a special
friendship and find how to make the best of their situation. As the men
get different jobs in the prison, attempt escape, and experience
different feelings, the men try to redeem this depressing prison and
find a better life. This story is an absolute cinematic icon and there
is no questioning as to why this is a classic work of art. The
friendship formed between Andy and Red is one of the most fascinating
things to watch form in cinema, as we get elaborate character
development and watch the unfolding of a beautiful friendship come to
life in a depressing location. The extra tad's such as the use of
foreshadowing and flashbacks writer Frank Darabont uses creative detail
and complexity to make this story special. Darabont also directs this
film and portrays a prison life in shockingly unique ways. He focuses
on all the hardships that make prison seem nightmarish, but also shows
how prison can be the best place on earth when you have a friend and
enjoyment in difficult situations. The themes of persistence and hope
that are brought up in this film can relate to anyone's situation
whether free or in prison. Darabont adapts Stephen King's story to show
us how in order to live we need freedom, and without hope you will
never achieve it. This is a classic example of pure 90's film-making
and stands as one of the best classics of all time. "The Shawshank
Redemption" is one of the greatest narrative stories ever told and
brings so much up that can inspire the world on how to achieve meaning
in life.

******
20 July 2014
9
when i started watching shawshank redemption ,i think it's a kind of
slow movie type about a an investment banker who's role played by Tim
Robbins one of most acclaimed actor of her genre , accused in the
murder of her wife , by identifying the affairs with other guy , and
come jail of shawshank and her in jail the actor face so many
difficulty by jail's offcials , fellow criminals , and also get few a
nice friends including Morgan freeman . Tim Robbins who just get deep
into character and play role with excellence , as the story movie the
role of actors are get more intense , and as Tim Robbins who initially
afraid but on the other part he get more calm and relaxed and determine
and managed to survive and working on her secret plan , when you watch
this scene you get blanked , you never thought of such thing happy in
the movie , it surprise suspense just leave with a question mark on her
mind in every seconds , at last Tim Robbins successful in task and
reveal the liking of Marley Munro in the movie .i like story of shawshank redemption and its characeters ......

******
14 July 2014
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that shows courage, patience, and
determination. We sometimes see some things as impossible, but with
persistence and determination, we can achieve something. The story of
the movie is really shocking. We may find it boring on the early part
but you would just surprise on the turn of events as the movie plays
through. You will really would not believe that a certain person could
make a hole so long that you can make a way out. I can't still imagine
how the main character made it. Well in life nothing is impossible as
long as we want it happen. We must only believe of what we can do so we
can be productive and successful. This movie is really worth watching.
You may find it boring on the early part, don't be bothered, finish it,
surely you will enjoy.

******
8 July 2014
9
This isn't the type of movie that I would normally rave about. It's
about the triumph of hope over despair, and friendship over division -
it's a feel good movie.But the truth is I think The Shawshank Redemption is absolutely
fantastic. When I try to put my finger on why I like this more than
other feel good movies, I think it's largely because of the wonderful
collision of brilliant characterisation and top-class performing that
is Andy Dufresne played by Tim Robbins.The character of Andy - humble but steely, quiet but intelligent,
simple but cunning - is just perfect for this movie. He's so different
to almost any other prison break character you can imagine, and
extremely engaging. And Tim Robbins is the perfect casting - he puts in
the performance of a lifetime.Tim is very well supporting by Morgan Freeman as Red, and in fact the
entire supporting cast does their job.The plot is interesting - it consists of a series of successes and
falls for Andy. He keeps on picking himself and dusting himself down.
You end up assuming that it's all going to end tragically, which I
suppose why his final, spectacular triumph is so uplifting. Yes, it's
unrealistic, but it certainly won me over!

******
17 May 2014
9
There is nothing more to say about this film: MUST BE WATCHED. As it
will guide you into feeling that no other shot will. You will find a
perfect line combination between two big faces: Morgan Freeman and Tim
Robbins. Where large chats will make you think and rethink about
everything you though in your life. What's the real point of living?
Are my problems serious enough to be worried about? We all should try
harder finding the important little things on life that will make us
happy, true happy.Moreover, we can find almost-perfect technique on screening every
single shot from Frank Darabont. Releasing the true original idea from
writer Stephen King.Sit, and enjoy.

******
22 March 2014
9
When I watched this film at first time, I focused very much. Screenplay
is very fluent and well-designed. The most significant point for this
film, in my opinion related to actors or characters as Andy Dufrense
and Red. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman played very convincing. I know
leading role was offered Tom Hanks. But I am very satisfied Tim Robbins
played this good role. On the other hand this film didn't have any
awards as Academy and Golden Globe. This fact trouble me. I think the
most splendid episode in this film: when guards call the roll in the
morning everybody exits their rooms expect Andy and most of people
suppose that (as me) he committed suicide but he left. All in all
nobody can deny that the biggest success was off the director of film
Frank Darabont.

******
21 February 2014
10
I can't remember how I ended up watching "The Shawshank Redemption"
it's been many years. I can't remember how many times I have watched
it. I am not sure what "new" I can say about this movie, so let me say
something simple. What I say will make sense to musicians and music
lovers specifically those who adore Beethoven. This is what is to
movies, what is Beethoven's String Quartet No. 15 Movement III
"Heiliger Dankgesang" is to music. Thanks. I thought of keeping it
simple, but it seems there is a rule that I should write 10 lines. So
let me say if not for this movie and of course Beethoven's "Heiliger
Dankgesang" I would have committed suicide.

******
27 December 2013
9
An excellent film , from my point of view develops many aspects of life
such as freedom , fraternity , will, repentance ... embodied in all the
characters that make up the group of prisoners related to the
protagonist , and in contrast to these positive character issues , we
also show the abuse of power , selfishness , lack of ethics, lack of
empathy ... sins embodied mainly in the 2 bad function : the warden and
the head of the guards (the " Kurgan " from "Highlander" ) .The development of these human issues is completed by a classic story
of survival in prison , seen in previous films and of course many post
" The Shawshank Redemption " with a spectacular climax in the form of
happy ending , which will serve to please all those people who for one
reason or another are not interested in the "other issues " movie .How could it be otherwise , being a cinematic masterpiece , terrific
performances from the entire cast .Greetings friends !

******
8 December 2013
8
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is a banker convicted of murdering his wife
and her lover. He always professes his innocence, but is thrown into
Shawshank Prison with other lifers like Red (Morgan Freeman).Director Frank Darabont has made a prison fable out of a Stephen King
short story. It is well acted by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
Freeman is especially important as he is the narrator and the POV of
the story. It's his lyrical voice that makes this fable compelling. It
could have easily been a simple prison movie that rang hollow. Freeman
gave the readings depth.If there is one complaint, it is Andy's claim of innocence. It needs to
be shown early on during the trial. Instead, we derived mostly from
Andy's demeanor. It needs to be a big declaration at the beginning.
When Tommy (Gil Bellows) tells the story, he should include one detail
from the trial like the 8 bullets. That way, the audience can get an
aha moment. It's a minor point, and overall this is a good prison
fable.

******
24 November 2013
9
A friend of mine who unbelievably loves movies, share an information
about this movie by the time i won a local short film award in
Indonesia. He simply said that this is a must-see movie for a director
or DP. So i tried hard to search for this film and finally found it.
Before seeing the movie, i read the credit title that impressed me
instantly. I thought "this is not gonna be bad at all". From the very
first scene to the last of it, I can only comment that this film really
inspires me to write, produce and direct a neat story telling concept
with a surprising ending. No wonder it gets the highest rated film here
because the moment i reached the ending, i can only WOW it. Genius!

******
18 November 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt one of the most brilliant
movies I have ever seen.What makes this film one of the best ever made
is the message it conveys.It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins, has
been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he never loses
hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man again. His years
of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane, but it gives his
mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a different feel to it.
There has never been anything like it before and I don't know if there
will again.The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The
Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
20 October 2013
10
Talk about your school of hard knocks. In The Shawshank Redemption
(Columbia, R), Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), a tall, soft-spoken New
England banker, is convicted-wrong- ly-of killing his adulterous wife
and her lover. It's 1947, and Andy, having received a double life
sentence, is shipped off to Shawshank State Prison in Maine, a
maximum-security fortress packed to the grimy gills with thieves,
rapists, and murderers. How bad is life at Shawshank? So bad that when
Andy trudges off the bus along with a dozen other new inmates, the
veteran prisoners make wagers on who'll be the first to cry. So bad
that Andy finds a huge, wriggly yellow maggot buried in his lunch. So
bad that, over the next two years, he is systematically beaten and
raped by the Sisters, a crew of leering renegade inmates who take
special delight in tormenting their fellow prisoners. Make no mistake:
Andy gets worked over-and so does the audience.But then, good things have a way of happening to unfortunate movie
characters. Early in his stay, Andy makes the acquaintance of Red
(Morgan Freeman), a sly survivor who is serving a life sentence for
murder and who acts as Shawshank's one-man black market, smuggling the
prisoners anything they want-cigarettes, reefer, cards with naked
ladies (''I'm a regular Sears and Roebuck,'' he deadpans). As soon as
Andy bonds with Red, things start to ! look up. He gets hold of a rock
hammer so that he can sculpt an elegant chess set. He does the guards'
tax returns in exchange for perks like beer on a sunbaked afternoon. He
expands the dusty, neglected book room into the most comprehensive
prison library in New England. Set over a period of 20 years (the
passing decades are marked by Andy's pinup posters of Rita Hayworth,
then Marilyn, then Raquel), The Shawshank Redemption begins as a
nightmare, a postwar- New England Midnight Express, but it doesn't take
long to reveal its true, feel-good colors. The movie is about survival,
triumph, and a thing called hope. It's about a hero who rises above the
squalor because he's blessed-a saint in the muck. It's Midnight Express
Goes Gump.You need a certain craftsmanship to traffic in twin brands of
manipulation- the exploitative and the sentimental-and there's no
denying that Frank Darabont, who wrote and directed The Shawshank
Redemption (it's based on a short novel by Stephen King), knows just
what he's doing. The moss-dark, saturated images have a redolent
sensuality; you feel as if you could reach out and touch the prison
walls. And Darabont is an accomplished button pusher. He coaches the
actors so that you always know exactly who to root for and against.
When it comes to a character like the warden (Bob Gunton), all Bible-
thumping righteousness, the movie has no compunction about turning up
the hissability factor. He starts out mean, then turns meaner, then
meaner still. When Andy blasts Mozart's The Marriage of Figaro over
loudspeakers to the prison work field, it becomes a full-scale
opera-soothes-the-savage-breast number, with the prisoners standing
open-mouthed at the sublime sounds. The scene is meant to fire our
righteous liberal hearts. It helps, of course, that most of the
prisoners don't actually behave like criminals. They never say a word
about their pasts-even Andy remains a downtrodden cipher-and this lends
the proceedings a hollow, generic feel, as if Darabont had constructed
a blueprint out of old prison melodramas.A movie like The Shawshank Redemption, with its brazenly mechanical
plotting and its wish-fulfillment finale, requires a lead actor who can
carry us on the wings of his good spirits. Tim Robbins is crafty and
likable when Andy is hoodwinking the guards, and he makes you feel the
character's mute anguish. Yet in shouldering what is essentially a
laconic- good-guy, neo-Gary Cooper role, Robbins never quite makes
emotional contact with the audience. His face, foggy and placid,
suggests an overgrown baby's; there's something naggingly unformed
about him. Morgan Freeman, on the other hand, with his delicate
smolder, his eyes that seem to peer directly into everyone's soul,
makes Red feel genuine, lived-in. Speaking of the prison walls, he
says, ''First you hate 'em. Then you get used to 'em.After long enough, you get so you depend on 'em. That's
institutionalized.'' With his gift for rapt pauses, for caressing just
the right syllable, Freeman can make a speech like that sound like one
of the philosophical nuggets of the ages. Then again, isn't it time
Morgan Freeman stopped playing the soulful sidekick? While we're on the
subject of prison walls, an actor as great as he is shouldn't get too
used to movies like this one. B-

******
6 October 2013
10
Enough has been said of this masterpiece, so I'll keep my review
succinct. This truly is my favorite movie of all-time, because no
matter how many times I see it, I still get the genuine feeling of hope
the film has delivered since the first time I saw it. Everything about
this movie is perfect; from the cinematography, to the acting, the
casting, the writing...everything. It's a fantastic example of the
power of hope and the true nature of the human spirit. When you watch
it, you just know that every scene is classic; so many moments will be
remembered forever in film history. If anything, it just keep getting
better with each time I see it. I will continue to enjoy this film for
the rest of my life.

******
4 October 2013
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a magnificent film, and I love love always,
but this overrated, apparently there are three visions current world,
those who believe that citing Kane is the best movie of film history. 2
say it is a life sentence for the popular media vote, and those who
believe other things and mostly know that there is the best movie in
the world. Without a doubt, one biennium film, the protagonist is a
character you acutes very easily and that story is impossible that you
are not put goosebumps. The cast Maimonides as the rest of the movie.
Not die without seeing this masterpiece. It's the kind of movies I want
to find me when I rush to see one or when payment movie to see, for
this reason I put it a 10.

******
14 September 2013
10
In this movie a man is mistakenly accused in murdering his wife and her
boyfriend. He ends up finding away to keep himself occupy and finally
helps out his new found friend.I really like this movie, because it does show you that the system can
make a mistake just like everyone can. All people make mistakes and
since the government is run by humans of course there are going to be
flaws. I had watched this movie for the first time with my dad and I
loved watching it since. It does show that when you are determined you
can do anything you put your mind to.I think anyone who likes movies about prison or even about the judicial
system will love this film.

******
14 September 2013
10
Well what can I say but, Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a man
who has never struck a false note in his career, both narrates this
tale and anchors it with his authoritative playing. Powerful, poignant,
thought-provoking and finally irresistibly uplifting. The Shawshank
Redemption works not only as an excellent prison drama, but as a
metaphor for overcoming our own private prisons.An amazing movie.
Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and definitely one of
the top 'prison' movies of all-time. Pretty much everything about this
movie works and works extremely well! I have not read Stephen King's
novella (his first non-horror), but some of the movie's deficiencies,
such as the old-fashioned morality tale and portentous message about
camaraderie and redemption--must have been in the source material.

******
14 September 2013
10
Whenever this movie comes on I have to watch it. This movie is very
compelling and if you have not seen it I'm not going say much to spoil
it for you. This movie takes place over a few decades of wrongful
imprisonment of a banker who is accused of killing his wife. The time
spent in prison is sought with so many horrors as I saw it especially
for a man who never should have been imprisoned. The end is great and
after the movie is over they just leaving you hanging on a "What's
next" Like no other. I have seen many movies leaving you or trying to
leave you hanging but every time I see the Shawshank Redemption I
wonder what occurred after the beach.

******
12 September 2013
10
This movie was really well done 100% through. It is one of those films
that is a classic because it is a powerful story, but it's also an
intelligent film. We don't see that too much, and I hope to see more
films like this! It makes me think of the essence of filmmaking and
storytelling, and how much that aspect of our industry is really
honored. Every Director wants to tell a great story, but few let the
story tell itself. This is an intelligent film because it gets so
involved with our character driven plot lines that you forget you're
watching a movie at all. As a young filmmaker, this film is a fantastic
model to build a foundation around. Let's just hope studio thoughts
don't pick up and they try to make a sequel/prequel...

******
12 September 2013
10
This Movie is the most amazing in the industry's history . The best in
the way it shows sequence of the events . Morgan Freeman Played a
remarkable role in the movie .... movie has the successful mix ever
made of emotions anger , peace , mystery , hate , love , Betrayal and
friendship ... this movie will always be milestone in the history of
film industry .... View and full interaction figures and the absolute
harmony between the team of the film clearly reflected in the article
submissions .... The imposition of the spirit of the prison and the
transfer of the wonderful scenes that way like a prisoner until the end
of the film when liberated liberally of movie's main characters essence
of success was felt throughout the film that he is no life outside the
walls, but in some scenes .... it's a perfect work by the standards of
the industry ....

******
3 September 2013
10
In 1947, banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of murdering
his wife and her lover, based on circumstantial evidence, and is
sentenced to two consecutive life sentences at Shawshank State
Penitentiary. Andy quickly befriends contraband smuggler Ellis "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman), an inmate serving a life sentence. Red
procures a rock hammer for Andy, allowing him to create small stone
chess pieces. Red later gets him a large poster of Rita Hayworth,
followed in later years by images of Marilyn Monroe and Raquel Welch.
Andy works in the prison laundry, but is regularly assaulted by the
"bull queer" gang "the Sisters" and their leader Bogs (Mark Rolston).In 1949, Andy overhears the brutal chief guard Byron Hadley (Clancy
Brown) complaining about taxes on a forthcoming inheritance and informs
him about a financial loophole. After another vicious assault by the
Sisters nearly kills Andy, Hadley severely beats Bogs resulting in Bogs
being sent to another prison. Andy is not attacked again. Warden Samuel
Norton (Bob Gunton) meets with Andy and reassigns him to the prison
library to assist elderly inmate Brooks Hatlen (James Whitmore), a
pretext for Andy to manage financial duties for the prison. His advice
and expertise are soon sought by other guards at Shawshank and from
nearby prisons. Andy begins writing weekly letters to the state
government for funds to improve the decrepit library.In 1954, Brooks is freed on parole, but unable to adjust to the outside
world after 50 years in prison, he hangs himself. Andy receives a
library donation that includes a recording of The Marriage of Figaro.
He plays an excerpt over the public address system, resulting in his
receiving solitary confinement. After his release, Andy explains that
he holds onto hope as something that the prison cannot take from him,
but Red dismisses the idea. In 1963, Norton begins exploiting prison
labor for public works, profiting by undercutting skilled labor costs
and receiving kickbacks. He has Andy launder the money using the alias
"Randall Stephens".In 1965, Tommy Williams (Gil Bellows) is incarcerated for burglary. He
joins Andy's and Red's circle of friends, and Andy helps him pass his
General Educational Development (G.E.D.) examinations. In 1966, after
hearing the details of Andy's case, Tommy reveals that an inmate at
another prison claimed responsibility for an identical murder,
suggesting Andy's innocence. Andy approaches Norton with this
information, but the warden refuses to listen. Norton places Andy in
solitary confinement and has Hadley murder Tommy, under the guise of an
escape attempt. Andy refuses to continue with the scam, but Norton
threatens to destroy the library and take away his protection and
preferential treatment. After Andy is released from solitary
confinement, he tells Red of his dream of living in Zihuatanejo, a
Mexican Pacific coastal town. While Red shrugs it off as being
unrealistic, Andy instructs him, should he ever be freed, to visit a
specific hayfield near Buxton to retrieve a package.The next day at roll call, upon finding Andy's cell empty, an irate
Norton throws one of Andy's rocks at the poster of Raquel Welch hanging
on the wall. The rock tears through the poster, revealing a tunnel that
Andy had dug with his rock hammer over the previous two decades. The
previous night, Andy escaped through the tunnel and the prison's sewage
pipe with Norton's ledger, containing details of the money laundering.
While guards search for him the following morning, Andy, posing as
Randall Stephens, visits several banks to withdraw the laundered money.
Finally, he sends the ledger and evidence of the corruption and murders
at Shawshank to a local newspaper. The police arrive at Shawshank and
take Hadley into custody, while Norton commits suicide to avoid arrest.After serving 40 years, Red receives parole. He struggles to adapt to
life outside prison and fears he never will. Remembering his promise to
Andy, he visits Buxton and finds a cache containing money and a letter
asking him to come to Zihuatanejo. Red violates his parole and travels
to Fort Hancock, Texas to cross the border to Mexico, admitting he
finally feels hope. On a beach in Zihuatanejo, he finds Andy, and the
two friends are happily reunited.

******
12 August 2013
10
Without doubt one of the most endearing stories to touch the human
soul. Very rare a film succeeds in taking the mantle away from the
novel. However this is one of those cases when it simply just does.This soul finding, awe inspiring against all the odds film is a great
adaptation of Stephen King's 1982 Novella entitled 'Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption'.This is the film that will make you think that there is hope in the
world and that with great perseverance 'anything can be over come'. Set
in the times of what looks like the depression and located within the
backdrop of the sleepy south of America.A man sent to prison for life for a crime he did not commit, and how
this alien world of the lower reaches of society seem at first that he
will be broken and beaten and either die or go mad (as so many of the
inmates succumb to). As Simon and Garfunkel had their books and poetry
'to protect them (me)' so the lead character Andy Dufresne has his to
protect him from such failings. In Rita Hayworth he has a passage of
physical escape as opposed to the virtual world of books. He gains
respect over time not through physical violence but by the craft of his
mind and sheer willpower. Like a chess master he is thinking several
moves ahead of everyone. Even the old master lag played by Morgan
Freeman can only watch this man from a distance. However he relays
through mainly past tense commentary how this man was as GB Shaw would
say was 'Superman'. Eventually like a great master he exposes the
lies,hypocrisy and greed of the evil church going warden. This is not a
film but a journey to the very survival of the human soul and as the
lead character passes through leads a golden light on those condemned
even if only for a passing moment in time. Like a bird on a journey he
is destined to be free. Enjoy this film because it may if only for a
moment save your soul.

******
11 August 2013
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is the best movie of all times according to
over a million voters. When I saw this movie I was amazed because of
the plot of this movie and that was something that made this movie so
special.I also liked this movie very much because of the cast of this movie.
Tim Robbins (Andy Dufresne) and Morgan Freeman (Ellis Boyd 'Red'
Redding) made one of the best performances of their life. Deserves to
be noted that Bob Gunton (Warden Norton) made an also good performance.I really recommend this movie to you and I am sure that you will love
it because it's a movie that can teach you many things about life and
the relationships between people and friends.

******
5 August 2013
10
In 1947 Andy Dufresne, vice president of a bank in Portland is accused
of killing his wife and lover of this, a famous golfer, and sentenced
to life imprisonment for each although no conclusive evidence of
authorship , being sent to Shawshank.He is above the average of others who believe a snob, though Red, one
of the most popular men prisoners get to ask everything you like and
soon become friends, which does not relieve you of fall into the hands
of "Sisters", about homosexuals who do not leave you alone. Red lends a
hand and you choose to fix a roof outside the prison. There listens
Andy financial problems of a guardian and offers to save. That makes
his fame transcends and in a few years made the statements of all of
his prison guards and other county. It also serves to definitely get
rid of your stalkers, of concern to guard. He also placed in charge of
the prison library, where you write a letter every week to the Senate
for funds to it, with its insistence getting the best prison library in
all of New England.But see also the despair inside, having spent his entire life in prison
does not want to go outside where everything is hostile to them. The
old Brooks, former manager of the library outside is nothing and
commits suicide.He has a special treatment to keep the accounts of the corrupt warden,
that prisoners performing work with which anyone can compete, and
companies who want to work you must pay a hefty commission that Andy
becomes white money, inventing a fictitious character where even get
legal papers.Andy is also responsible for helping those who wish to study, including
Tommy, a boy who wants to change his life. Thanks to him, Tommy manages
to get the graduate. And is the guy who tells him that in one of the
prisons in which he was matched with a guy who told her he had killed a
golfer and his mistress and the fact that her husband accused her. Andy
sees in confession a glimmer of hope, which is truncated by the warden,
that does not help and ends with the only thread of hope, making kill
Tommy. Andy himself will spend two months in solitary confinement for
refusing to follow accounting warden.The output will return to it, but that night disappears from his cell
without anyone knowing what happened to him, until they discover a
tunnel after a large poster of Raquel Welch. And once outside, the bank
will draw up character warden $ 300,000, in addition to sending a
letter with proof of corruption all the press. Norton commits suicide.Some time later, after 40 years in prison is released Network For him,
life on the outside is as absurd as to Brooks, and think back to crime
to return to their "home". It only holds a promise I made to Andy that
he would go to a field where there was something for him. He does and
finds enough money to go to the place where Andy said that if one day
be installed leaving a Mexican village by the Pacific where a hotel
ride. Red goes there to be his assistant.Great movie, you see them.

******
22 July 2013
10
After watching "The Shawshank Redemption" I realize that the comment I
saw on the movie were not exaggerating, not a movie with light sabers,
nor with mafia phrases, much less killing to kill bill, but if you have
two men talking to each teaching us to value life. I've always been
looking for the perfect movie for me perfect film is one that touches
the soul, this movie, no effects, no fiction, I was succeeded, I found
the perfect movie. Showing us a point of view that many perhaps have
not known yet, one of the few movies that generates feeling.That's why
it makes the best movie made ​​so far "Keep busy living or get busy
dying"

******
21 July 2013
10
One of the best and must watch movie which i ever enjoyed....Shawshank
encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so
great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even
though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are
quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the
characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
21 July 2013
10
The more times you watch it, the more you love it, and the more you
learn from it. An absolutely encouraging story to those who are
desperate or sad or complaining about bad luck. If you never give up
and try to figure out a way ahead, nothing can stop you to the
brightness and freedom. Everything you have experienced will bring you
positive influences if you take it positively. I have watched it for
many times, at least ten times I guess. Now I hope I can download it
and keep it and enjoy it once I have time. I used it to encourage
people around me, for example, a girl friend who's suffering from the
depression, a workmate who has just lost his favorite pet, and a friend
who lost his job recently.

******
19 July 2013
10
this movie has the best movie ever made what more could you ask for....
great actors....ews should focus on the title's content and context. The best reviews
include not only whether you liked or disliked a movie or TV-series,
but also why. Feel free to mention other titles you consider similar
and how this one rates in comparison to them. Reviews that are not
specific to the title will not be posted on our site. Please write in
English only and note that we do not support HTML mark-up within the
reviews.What not to include: Resist the temptation to review on other reviews
or features visible on the page. This information (and its position on
the page) is subject to change without notice. A review form is not an
appropriate place to tell us there are errors in the database. If you'd
like to tell us about a specific problem, please click the 'Update
Information' button near the bottom of the main details page.IMDb is pleased to provide this forum for you to air your opinions on
your favorite (or not-so-favorite) movies and TV-series. While we
appreciate your time and reviews, we respectfully request that you
refrain from including the following in your review:Profanity, obscenities, or spiteful remarks. Time-sensitive material
(i.e., promotional tours, seminars, lectures, etc.). Single-word
reviews. We want to know why you liked or disliked the title. Avoid
unannounced spoilers! Please don't reveal crucial plot elements. If you
include a spoiler without warning readers in advance your name will be
added to a blacklist and, subsequently, all your reviews will be
discarded automatically. To label a spoiler make sure you check the
'contains spoilers' checkbox. Phone numbers, mail addresses, URLs.
Availability, price, or ordering/shipping information. Writing in
ALL-CAPS! Writing sentences in all-uppercase characters is considered
"SHOUTING" and must be avoided. Any review in violation of these
guidelines will not be posted or may be edited to conform to the
guidelines. In addition, IMDb reserves the right not to post any review
f

******
18 June 2013
10
This was a reflection of the 'count of Montecristo', especially the
jailbreak scene. But still i find it fascinating enough to impress me
and have a lot of ingredient included in it. This is probably the most
amazing movies from the nineties apart from Forrestgump and back to the
future and all. It also reminded me of the series The Oz, Its cool and
all, but there's this mainstream way of showing jail and high school as
the same in Hollywood a lot. probably so but i'm afraid that not to be
true.And one more thing i noticed was that viewers seems to be confused
a number of times as the story slips from one another scene and is
really complicated. that is it started as a man who have been betrayed
by his love to who've been framed then jailed bitched from there and
rules there becomes everyone's favorite and the warden becomes his
worst enemy and teaches him a lesson while he was on the go.

******
18 June 2013
10
This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick. It has a great and
deep message. This movie has a foundation and just kept on being built
on from their and that foundation is hope.Other than just the message of this movie the acting was phenomenal.
Tim Robbins gave one of the greatest performances ever. He was
inspiring, intelligent and most of all positive. His performance just
made me smile. Robbins plays Andy Dufresne who was wrongfully convicted
of murdering his wife and her lover. He is gets to life sentences but
yet never gives up hope. In he becomes friends with Ellis Boyd "Red"
Redding played by Morgan Freeman. Freeman who gives the finest
performance of his career has unlike Robbins lost hope. He is in deep
regret of the crime that he committed. His way of deflecting the pain
away is by trying to not feel anything at all. With his friendship with
Andy he learns that without our hopes and dreams we have nothing. Andy
also becomes friends with the rest of Red's group. James Whitmore also
gave a great performance as Brooks Halten who gets out of prison parole
but in the words of Red he has been "institutionalized".The directing by Frank Darabont was just magnificent. He kept this
movie at a great steady pace along with the writing and great
cinematography. He portrayed prison life in such a horrifying way, but
not in terms of the physical pain but the stress and pain that wares
mentally on the inmates, some of which deserve a second chance.Whatever you do, don't listen to the people who say this movie is
overrated because this is one of the most inspiring and greatest movies
ever. It has everything you could possibly want.

******
14 June 2013
10
There is a reason the Shawshank Redemption has been at #1 of the IMDb
top 250 for as long as I can remember. It is probably the best movie
that has ever been made. Not because of the thrilling special effects
(it hardly has any). Not because of the daring, experimental
innovations it has brought us (it is a quite straightforward movie).
But because of its simple, beautiful storyline and its great
characters."They send you here for life. That's exactly what they take." The
strength of this movie is that Darabont is able to show what it means
to completely lose are perspective and dreams for the future. To show
how the people inside shed off their old lives and get used to the
terrible life in Shawshank prison. We can truly understand how a man
can become 'institutionalized.' How people get used to living under a
repressive regime and can't face changing it. We see how the old Brooks
can't deal with the world around him and commits suicide. How Red faces
the same challenges when he can't take a leak without asking
permission. Inside the joint these men had a certain standing, they
were important people. Being set free is not easy when your live has
been taken from you.- "Why did you do it? - I didn't, since you ask. - You gonna fit right
in."Half of the movie we don't know for sure whether Andy is guilty or not.
It doesn't matter so much. What is important is not his past.
Rehabilitated? What does that word even mean? In prison you live a
whole different life. With whole different rules. Without a past. Or a
future. Andy is the exemption. He shows us the remedy against becoming
institutionalized. By never accepting our destiny. By never giving up.
By always keeping our dreams alive."- There are places in the world that aren't made out of stone. There
is something inside that they can't touch. - What are you talking
about? -Hope. - Let me tell you something my friend, hope is a
dangerous thing. Hope can drive a man insane. You better get used to
that idea."But Andy doesn't get used to that idea. He has received two things by
the warden. "Discipline and the bible." And he uses these two things to
get out and escape to the paradise called Zihujataneo. There are two
things that make this movie so extremely good. The first thing is that
we all can relate to Andy. "I must admit, I didn't think much of Andy first time I laid eyes on
him. He had a quit way about him. A walk and a talk that just wasn't
normal around here."Andy is a normal guy. He is smart, he is doing good. But he is not
extremely strong, or extremely smart, or extremely rich. In other
words: he is us. He is elevated a little bit above the criminals in
prison, but his two most important characteristics are characteristics
that, deep down inside us, we all have: hope and determination. These
two emotion are so strong and so pure, that we all love to see the live
of Andy. That is what makes this movie so appealing.And by living just your live as best as you can, by never giving up and
by keeping your dignity at all times, we see that we can inspire
people. Brooks was here. So was Red. Red didn't choose that path of
Brooks. Red hasn't become completely institutionalized. Because he
lived with Andy and dreamed a bit of his dreams.We, the normal movie-watchers, have never been to prison. And
certainly, there is nobody who can play the role of an older brother as
the great Morgan Freeman, and this might be his best performance of his
live. Darabont shows a lot of skill in movie-directing and can let
years pass in his movie without one moment losing our attention. There
is a great soundtrack, which breathes the smell of Southern America
into our living rooms. But I'm convinced that what makes this movie so
great is that it inspires us all.We are not stuck in a prison, but certainly we can be stuck in our
lives. Change is hard and also outside of prison it is possible to
become institutionalized. We can have a life that seems to have no past
and not future. That seems to be unrelated to all the other things that
happen in the world. Andy learns us to never give up. To never lose
faith. To always keep hoping and dreaming about paradise."I guess it comes down to a simple choice. Get busy living or get busy
dying."

******
12 June 2013
10
This movie is the best of all times.All the actors are in their high
limits of their performs.When you are watching the movie you just feel
you are in that prison and living all these things like they suffered
all the pains.And I need to say something about Morgan Freeman.His
voice and his role is perfect in this movie. you are just watching out
of breath during the movie.I don't know but maybe I watched this movie
more than three and every time ı am finding new things that ı couldn't
see before.Also the story is unique and different than other prison
movies.I am describing in that way because before and after this film
there are a lot of movies about prison life.To give this prison life
emotions you need to find some specific things which would grab
audiences' attention.

******
11 June 2013
10
first thing this film was amazing because it all about prison and life
within then i don't know why Oscar miss this film and amazing acting of
Morgan Freeman it will be the best film that i ever seen i wish all
people around world see this film enjoy>>>>first thing this film was
amazing because it all about prison and life within then i don't know
why Oscar miss this film and amazing acting of Morgan Freeman it will
be the best film that i ever seen i wish all people around world see
this film enjoy first thing this film was amazing because it all about
prison and life within then i don't know why Oscar miss this film and
amazing acting of Morgan Freeman it will be the best film that i ever
seen i wish all people around world see this film enjoy

******
10 June 2013
10
"I wish I could tell you that Andy fought the good fight, and the
Sisters let him be. I wish I could tell you that - but prison is no
fairy-tale world.". I think this line by Morgan Freeman pretty much
sums up the whole film! Amazing film written by one of the most
interesting writers of our time. Steven King, who is often known for
giving us fantastical horror stories, brings to the table one of the
most realistic terror tales imaginable. Andy, a banker, finds himself
accused of a crime, and is sent to prison. There, he is faced with the
challenges of survival while maintaining hope, to one day find his
freedom. In his journey he makes an unlikely bond with fellow inmates
and is able to enlighten them with things they never dreamed possible.
This is a definite must see film.

******
9 June 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest movies I have seen in
sometime. The first time I saw it was in my Film & Literature class and
I loved it from start to finish. It keeps you thinking and even if you
read the novella, there is changes to it. There are many foreshadowing
in it that could help you figure out what's happening later in the
story and overall. Many film fans should check it out and even later
buy it if you want. The film also has many likable characters as well
and you'll have some of those funny moments (but not a lot). It's a
movie that you'll watch again and again.Stars: Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Clancy Brown, William Sadler, Mark
Rolston. Year: 1994

******
9 June 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption is an uplifting, deeply satisfying prison
drama with sensitive direction and fine performances.The screenplay was written by Frank Darabont, who based it on the
novella "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" by Stephen King.
He adapts the material so well that he really transcends it, turning
the film into a work of art. Many avid readers will claim the book is
always better than the movie, but that is simply not the case here.
King is a tremendous writer, but even he can't shade and color the
prison the way that Darabont does, which sets the mood for the entire
film. The characters King created in the book are deeper and more well
drawn in the film in large part because of Darabont's script. Many moviegoers turn their noses up at the thought of a movie about the
triumph of the human spirit. However, even those jaded film fans will
love "The Shawshank Redemption" because it sets a new standard for
films in this genre. It is an unapologetically emotional and sometimes
sentimental take on friendship and life, even when that life is spent
in a cage, and will make viewers laugh, cry, and reflect on their own
lives in ways that very few movies can. It may not have won a single
Oscar, but it will win your heart, and perhaps that is more important.

******
9 June 2013
10
Truly a masterpiece. This is one of those movies which you can watch
over and over again and still find it as moving as the first time you
watched it. This film can not be replicated, because the film is
special; the Director wanted to make a piece of art of his film. The
movie has no bad points it's what a story should be about, it takes you
somewhere that you never been, and makes you feel you lived that
experience, and you can learn from that experience. The lines
delivered, will always be remembered 'Get busy living, or get busy
dying' (this is the dilemma we face in everyday live). For this I give
this movie a 10/10 and strongly recommend you to see it.

******
7 June 2013
10
This is a different one... at least from the kind of movie I'm used to
watch in sync with friends. Because the 'action' in the plot is around
mystery and complex characters. The movie omits most of the stuff so
you do the work, including the emotional work, and that I value greatly
in a movie. Movies that make you feel and think, that are not obvious
and bogus are the ones you should watch. Directors that don't tell you
in each scene exactly the actors are feeling and thinking... no. You
need adventures through each history, through realms of thought. Those
are the ones you should watch. I don't want to go deep in the movie to
avoid spoilers, since I write reviews for guys to decide if they are
going to watch. So here is the tip: If you are looking for fun this
might not be you guy. You will cry and I don't like that when movie
syncing with friends. But if you want to know a history well developed
around emotion, and some really funny nice characters, or even some of
Morgan freeman then you should do this.

******
7 June 2013
9
http://tele-film.com http://tele-film.com/news/1 100% Monthly
2013-05-09 11:22 http://tele-film.com/news/11 100% Monthly 2013-05-09
11:20 http://tele-film.com/news/15 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 11:25
http://tele-film.com/news/18 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 11:26
http://tele-film.com/news/22 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 11:31
http://tele-film.com/news/26 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 11:34
http://tele-film.com/news/30 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 12:00
http://tele-film.com/news/33 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 12:01
http://tele-film.com/news/36 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 12:03
http://tele-film.com/news/39 100% Monthly 2013-05-09 12:07

******
7 June 2013
10
i watched this movie a 10 times...still not a bit bored..this is the
most Beuiful and greatest movie...the screenplay is perfect and the
actors are performing just like the prisoners in the jail.The casting
of the movie is just perfectly great,i can't think anyone other than
the those actors in respective roles.Tim Robbins and Morgan freeman is
just great to watch.If you didn't watched this movie you have just lost
something...hope...the greatest of things...the movie starts with Tim
Robbins sent into the jail for murdering his wife and lover..and
imprisoned for two life sentence.he has seen worried in the beginning
but he retains hope to survive.When i watched the climax when Andy
escapes from the prison i can't believe the moment and i rewind it for
another ten times..just incredible movie

******
6 June 2013
10
The Shaw shank redemption is a movie that you should see this movie is
set in the 40s-50s and it's about a man (Tim Robbins) who goes to
prison for something he did not do and along the way Tim meets another
man during the film (Morgan Freeman). I think Morgan freeman is the
perfect actor for this film he was just amazing and I love his voice
it's so good. Anyway about the film it's about two hrs and a half long
and that's a pretty long film. Through out the film Mr robbins does
somethings to change the prison like one scene he makes a huge change
to the library at the prison and he teaches one of the prisoners how to
read and do math equations. Also he does taxes for the guards in the
prison and he loses some good friends along the way and the ending was
just fantastic I just loved it and the ending goes something like this:
Mr robbins has just escaped and is on the beach cleaning up a boat and
then he sees his mate from prison Mr freeman who was let free from
prison and they both see each other on the beach and they run at each
other and hug. Overall I just loved it even though the movie can be
violent and sad at times i would watch this film again lots of times.
Anyone that has not here is the trailer :
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6hB3S9bIaco. My name is Henry and if you
want to see more reviews check out my page but for now goodbye.

******
29 May 2013
10
One of the masterpieces of Stephen King that became another memorable
masterpiece for movies (and one of the most underrated films by the
Academy)."Shawshank Redemption" is one of the most magnificent and beautiful
films ever made, is not the first time that another work of Stephen
King becomes a must see classic. Thanks to Frank Darabont, the film
became unforgettable and also thanks to the magnificent history. Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is a simple and shy bank worker, who after
seeing his wife with her lover, he threats to kill her. His wife and
her lover show up dead in the next day and Andy is sentenced to life
imprisonment in Shawshank institute where begins his great life story
when he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) and a strong friendship starts
between this two during the long years of imprisonment. Andy manages to
bring many benefits to the prison and the prisoners, but only later
that Andy discovers that his arrest was all a "misunderstanding."The strongest points of the film is the screenplay of Darabont writing
and detailing the film with greater mastery possible by putting us in
the place of Andy and get us feeling the tightness and claustrophobia
of prison. But at the same time with a very well-constructed dialog
that narrates the film without blemish and without leaving any loose
end, leaving the story and his final message in greater perfection. A
story that teaches the value of friendship and strong at the same time
of hope, one of the beautiful things in life and that we can never
abandon it or forget it.Not only the story is absolutely amazing and without any flaws, but the
performances of each of the cast stand out, Morgan Freeman being
perfect as in all his roles. But who stands out is definitely Tim
Robbins with a show of perfection while maintaining its character as it
is, shy and who keeps to himself and does not try to be anything more
than that.A film that is undoubtedly magnificent, a true masterpiece that should
be watched over and over again to witness this spectacle emotionally
breathtaking classic.

******
27 May 2013
10
"The true masterpiece" This movie has a quite way defining the life,
struggles, deep happiness and sadness. The director has completely
understood the movie and so all his efforts we can see here.Nothing less than a Divine Gift to the World. Once anyone sees
definitely he is going to repeat it a lot often.Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) and Red (Morgan Freeman) both have best
performances. The best ending scene of this movie I have ever scene
showing kind of Deja-Vu and Divine feeling to me. It is the movie about friendship and slow-redemption. You might not
blink for a second to see what next it would lead to. Each character is
fitted to their roles perfectly and they have given a flawless
justification to that. A prison life is depicted in this movie which is
looks vivid. I would say that this movie is aptly rated. This movie has a way to
touch your heart by means of showing a true Hope.

******
17 May 2013
10
Every once in a while you come across a movie which touches your heart
in a way you cannot describe. It moves you and affects your take on
life. This is one such movie. It will fill you with an undefinable
happiness and you'll never be able to get enough of it. The Acting: Splendid acting by Tim Robbins. He carries the role of an
educated lawyer partial to music with enviable charm and subtlety.
Morgan Freeman of course is as good as ever. His narrations are always
a cherry on the cake.The Soundtrack: An elegantly restrained balance between the grim tones
of the Shawshank Prison and the more melodic influences of hope.
Perfectly in conjunction with the acting.I hope anyone who hasn't seen this movie, sees it. "I Hope..."

******
29 April 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a phenomenal movie with a very well
developed storyline, outstanding character development and a fantastic
cast. It's almost immediately engaging, I found myself engrossed by the
story from the very first scene, as we follow Andy Dufresne in his
journey in to prison, we feel the characters emotions, even without
them being properly exposed and as the film progresses we see him form
relationships in Shawshank prison that add a lot of depth. The
character development in this movie is ridiculously well written and is
what writers should look towards as inspiration, the relationship
between Andy and Red, Brooks' entire story arch, the Warden and
Captain's partnership, it's all very believable, as well as captivating
thanks to a terrific script by Frank Darabont. The performances are all
absolutely outstanding, Tim Robbins emotional, enclosed personality as
Andy is terrific, Bob Gunton's sinister delivery, Clancy Brown's
threatening persona, James Whitmore's innocent, uneducated attitude, it
all comes together to create engaging, realistic people. However, the
undeniable star of the show, and the main reason this film is #1 on
IMDb's Top 250 has to be Morgan Freeman, his portrayal of Red is
immediately enticing, he's a pure, honest man who keeps the story
moving with narration, Freeman's voice-over work for this film adds
that extra layer that was very necessary and added so much more power,
his dialogue with Robbins is some of the best acting I have ever seen,
and the moment in which he speaks about his parole for the final time
is possibly the highlight of this amazing actors entire career. Very
engaging, emotional, The Shawshank Redemption is a long movie, but I
never found myself wanting it to end, and I would highly recommend it
to anyone looking for a good drama. Andy Dufresne is sentenced to two lifetimes in prison when he is
convicted for killing his wife and her secret lover. He is miserable in
Shawshank prison, but soon makes friends in the wise Red. Best Performance: Morgan Freeman

******
19 April 2013
10
This movie captures many of things that made us love movies in the
first place! It is a movie that contains many beautiful messages about
life in general and how we should always be grateful for what we have,
it's about friendship, it's about dedication and determination! It
teaches that we can find beauty in the most difficult situations and
places. I rated this movie 10/10 because I seriously couldn't find any
flaw, the direction, script, acting, production values, and acting.
What I like about this movie is that's all about humans, it's about the
simple human needs that we seek, freedom, love, respect, power,
friendship, health, fairness and justice. This movie is great because
it can reach to any human being regardless of their background or
history or preference, it will touch you so deep!

******
18 April 2013
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a cinematic masterpiece. Firstly, its
setting. The opening aerial shots of the prison are a total eye-opener.
This is an amazing piece of architecture, strong and Gothic in design.
Immediately, the prison becomes a character. It casts its shadow over
most of the film, its tall stone walls stretching above every shot. It
towers over the men it contains, blotting out all memories of the
outside world. Only Andy (Robbins) holds onto hope. Andy Defrain
escapes from prison by digging a hole in the wall that is hidden under
the poster of the model. Warden and Brookes commit suicide and Baron
gets sent to jail. Lastly, morgan freemans character is set free.

******
9 April 2013
10
I've seen this film on IMDb so many times before on so many people's
lists. But I just ignored it because I thought it was not what I was
looking for. When I finally decided to see it, I immediately regretted
not watching it any sooner. The film is heartbreaking and frustrating from the start, but in the
end, you would truly feel redemption. You could feel the pain and
injustice brought upon Andy, the protagonist. As I watched the movie, I
felt as if I was in prison with him; I felt as if I've gone through the
struggles that he went through as well. You could see how time is
irrelevant in prison; you feel minutes go by when it's actually days,
weeks, months, and years. And then you'll feel disappointed at all
those years where you could have done something different in the world
outside.The film is also an eye-opener. You open your eyes to what its like in
prison; although, the prison in the movie seems more ideal than real
life prisons. You get a glimpse of brutality and rape inside prison.
You get to see how some prisoners become institutionalized and never
seem to want to leave anymore. There is also a depiction of how rampant
corruption is, and its sad to think that those involved are the ones
who are supposed to be protecting and abiding by the law.The cast is great. I couldn't ask more from Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman. Even the other prisoners are good too. Overall, I think that
the main point of this movie is never to lose hope; that hope is always
a good thing. This movie is as equally good as Forrest Gump and Pulp
Fiction (movies that were made in the same year as this), but I can't
understand why only these two movies got most of the attention. All in
all, this movie certainly is the kind of movie to watch before you die.

******
8 April 2013
10
it's very good film i watched it more than 10 times i like scene of the
actress on the wall and the plan to escape i loved the actor
personality Morgan was protector to the movie i liked prison manager in
acting all actors were perfect i adore adore adore this movie i will
watch all movies of this actor thank you a lot but i need to know it;s
areal history or not ? as someone told me it's real but i can't believe
that cleverness , beverage scene was good when he solved the problem of
the officer , i need to see all movies of prisons as prison break but i
don't know names as i'm Egyptian can't now more American movies so i
need help in that

******
23 March 2013
10
Not really a lot you can you say about this film that hasn't already
been said. One of my all time favourite films. How Morgan Freeman didn't get a
best supporting Oscar for this film, I'll never figure out.Wonderful, amazingly written film. The cast are superb (Tim Robins
always underrated as an actor). Pulls you through every emotion. If you haven't seen this film then you
you don't know what you've been missing. A must have for any movie
buff.It didn't do so well at the box office, but this movies reputation has
grown over the years through word of mouth, showings on television and
then of course along came the video then DVD rentals.

******
19 March 2013
10
This film is brilliant, just brilliant. I watched this film expecting
just a normal movie but when it ended I knew it would stay with me
forever. Every decade has one or two groundbreaking movies, the 70's
had The Godfather and Apocalypse Now, the 80's had Platoon and Raging
Bull the 90's had The Shawshank Redemption and Pulp Fiction and the
2000's had Gladiator and The Lord Of The Rings. There were a lot of
good films in the 90's and this is up there with the best . The story
is about a man called Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is wrongly
convicted and sent to the Shawshank Prison. When there he meets Red
(Morgan Freeman) and then the story takes off. The acting is incredible
and Freeman and Robbins deliver the performances of their career, the
script is incredible (another great collaboration between Steven King
and Frank Darabont) and it didn't win one single Oscar! This could have
been good enough for three Oscars at the least, true, the competition
(Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction) were good films but, The Shawshank was
certainly good enough to win a couple.So if you haven't seen The Shawshank Redemption, buy it, rent it and
watch one of the most powerful and moving films ever, be prepared to be
blown away.

******
15 March 2013
10
This has got to be one of my favourite films of all time. I first saw
it when it made it to British TV and have only just got round to buying
it and i've watched it a few times since then.The characters have so much depth, you end up loving them the more you
watch this film. The acting is first class. The cinematography is first
class. The sound is first class. The casting is first class. The
dialogue is fantastic. All these elements and more make this a riveting
watch and you end up wishing the film could be longer.This is one of the few times i've seen a film after reading the book
thinking the film is an improvement. It seems to me it expands a little
on Stephen King's novella.This film deserves the rating it has here on IMDb

******
19 February 2013
9
Shawshank Redemption narrates a beautiful story of two prisoners
bonding over the number of years. Their experiences in the prison and
the chemistry between two (Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman) have been
shot with terrific care.Editing and Screenplay of this movie are among
the best in any movie you will see. The credit goes to director on shaping the movie in such an interesting
way and the ending of the movie is arguably among one of the very
bests. One might feel the movie is a bit slow at times, but you are
always into the plot which brings on new surprises consistently. Overall, this is the sort of movie you will remember for long time and
a benchmark among the "feel good" movies. MUST WATCH.

******
19 February 2013
10
This is a must watch movie in every once life,love it.. the reviews
which are ahead are as good as the movie... every frame in the movie
has its meaning. one can think easily that even though movie came on to
the screen two decades earlier it is still no:1 in its position i
personally created this account to give my rating and write a review on
such a wonderful film. i felt very happy after watching this film and i
thought of sharing with you. finally i want to say that "entertainment
is there ever corner of our life. but meaning of the true life lies
with in this movie". this movie give a valuable message "if we want a
thing really & actually from the heart then every force on this earth
will try to help us..but the only thing we have to do is never loose
HOPE"

******
19 February 2013
10
it is the most great film in the history of American cinema. Robbins
and freeman are fantastic. it implants hope in our soul. friendship
relation between the Robbins and freeman in the film is very nice. i
know that movie is the first in the IMDb schedule , and its really
worth it. When I watch any movie I always return to your appreciation
of it and relied upon, but in this film I've seen just so, I said it
deserved to be the best and when I returned to the evaluation have
really found is also.But I do not know why did not achieve high income
while movie display, but perhaps it was due to have been introduced in
the early nineties of the last century, and the film does not usually
attracts young researcher substance or sexual violence.

******
8 February 2013
10
Tim Robbins as Andy a successful banker that was arrested and charged,
and sent to the Shawshank prison for the murders of his wife and her
lover that he did not commit.Morgan Freeman as Red the longtime lifer who serves as narrator and
friend to Andy. In order for Andy to help the young man cope with
prison as Red is really used to it having lived there for years.Red is also a smuggling expert at contraband and gives people
cigarettes, posters of Rita Hayworth to Andy among other things. As
people at the prison look up to him. Red has also been denied parole so
many times he looks at getting parole as useless along the way.Both must deal with the harsh reality of prison. As both need to lean
on one another to survive. And Andy is beaten up by Mark Rolston, as
Red and his thugs and after Red is beaten up himself and paralyzed as
Andy is no longer bothered again. In the process, Andy is moved from
the laundry job.Andy works with the corrupt warden Sam Norton(played evilly by Bob
Gunton), and corrupt and sadistic guard Captain Hadley(Clancy Brown),
in the prison library and fixes taxes and money laundering for them
personally.Andy is placed in solitary confinement a couple of times, once for
refusing to not keep on money laundering for the warden. Who in turn,
would take away his job and the library he has been working at.As he really wants to be released as he did not commit the murders. And
with the help of the little rock hammer that he gets from Red, to build
rocks to play checkers with to pass the time in prison. He wants
something more to do that than.Won't tell you nothing more as you have to see it for yourself. A movie
of hope and encouragement. As it shows you should never, ever give up
hope as that keeps you going.Robbins and Freeman make a great duo. And the chemistry between them
looks really real. Great writing and great acting by them and the
supporting players! Really you will love this movie if you had not seen
it.

******
7 February 2013
10
"Every mind has billions of ideas and each one of us do things that no
one expects us to do, some of those things are visible, some not but
one of those things that make our life worth living is FREEDOM"Tim Robbins stars as Andy Dufresne, a young man who faces a long, long
time in prison after he is wrongfully found guilty of murdering his
wife and her lover. While inside he learns an awful lot about what a
man can hold onto and let himself be put through if there is still an
ounce of hope in his soul. Bottles of cool drink on a hot rooftop, a
slowly building library collection, the moment of musical joy that sees
Dufresne severely punished for his overstepping of the mark and many
other scenes spring to mind as classic moments in a movie almost chock
full of classic moments. Andy quickly gets befriended by "Red" (Morgan
Freeman), actually the narrator of the story, both soon prove that even
in the worst circumstances, within the "hell on earth" they can
maintain human dignity and strive on their own way to freedom... Morgan
Freeman is the film's secret strength, playing "the guy who can get it
for you" with a note of welcome ambiguity. Watching him in an early
scene, when a fat, new convict (fresh fish) is being beaten by cruel
head guard Captain Hadley (Clancy Brown), you don't know whether Red
looks so crestfallen for the victim or for the packs of cigarettes he
just lost betting the guy wouldn't break before Dufresne James Whitmore
was equally memorable as a prisoner who was unable to adjust to the
outside after his parole following a 50 year stint. This shows that
people who have been incarcerated for such a long period, need some
sort of readjustment training before they rejoin society. For Whitmore,
freedom meant ultimate doom, making the scene one of my all-time
favorite displaying the ultimate dark side and a certain fear in
freedom. Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman along with James Whitmore etched
unforgettable performances as prisoners charged with crime. The film
shows what prison life is all about. Subjects dealing with prison
survival, brutality, corruption and ultimate redemption are well shown.
An outstanding film dealing with prisons as seen by several prisoners.
Many social problems are discussed here. The picture earned a
well-deserved best picture Oscar nomination. It certainly should have
tied with the winner, the equally good "Forrest Gump."My Rating - 10/10

******
30 November 2012
10
The story as a whole is incredibly done, everything from the camera
work to the choice of words used. I also love how each character is so
unique and well developed. So many small adjustments are made
throughout the film, to the characters make up for example, which makes
this such a well finished film. I highly recommend this to anyone who
wants a brilliant film. 10/10. (side note, this is my only 10/10 film)It is an emotional and thrilling film which has many plot twists. I
feel like this is one of the greatest movies every made, and i have
many good reasons to think this.-Sean

******
23 November 2012
10
Really, after all this time, why write about Shawshank now? Well,
simply, it's still the best movie I've ever watched.... 10 times. This
is a movie that from start to finish keeps you engaged like no other
film. When it concludes you wonder how a 2 hour plus movie can go by so
quickly. No bathroom breaks or snack breaks during this movie, whether
it's the first time watching it, or your tenth. Just sat down and
watched it again 2 nights ago with my daughter (12). She too never
moved from the couch and loved the film. This film will hold up to the
test of time because it's simple: great writing, great acting, great
directing and watchable over and over.

******
24 September 2012
9
Yes! it's absolutely true.Recently I had gone to a DVD shop. I found
this movie and bought it. SHAWSANK REDEMPTION is a never before never
again movie. One man is accused by murder case that he did not do that.
after he becomes a prisoner. in that prison another man finds him and
they becomes close friends. but that man never loses his hope to be a
free man. he makes his all prison life to find a solution to live as
free man in the world and he does some things to ensure this to come
true. then he finds and makes his life absolutely free. This amazing movie was directed by frank darabont with original story
by stepen king. afterwards this movie was nominated for seven Oscars
including best picture. but won nothing. I don't hesitate to say it's a
evergreen movie all time in everyone's life.

******
23 September 2012
9
Finally I Watched "Shawshank Redemption." Well, Last night I watched a
movie which has most un-believable rating on world's most trusted movie
rating site, IMDb with a rating of 9.3 by more than 800,000 votes
(yes!). I's indeed very overwhelmed & enthusiastic about the movie.(you
know, that much publicity takes the excitement to the extreme level)
Now, talking about the movie, it is a story of a man who gets life
imprisonment sentence for a crime which he didn't commit. Here it
remembers me about the classical Russian novella named 'The Kreutzer
Sonata' by "Leo Tolstoy". It seems to me a bit inspired from that.
Indeed. The rest of the story line is different. It specifically a
story of a man's struggle (in which he got succeed) to come out of the
prison (by hook or crook, take it your own way) and proved himself
innocent after the hard sufferings of 19 years imprisonment. The whole
story tells about the moral to heed i.e. "Hopes Never Die." I really
can keep this movie on my All-time favorite movies list. It deserves
so, Btw. This is some of among those movies in which I didn't check the
duration even a single time. And, during the whole movie I was just
sitting on the edge of my chair with wide open my eyes & my mind (off
course). And, for now, with classiness of this movie in my brains & off
course terrible sleep in my eyes, I'm no more in situation to write
anything else. But one thing I'd make sure that very soon I'm gonna
read 'Stephen King'. And, At the last I'd like to halt my review by one
of the dialogues of the movie, Which I liked a lot, "Get busy living or
get busy dying." And, I'm really nowhere an obtuse to just review it
like a blind-head Ass. Lol :) Remember Hope is a good thing.

******
12 September 2012
10
I absolutely love The Shawshank Redemption. When a movie gives me
goosebumps, it has done its job. Where to start. The acting in this
movie is sublime. I had never seen any movie starring Tim Robbins, but
Morgan Freeman is one of my favorite actors. Tim Robbins portrays an
intriguing man. He and Morgan Freeman work together extremely well.The story itself is brilliant. A banker, wrongfully put in prison would
not seem that interesting, but with these people and their
conversations and companionship it's certainly worth a watch. I was sad
when I thought the director killed off Andy Dufresne at the end, but
when I realised he had actually escaped I couldn't stop smiling until
the movie was over. This movie certainly deserves the #1 spot in the
top 250 movies, as it's a must see for everyone.

******
9 September 2012
10
This movie doesn't deserve a 10, it deserves a 11...This is the best movie I ever saw, everything on the movie is great,
the story, the acting, the message, just everything. I spoke with so
many people that saw this movie, and everyone of them said that The
Shawshak Redemption is a truly masterpiece.If someone is reading this- please stop reading and go and watch the
movies if you haven't yet, because you will see one of the best movies
ever made in human history. It is the best rated movie (9.2) and when I
see that rating Im just asking myself "why is there just a 9.2 instead
of a 10??

******
6 September 2012
10
What can i say, its shaw shank. I don't refer the film as the shaw
shank redemption i call it shaw shank as everyone knows what I'm on
about when i say its my favourite (and i only seen it in April 2012).
The story is well known as Andy dufrense is wrongly accused of a double
murder and sentenced to shaw shank prison where he meets red (played by
the awesome Morgan freeman). Over time in the movie he adapts to life
in prison and escapes and becomes a free man. How did a movie this so
simple become beloved by so many. How? I don't know how and i don't
care but this film is basically a beginner for any filmmaker and
already became a success years later. Although it did not great at the
box office yet critics praised it well, years later people discovered
it on VHS. I wished i seen this film earlier as a teenager as it would
have struck to me even more through a time i felt depressed and sad. A
discovered this movie in the local library and rented it as i heard of
the film being very good and after seeing it, it is more than just
good. I may be over-exaggerating this brilliance of the film but it
unlike many other films (except the lion king of the return of the king
hit me right in the soft spot). I didn't cry at the end, i smiled at
the end. What a film.The good of the film, the acting from freeman. Although he lost to
hanks in Forrest gump for best actor, i don;t care as hanks did as much
as a good job as freeman did (if better). Tim Robbins was also amazing
and likable with the supporting cast doing perfection to the highest
level. The score is beautiful, the mies en scene, the scripting writing
is gold and genius making this a classic. This film is not complex and
it is something that makes it just so darn good. The pacing is perfect
and the narration from freeman is timeless. The iconic shots of Andy
raising is hands in the air after escape is timeless as and should be
attempted when finishing school (as i have did).A film highly recommend by me and others as well, touched me to the
point of joy and laughter and will bloom your day as it always will
live as cinemas most beloved classic ever. 5/5

******
3 September 2012
10
Whenever I see a prison or even think about it, the first thing that
comes to my mind is this film. Maybe it's because I have watched this
masterpiece so many times that it's actually made a place inside my
head and will never go away. I just cannot explain how well this film
is made. The direction and screenplay by Frank Darabont and the fact
that it is based upon "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" by
Stephen King makes it highly likable. Moving on to the performances by
Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne and Morgan Freeman as Ellis Boyd "Red"
Redding, they shine just like a diamond, stupendous performances by
them. I still can't believe that it never got any major accolade and
didn't even make much money but still it has developed into something
sensational which can't be missed.

******
2 September 2012
10
I have three framed posters of my favourite films on my wall. On the
left is 'The Dark Knight' and on the right is 'The Lord of the Rings:
The Return of the King'. These are the best films of their outstanding
trilogies and, in my opinion, are the greatest films of my generation.
I have watched each countless times because they're filled with action,
suspense and tension and also incorporate a sense of overcoming that
which seems impossible to overcome.Then, purely because it was rated highly, I watch a film not of my
generation, on a free DVD from the Sunday Times. Without special
effects or a large budget, The Shawshank Redemption became my third
poster because it exceeds the qualities TDK and ROTK have in abundance. Each are excellent. Shawshank's better.

******
10 August 2012
10
I'll keep this short and sweet. I am not the type of person who reads
critique reviews and determines whether that will make me watch a movie
or not. However, I didn't think I would ever want to see this movie
after seeing the preview and a friend said it was a bit slow. I have to
honestly say that I was impressed by the directing, acting and overall
story. This is a great move! You should defiantly take the time out of
your life to see a great movie that is not a superhero remake. This
story has structure, purpose and meaning. Though, if you can't sit
still then don't bother. However, I do think it's time we get some
culture back in our lives.

******
10 August 2012
10
I can't figure out how a man could think such an outrageous concept
like that!Its just beneath all the beautiful thing.Thanks to Frank
Drabount,Morgan Freeman,Time Robbins.Excellency is sky high in this
film.Not a movie,its just a lifetime experience.Sometimes people felt
to sad ,they curse themselves,regret for everything they have done in
life.They crush for success,run after money.But,here is the thing that
changes everything and it is indeed "The Hope".No matter how bad you
feel,no matter how hard the path of the life is,the show is still goes
on if you have just one thing and that is "The Hope".Life would
certainly changes if peoples take the deep meaning of this wonderfully
executed movie.Probably It will help many people to start their life
for the second time!!Hats off to everyone who worked with the Shawshank
Redemption Team..

******
26 July 2012
10
What can I add to all the other reviews here? Just my own feelings
about this. I now realise I watched the film in one of the hardest times,
emotionally, I can remember in my life. Thoughts chasing themselves
around in my head, heartbroken, paranoid and not well physically. Total
mess.My dear female friend who got me through it all told me this was a film
to watch. I initially resisted, thinking it was going to be
lightweight, PC fare. I don't know why I thought that.There's a lacklustre opening sequence -I think. Then you get to see
what kind of performance Morgan Freeman is going to turn out this time,
and you start to be interested. Then this extraordinary scene flying
over the prison, and I think by then you're hooked.This scene is deeply moving, not least because of the music. It's
difficult to see how Thomas Newman's music for this film could possibly
be bettered - perfectly listenable to in it's own right, but when you
do you're reminded of the boys on the roof in the sun, enjoying their
first beer for so long. They've been touched by Andy's kindness. Sometimes a kindness is thrown
back in one's face, but other times a gesture of gratitude is given
back - like Haywood getting up and offering Andy one of his beers - and
a powerful connection is made. The film is full of great hardships and unbearable sadness - surely
scars that can never completely heal or be forgotten. But it is also
full of joy and fun and hope. To capture all the above in a film is a
triumph. I started watching the film fairly closed to feeling, but as I
watched the end I could not contain my tears, unusually.So a moment when a film came along at the right time for me, and no
doubt for many others

******
25 July 2012
9
"I have been thinking for a while to watch " Shawshank
Redemption"(1993) the number one movie on IMDb list 9.2/10,finally did
it, its a excellent example of good story telling ,one of the story
that makes u think and touches your soul, this movie is all about hope
,hope in bad times & not letting it go whatever is the situation ,hope
that one day u will have your laugh,hope to be loved again,hope to
achieve something big,hope to breath free. Andy Dufresne (Tim
Robbins)not only was hopeful for himself in the his bad time but made
his prison mates hopeful by providing them feel of freedom through
books and music,he also gave his best prison mate Red (Morgan Freeman)
reason to live once he made it out from the prison. and as Tim Robbins
says "hope is one of the good things and good things never dies".

******
17 June 2012
10
The greatness of this film is in its excellent presentation and
articulation of what lies deep within a human being that makes him/her
persevere against impossible odds, especially so when he/she is facing
a terrible injustice. This reminds me of Viktor Frankl's book 'Man's
Search for Meaning' based on his experiences in prison under far worse
conditions than depicted in this film. It is only under the harshest
and most extreme of circumstances that a sensitive and just human being
whose integrity is under attack will almost certainly face the question
of the meaning of his/her life and in general the meaning of life and
the meaning of freedom. The only real freedom that human beings have
lies in a creative response to the impossible but challenging
circumstances that one faces, and in that creative expression one finds
meaning. No one can give that freedom and no one can take away that
freedom  its source is within, and completely independent of external
circumstances and institutions. All institutions tend to inhibit this
freedom and instead 'confine' individuals so that they become
'institutionalized'. The prison is the toughest of all institutions.
But the tougher the conditions, the greater is the challenge and if
understood that way, the greater the rewards in finding meaning. But
until that is accomplished, one must have something essential and
substantial to believe in  call it hope or faith or self esteem  in
order to survive, for nothing is accomplished in death. At the same
time, the idea of death itself is the motivating force  a sense that
one could die without having achieved anything in life is the most
powerful life sustaining force itself  this is the most stupendous
paradox of human existence, something that was hinted at in Joseph
Heller's Catch 22. At the centre of this catch is the hope (a word much
abused) that one will find meaning even in the most hopeless of
conditions, that one will be able to forge something good out of the
entire BS that surrounds us. And that which is good lasts forever. That
is the true faith, not the false faith of the corrupt Warden, who in
this case is not only the proverbial 'devil who is fond of quoting from
the scriptures' but also gives the airs and appearances of one who is a
'man of God' only because of his fanatical devotion to the Bible. The
irony of it all is brought out superbly near the end. The ending was
the best part in a way because this story was no hopelessly fated
'Greek Tragedy', as the central message of the film was that hope
within one man can light up the hope in another who otherwise would
have given up, and that this evocation is a very powerful bond between
humans, in this case between two very different kind of humans, both by
background as well as race, but who become the best of friends because
they share something vital deep inside that makes them 'to get busy
living' rather than to 'get busy dying'. Finally, what makes this one
of the greatest movies is that it also has drama, adventure and action
which makes it appealing to a wide audience. For the serious, it can
revisited several times for the special kind of mood that it evokes  a
mood that is both uplifting as well as thought provoking.

******
12 June 2012
10
Best movie I ever saw. It's a pinnacle in humankind's endeavor in film
making and unbelievably without any special effects or fanfare. It's a
story about normal human beings. Direction, screenplay and acting all
are mind-boggling. Equally mind-boggling is how can this movie not get
an Oscar even after considering that jury at Academy awards makes huge
mistakes sometimes(remember "Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon"). In my
mind I've no doubt that even if "Avatar", "Titanic", "Return of the
King" and "Ben Hur" were all released in same year as this movie, the
Oscars for best film, best direction, best actor and best supporting
actor should all go to this movie. I've become a huge fan of Tim
Robbins (he is brilliant in "The Mystic River" too) and Morgan Freeman.
Also, let's not classify it as a prison movie since it's in a class of
its own. It exhausts all superlatives. If you haven't watched it, watch
it now. Who knows the world may end tomorrow :-).

******
10 June 2012
9
This title has to be one of the greatest films ever made. It is a
touching story of a man who is sent to prison for life for the accused
murdering of his wife and her lover. The story is so captivating and
completely differs from other prison films because of its heart.A defiant masterpiece which makes you enthralled within it from the
very beginning. Brilliantly acted by Tim Robbins and, of course, Morgan
Freeman as always. Brilliantly directed, scripted and the original
score was very, very good.I have watched it three times in the last year and I still can't get
enough of it. A defiant worth wile watch.

******
3 May 2012
10
Decided to check out IMDb topper as a time pass and was i glad i
did.One watch and "The Shawshank Redemption" has been added to my all
time top movies...The golden year of '94 which gave the world some of
the best films of all time didn't disappoint with this one...The cast
was superb...Tim Robbins is amazing and Morgan freeman again shows why
he is at the top.The bond between the main characters is well developed
and the climax is mind blowing.The movie gives genuine inspiration and
is more than suitable for repeated viewing when one feels down.I give
it full 10/10 as it gives u more than a regular film does.It shows the
importance of hope in life and why one should never loose it.The
Tagline tells it all - "FEAR CAN HOLD YOU PRISONER,HOPE CAN SET YOU
FREE"...

******
30 April 2012
10
The Shawshank Redemption is undoubtedly the best best movie ever. The
Oscar's biggest mistake was giving Forrest Gump the awards that
Shawshank deserved. Not to take credit from Forrest Gump which is also
an amazing movie, but it just can't compare to Shawshank. Morgan
Freeman arguably delivers his best performance and Tim Robbins gives a
performance that I feel is greatly underrated, and also deserved an
Oscar nomination. The films art direction adds to the story's beauty,
and gives off a feeling that fills you with hope. I remember seeing The
Shawshank Redemption on sale for $5 at Wal-Mart and thinking "I heard
this is good" so I bought it. Little did I know the film was worth more
than gold. I bought the film and put off watching it for a couple
weeks, not overly anticipating watching it, but finally decided to
watch it when I was bored. I am a gigantic movie buff, and have so many
movies it's almost pathetic, but The Shawshank Redemption changed my
entire view of film. Now, every time I watch a movie I can't help but
think "It can't beat Shawshank." Some people say that this movie is
overrated, but that's wrong. Shawshank is an actual work of art, to be
compared with works of DaVinci and Picasso. When people say this movie
makes them cry, they don't mean to say it's so sad, but that they
didn't know that something of such beauty could be conveyed on screen.
I believe that if everybody see's only one movie during their life, it
should be this one. See it now. After that, IMDb will seem like a whole
new website because every film will seem like a different movie. It is,
by the very definition of the word magnificent.

******
27 April 2012
8
Awesome movie, Based on the Stephen King novel, Shawshank Redemption is
a delight from first scene to last. The opening is a brilliantly done
sequence with Andy's (Tim Robbins) trial inter cut with his actions on
the night of his crime.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a man convicted of double murder who
is sent to jail, eventually befriending other lifers including Morgan
Freeman's Ellis Redding. Exceptionally handsome adaptation of Stephen
King's short story "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" (in the
film version, it's really Raquel Welch, not Rita, who aids in the
ultimate twist). On the surface, it's another prison-genre picture with
the usual stereotypes such as a rotten warden, a cruel guard, a few
homosexuals, and a quirky old-timer who doesn't want his parole.
However, the film's emotions run surprisingly deep, justice is well
served by the conclusion, and several of the cast members carve out
amazing, three- dimensional characterizations.

******
19 April 2012
10
I'll always remember watching this film when i was younger, it was one
of the first films that ever gave me that 'mind-blowing' experience you
sometimes get when you've seen a brilliant movie. Tim Robbins gives
what is undoubtedly for me his best performance as Andy, who is such an
inspiring character that you find yourself truly rooting for even in
the early stages of the film. Morgan Freeman gave a stellar
performance, arguably his best also, as Red, Andy's cell mate another
character you grow to love during this wonderful piece of cinema. This is a film i will never tire of, if you haven't watched it for
whatever reason, you should do! A solid 10/10 for me! enjoy.

******
17 April 2012
10
the Shawshank redemption should be played throughout the world in all
schools to teach people the hard life of prison but the bond between
friends and the idea of hope. Morgan freeman is a second to none actor
he lays the role perfectly and i could not think what the film would be
like without him. all the other actors perform perfectly. this movie is
a movie of inspiration and one of which will get people through harsh
times. this film always restores my faith in mankind i simply love it.
I first saw this film sitting on my brothers desk and i was intrigued
by the idea of a film set in prison where hope and other morale values
were the storyline instead of violence and havoc, this is a amazing
film which brings pride to the actors and crew who produced it. the
setting of the movie is one of perfection the Gothic grounds and the
stunning facilities astound me i'am finding it hard to put in to words
how much this film means to me i would say it is one of the greatest
film's ever made in my time and i love it.

******
4 April 2012
10
This movie was released when I was all of 9 years old. Lucky for me, I
didn't come across it until nearly 13 years after the fact. I have
always been a movie buff and, aside from that, a big fan of the
writings of Stephen King. I had read the short story the film is based
on and it led me to this film, which I was certainly aware of prior but
never checked out. Afterwards, I had a new list of benchmarks for
certain aspects of cinema.First and foremost was the story itself. The writing of this tale, in
screenplay form, is absolutely brilliant. The story is fleshed out
without lingering in certain areas it would have been easy to linger
in, and the pacing of the film is steady and constantly building
emotional atmosphere. From the early feelings of confusion and bitter
justice (as our main character is judged by his peers) to the dawning
realization of what Shawshank Penitentiary has to offer for it's masses
of convicted felons. It all flows fabulously, as the tale unwinds from
the darkest despair of prison life into the slowly building and
palpable hope Andy and Red seem to cultivate for the rest of the
prisoners. It's this humanity in the face of inhumane conditions that
is at the forefront of The Shawshank Redemption's impact.Second, but just as vital, was the casting. Tim Robbins has always
been, in my mind, a criminally underrated acting talent. He always
seems to carry a sense of outward vulnerability that belies an inner
strength, and in that conflict one always questions his motivation, his
reason for doing things. His skill set was married perfectly to the
character of Andy Dufrense, who instantly seems in mortal danger within
the walls of Shawshank but eventually rises above the concrete and
steel. Indeed, it's safe to say that, mentally at least, Andy spent
very little time in that prison.Morgan Freeman played the role of Red Redding in a manner that, I
think, no other actor could have done. He was not only a veteran of
Shawshank, he radiated a sense of calm wisdom and strong sense of
brotherhood amongst his fellow inmates that lend themselves very well
to Freeman's on-stage abilities. As a "man who can get things", Red is
instrumental in many inmates' lives in Shawshank. Offering a variety of
contraband items in return for the typical currency of incarcerated
peoples (cigarettes, petty cash), Red is as important a character as
Andy in terms of the film's overall message of hope despite
hopelessness. And Morgan Freeman was the best man for that job.The excellent acting doesn't end there. Bob Gunton, who seems to find a
niche in playing white-collar criminal types, portrays the warden of
Shawshank as a sinister, scheming man who hides his darker desires
behind the Bible and an arrogant, holier-than-thou attitude. William
Sadler is another outstanding character actor, similar to Gunton, whose
face is more popular than his name and who does a fine job as Heywood.
One of the more important supporting roles was that of the hard right
hand of the warden, Guard Officer Hadley, who was portrayed by Clancy
Brown, well known for his bad-ass-type roles. His no-nonsense,
hard-edged persona fits well and leaves you hating his character but
appreciating his ability to make you hate someone who doesn't exist.Beyond the writing and the acting, this movie was perfect in every
other aspect. I've seen it many times over the years, often turning to
it, perhaps subconsciously, during particularly rough or depressing
patches. I've very rarely come across a film that not only meets my
expectations, but exceeds them in a way that leaves me constantly
comparing future films to it. The Shawshank Redemption is one of those
films, where the outstanding story and the remarkable talents of
everyone involved combine to bring vivid fiction to life. A masterpiece
of modern film-making that has lost none of it's impact or relativity
nearly 20 years later.

******
28 March 2012
10
What is there to say about this movie, except it is a triumph in film
making. First of all anything narrated by Morgan Freeman you know is
going to be a great movie. A story of a life behind bars with no end,
this ordinary man turns Shawshank prison up side down. I think the fact
that this movie is so simple is also the reason it is so great. There
is no complicated cinematic techniques or special effects, just men
talking to each other. Tim Robbins shows us that the good guys can win
even when their livelihood has been taken away. Its the kind of movie
that just makes you smile on the inside and lets you appreciate the
simple things even if just for that day. The Shawshank Redemption is
definitely a movie everyone should see, only if just to brighten your
day. But I think in the future it will prove to be an important mark in
cinematic history.

******
17 February 2012
10
It has a formula that gives you this kick; Darn what a good movie! But
I need to say this, sometimes it happens.. So WHY do people love this
movie and rate it high, when, or WHY isn't the "smart" people declare
it like a a peace of art? Or do they?! Still I think it's darn
good...but I bet the producer(s) didn't expect that!Like when we vote, for anything, we need to follow our heart. This is a
typical movie that is worth every penny, every letter... and it's a
typical 90' movie! Oh.. there we have it! Between gone with the wind
and now, we NEED this! Love me as I am.. says the storyline, in my head
anyway. And I do, yes I do!

******
13 February 2012
10
I saw this movie for the first time 8 years ago. I just happened to see
it by chance on cable because I never heard about "The Shawshank
Redemption" before. After watching the movie I was immensely impressed
and positively surprised. Definitely this is the best movie I've ever
seen. The story, the direction and the cast (Specially Tim, Morgan and
Gil Bellows) are perfect! The Shawshank Redemption really deserves that
spot in the rankings. This movie is a "must see"! The movie not only offers a great viewing experience but also a lesson
to take home. Wish more movies are made in this fashion instead of the
blood and gore that people seem to appreciate nowadays.Thanks for reading this review.

******
24 January 2012
10
Shawshank redemption is probably one of the greatest movies out there
hands down. Its a story about a banker named Andy Dufresne who is
sentenced to life in prison for killing his wife and her secret
lover.At first for Andy it seems that life has taken a toll for the
worst while he goes through the first initial weeks in
Shawshank.Fortunately he befriends a group of the inmates over the
course of his time there. Mainly a character named Red who has some
push on things that go down in the prison. Red and Andy learn a lot of
lessons from each other and become really great friends over their
course of time at Shawshank. The dialogue in this movie is not only
enticing, but also has a bit of comic relief here and there. To me this
movie mainly revolves not only the character development of Andy as a
man sent to jail for life, but mainly about the human condition and
what it is like to no longer be a free man. Andy's' most important
lesson that he learns in Shawshank is that while they can take
virtually everything away from you including your pride and your
dignity, they can never take your Hope.

******
26 December 2011
9
If there was such a thing as a perfect movie, this is it. Of course,
for practical reasons, one cannot award a film ten stars out of ten,
because of the endless stream of new work demanding scrutiny. I'd like
also to start by quoting another well known film, which sums up my
opinion nicely. 'In many ways, the work of a critic is easy- we risk
very little, and thrive on negative criticism, which is amusing to
write and to read. But the harsh truth of the matter is that the
average piece of junk is probably more valuable than our criticism
designating it so'. This could not be closer to the truth. When it
comes down to the wire, critics risk everything in dishing out praise,
for fear of being ridiculed themselves.There can be no such danger with The Shawshank Redemption. It is an
eternal masterpiece, timeless and inspiring. I avoid being clichéd,
when it is at all possible to do so, but The Shawshank Redemption is
beautiful, masterfully acted, with just that right amount of
tenderness. This is a tale of moral courage, and the everlasting fight
for justice. As with other films of the genre, one can tell what will
happen, of course, but when you watch this film, you will time and
again be genuinely surprised, and maybe even shed a tear for the
persistence and unquenchable thirst of the human spirit. One leaps for
joy after watching this incredible film, at the knowledge that evil, in
all senses of the word, can, and will never triumph.Turning an eye to the technical side of things, just for a moment, I
can discern not one single badly executed shot. The Shawshank
Redemption is well written, and, as I have said before, brilliantly
acted. Characters that could be flat are all allowed to develop and
flourish, and the film is even better for it. The film grabs our
attention, right from the word go, with agitated shots of Andy looking
like he IS going to kill his wife. And the soundtrack. Well, there
isn't much to say; except that most of the music in this film is some
of the most beautiful I have ever heard.This is a deeply satisfying, wonderful, brilliant, fantastic, soulful
cinematic work. Watch it, if you haven't seen it, and if you have, you
must agree that this excellent film will be an eternal classic. There
are, of course, films that people will prefer, I myself am strongly
attracted to Subway, a 1985 film by Luc Besson, but for pure facial and
objective value, cinema does not get much better than this.

******
30 November 2011
9
If you want to see hope in its most poetic and dramatic sense, choose
The Shawshank Redemption. I commend it to everyone who thinks movies
are more than source of 'entertainment',that they are mirrors of life
and its moral lessons. I cannot find any other movie with such
compelling touch of hope, faith and love. You will understand what
redemption is, you will understand what a Fountain of Hope can do, if
we let it reign inside of us.From the production, to the timing, to the script, and the acting of
each character, The Shawshank Redemption gave justice to its box-office
title. It may have not won Best Picture but for me, it is the Best
Picture by far.

******
18 November 2011
10
Let me start out by saying that this is one of my personal all time
favorites and as such I may be a bit bias whole reviewing it. On the
other hand, there's a reason it's a personal favorite. The movie revolves around the wrongly imprisonment of Andy Dufrane
(played by Tim Robbins) for the murder of his wife. The story focuses
on Andy's life in prison, relationships with other inmates
(particularly with "Red" played perfectly by Morgan Freeman) and
passion for life and freedom. I recently had an argument with one of them regarding this movie. He
claimed it was "too plain" to be considered so great; my view was (and
is) that it maybe be plain, but it's superb. The movie touched me when
I saw it, Brooks' long life in prison (amazing acting by James
Whitmore), Red's pragmatic persona and Andy's unyielding will and hope,
all combines to an amazing movie.In my opinion this isn't some regular "feel good movie", it's much
more. It may be plain as my friend said, low on visual effects or
outstanding camera work  but it's plainly superb. The texts send
shivers down your spine, Frank Darabont's screenplay adaption to
Stephan King's short story are brilliantly executed by the amazing cast
and in the end that's what really matters.I was moved when the movie ended, viewed it and prison differently, I
expect it'll remain as a cult favorite despite the "no impressive
effects and mediocre camera work" as my friend put it.Go watch it if you haven't already, it's in my opinion one of the best
movies of all time.

******
11 September 2011
10
Plot: Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is a banker, convicted of a murder he
did not commit and sent to Shawshank prison. After two months of being
there, he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) 'a man who knows how to get
things'. The warden (Bob Gunton) uses Andy's banking skills for his
scams and turns out to be more ruthless than he thought. Andy spends
twenty years in prison before his legendary escape.This is said to be the best film ever made. I can see why. It is
defiantly my favourite film of all time. Some say it is too over rated
and that might be true but there's no doubt it is a fantastic and well
executed film. The acting is good. Morgan Freeman is an excellent
narrator. William Sadler is also good. You can't help but laugh with
Haywood.The Shawshank Redemption is a brilliant story of, hope, friendship and
obviously redemption. It also has a way of connecting with the viewer's
experiences. People relate their own life to the film and it helps
people deal with bad moments it their lives. This is not a film to
miss.

******
4 September 2011
10
I avoided seeing this film for years because I thought it was a grim
prison uprising tale from Stephen King. Well, I was one third right, it
is set in a prison but it is a very good story about friendship,
honesty, forgiveness/redemption, patience and loyalty. I'm going to
really try and not give away too much of the film because if you
haven't seen it yet, you are missing out on a great story. It's set in
a prison in the late 40's. Some of the inmates have been there since
the early part of the 20th century and with repeated parole denials and
no rehabilitation in sight, many have been institutionalized and have
lost hope and even lost sight of their own identity. When one such
inmate is released, he walks into a world that he barely recognizes. He
tries but in the end, fails to make it in the real world and succumbs
to desperation and hopelessness. We see some of the guards greedily
taking part in violence that is so vicious that it is difficult to
discern the prisoners from the prison staff. But, ultimately it is a
tale of redemption and the story unfolds with hardship, humor and
grace. This is a film that I will see again and again.

******
25 July 2011
10
what a narration..???,One of my all time favorites. Shawshank
Redemption is a very moving story about hope and the power of
friendship. The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great
performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob
Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison
guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an
elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every
actor at least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As
well as a very surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me
out of my chair.

******
21 June 2011
10
EDITEDIn 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont.what a spectacular movie it is. i remember seeing this movie when i was
a child but couldn't remember much of it so i decided to watch this
movie now once again. people are not crazy when they think it is one of
the best movies of all time. almost half of the world population might
have seen it, maybe the second most loved movie after The Godfather.one of my very most favorite movies of all time, one of the best movies
ever made, a highlight of 1994. this truly is an Masterpiece, a pure
work of genius. a near perfect classic movie. a movie that will never
get old, a memorable movie. will always be remembered. it was nominated
for 7 Oscars unfortunately didn't won any, Best Picture, Adapted
Screenplay, Cinematography, Editing, Sound, Original Score and Actor in
a Lead Role Morgan Freeman. Best Picture that year wen't to Forrest
Gump.story of this movie just so wonderful with so much to say in layers. it
is story of Tim Robbins as Andy who is been falsely accused of murder
is being jailed in Shawshank, there he meet Morgan Freeman as Red, he
and other cellmates becomes friend. Andy is a weird and unique inmate
there which when i found what he did or was doing just shocked me, he
is jaw dropingly genius. he becomes a personal banker to a corrupt and
very cruel warden sameul played by Bob Gunton and his other men. he
secretly works on his own legal case while he is educating and trying
to improve lives of his other cell mates, he makes them read and study
since he himself is an educated man. he escapes from jail too in the
end, which is an epic scene to me.this movie stars Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Bob Gunton, Bill Sadler,
Clancy Brown , James Whitmore , Gil Bellows , Mark Rolston , Jeffrey
DeMunn , Dion Anderson , Ned Bellamy , Bill Bolender , Larry
Brandenburg , Brian Brophy and others. Tim Robbins gave a good
performance, just like he did in Mystic River but this time you may see
him smile too. i like his performance, did justice to his character. i
liked him when i saw this movie first. then there is Mr. Morgan Freeman
as Red which according to me was a 100% perfect casting, he was very
good in his character, delivered a very good performance. this movie
overall features good performances. and i like both the characters of
both Andy and Red, memorable characters they are. and also their
chemistry was so good in this movie.Directed by Frank Darabont whose only movie i remember after this one
is The Green Mile and TV Series The Walking Dead. he really did a good
job in this movie, superb work indeed. truly impressive. screenplay of
this movie is excellently written. superbly executed. you will love the
way this movie grows on you completely and completely takes over. i was
hooked to this movie. Editing of this movie was really good. good
cinematography and art direction. just a good of everything. good score
too ofciurse.this is one of the best prison movies, a truly heart touching,
inspiring, uplifting thought provoking, timeless, sad movie that will
be loved by every person with a soul in them. a very moving movie. i
loved it truly, very lovable movie that i don't even need to recommend
it to you. Most of you have seen it but if by any chance not, THE A
MUST MUST WATCH.

******
1 June 2011
9
I Watched the movie 16 years after its release. I must admit that i
watched it out Of curiosity for its being on the top of the IMDb list.
I wasn't disappointed. Rather felt a sense of victory. It doesn't have
any action sequences or any romance or Anything of the sort. But it is
one of those films that makes you feel Happy inside and yet sad that
you may live many more years and watch Tons of movies but never feel
the same climax or emotion that you get Out of this movie. This movie
had the most powerful cast and amazing script, and all based on an
awesome prison drama novel by horror-master Stephen King!Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sent to Shawshank State Penitentiary in
1947 for the cold-blooded murder of his wife and her lover. Over the
next 19 years, he does what he can to stay above the mire, consisting
not only of the cruelty of his fellow inmates but the heavy hand of a
brutal warden, Norton (Bob Gunton), a sadist who thumps his Bible while
telling his charges that "salvation lies within." Andy's stubborn
refusal to give up hope in the face of his incarceration engenders the
wonder and friendship of several inmates, especially "Red" Redding
(Morgan Freeman), who nevertheless wonders about Andy's state of mind.Robbins depicts Andy Dufresne to be a reserved, humble protagonist. It
is well-known that other actors were considered to play this role, such
as Tom Hanks, but I believe Robbins's presence works wonders for the
storyline, allowing Andy to have a quiet temperament that lets him seem
at peace with himself. He has nothing on his resume close to his
performance here. Freeman puts on arguably the greatest performance of
his lifetime in this movie. His narration lets the viewer connect even
further with all the characters, and has a poignance that stays with
you long after the credits roll. His "rehabilitated" speech ranks right
up there as one of the all-time great movie moments.Character development is greatly utilized here. Pop culture references
(Rita Hayworth, Hank Williams, John F. Kennedy) help give one the
impression of the passage of years, and Andy's brave, witty exploits
make him a likable hero. Violence and death are also put to use, with
several characters dying within the story. We are made to embrace these
seemingly real individuals during their airtime, and are hence moved by
their tragic deaths. The failures of these characters make the final
scenes of the film all the sweeter.Another standout feature of The Shawshank Redemption is the music. Oh,
the music! Thomas Newman's musical score shines brightly and lends
another dimension to this heartfelt tale. The triumphant piece heard at
the end is one that you've likely heard before  as it has been used in
movie trailers all over the world. The fact that The Shawshank
Redemption did not win an Oscar for its musical score (or in any
category for that matter) is almost incomprehensible. Though in a '94
class along with Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction, and The Lion King, I
suppose it can be understood.I will note that it is a definite 'must see' for all those who consider
themselves "movie connoisseurs". There are not too many negatives (if
any) that can be said on the film. I will state, however, it's current
#1 ranking on the IMDb Top 250 is a little bit high though.I guess I'm a little nit-picky, but my main beef is with the ending.
The whole movie is about hope. *SPOILERS ALERT* If you wanted hope,
then you should not have ended on a cheesy last scene where the old
friends reunite and everything is alright. *SPOILERS END* It was
touching, no doubt about it, but then the message of hope is dwarfed by
our excitement that the two friends are together again. We leave the
movie smiling instead of thinking. What I'm trying to say is that to
make the core message stick to the viewers, the movie should have ended
the scene before, when Red boards the bus and says, "I hope I can make
it across the border. I hope to see my friend and shake his hand. I
hope the Pacific is as blue as it has been in my dreams I hope." And
as the bus drives away from the camera, the credits roll. But again,
that's only an honest opinion.Watch this film alone and with attention and it will really get you
involved and thinking and thats the beauty of it. I recommend it to
everyone who enjoys watching beautiful cinema. I rate it 9 out of 10.For the end i leave Andy Dufresne's quote "Hope is a good thing, maybe
the best of things, and no good thing ever dies"

******
21 May 2011
10
Stephen King's powerful prison drama story is brought to life, with
Frank Darabont's "The Shawshank Redemption". The movie tells the story
of Andy Dufresne, portrayed brilliantly by Tim Robbins, who is sent to
Shawshank prison, when framed as the murderer of his wife, and her
affair lover. During his time in prison, Andy makes an unlikely
friendship with smoke dealer "Red", portrayed by the astounding Morgan
Freeman, who does an excellent job of guiding the movie with his
smoothing, and confident narration. Now, the rest of the movie talks
about Andy's struggle to try and break free from Shawshank, and the
unexpected friendship between two different people. This movie is an
astounding masterpiece, that can only be spoken through the words of
the mysteriously defying Stephen King. Director Frank Darabont helped
bring King's vision to life on the screen, and he performed an
excellent job as a director, and a writer. Also, the cast is such a
true miracle, that the movie was able to get the finest actors to play
the most finest cinematic roles. Tim Robbins is excellent, Morgan
Freeman is astounding, Bob Gunton is brilliant, and James Whitmore
plays such a dramatic small role as "Brooks", the Shawshank librarian.
Also, I enjoyed Thomas Newman's breathtaking score, the perfect
cinematography, the excellent use of film editing, and the spectacular
script. I respected every single moment in this movie, and it had me
wanting for more. "The Shawshank Redemption" is one of the best movies
ever made, and I have never seen a movie with so much heart before,
even though of it's slow 142 minute run-time. "The Shawshank
Redemption", in my review, "a stunning masterpiece, entertainment at
its finest".

******
10 May 2011
9
What can be said that already hasn't been. Shawshank Redemption is a
spectacular film which focuses on Hope and fear. Morgan Freeman does
what he always does, delivers a fine, unforgettable performance. With a
voice like that it extremely hard too. As Red, Freeman narrates the
tale of how a man wrongly accused of Murder, is sent to life in prison
and has nothing but hope to cling on.Stephen King epitomise great storytelling. You don't need twists every
scene nor do we need a complex plot that tries to hard to stand out.
With colourful characters and fantastic interactions, a story can truly
become personal. OK, many here has probably never been sent to prison
for something they didn't do but this doesn't stop anyone from
imagining the fear and hopelessness that one must go through when
stripped from their freedom and rights.There only few films out there that makes the most out off every shot.
Shawshank is one of those. There not one wasted second, no scene which
could or should of been cut from the final version. Everything is done
to perfection. You can feel and sense the delinquency and effort put
into the film which luckily for us, makes the viewing that extra
special.Pointless it may seem, writing a review for a film which has already
been critique to death, but heck, a little more praise won't do any
harm. Yes, you will get your snobs who will bang on about how this film
doesn't deserve to be number one, but those are the ones who believe a
story must be plagued by thought provoking twists. All i have to say is
that Shawshank is a heart warming tale that will no doubt leave you in
a fuzzy ball of warmth and amazement when the credits begin to roll
down on this extraordinary tale

******
1 May 2011
9
"The Shawshank Redemption" isn't only a movie these days; it's a
statement of purpose for underdogs and anyone who ever felt trapped
underfoot by a system they didn't understand. Yet watching the film
with that knowledge doesn't obscure the fact it is a highly satisfying
emotional thrill ride worth taking again and again.Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sent to Shawshank State Penitentiary in
1947 for the cold-blooded murder of his wife and her lover. Over the
next 19 years, he does what he can to stay above the mire, consisting
not only of the cruelty of his fellow inmates but the heavy hand of a
brutal warden, Norton (Bob Gunton), a sadist who thumps his Bible while
telling his charges that "salvation lies within." Andy's stubborn
refusal to give up hope in the face of his incarceration engenders the
wonder and friendship of several inmates, especially "Red" Redding
(Morgan Freeman), who nevertheless wonders about Andy's state of mind."Hope can drive a man insane," Red warns Andy. "It's got no use on the
inside." Andy doesn't agree.It's true what other commenters say: You can't pass two-and-a-half
hours much more quickly than by watching this. There's enough
cleverness, good humor, and uplift to power five Hollywood
blockbusters, and terrific acting from the stars to the day players.
Based on the Stephen King novella, "Rita Hayworth And Shawshank
Redemption," it's the gold standard of King adaptations thanks to the
powerhouse work of writer and first-time director Frank Darabont, who
uses Freeman's narration to inject King's voice into the proceedings.Robbins is a great lead, physically towering over the rest of his cast,
his quiet authority reminiscent of James Stewart, whose famous film
"Harvey" Dufresne even references at one key moment. But Freeman is the
film's secret strength, playing "the guy who can get it for you" with a
note of welcome ambiguity. Watching him in an early scene, when a fat,
new convict ("fresh fish") is being beaten by cruel head guard Captain
Hadley (Clancy Brown), you don't know whether Red looks so crestfallen
for the victim or for the packs of cigarettes he just lost betting the
guy wouldn't break before Dufresne."Shawshank" is otherwise not ambiguous at all. The bad guys are vile,
justice is served up on a heaping platter, and a final scene is too
on-the-money for its own good. But the ride getting there is so true
and natural, so minutely well calibrated with its lived-in details,
that you can't really deny this film's classic status, nor want to.
It's a deserving King Of The Hill for the IMDb 250.But why is it so highly regarded beyond that, as a film whose message
touches so many so deeply? Like so many others, I think the notion of
Shawshank prison as a metaphor for life has much to do with it, the
idea that however dark and embroiled in life's miseries we become, its
belief that "a warm place without memory" is not out of reach pulls us
in. You can see a religious message in such a notion if you are so
inclined, and many are, yet the film is clever enough to work on other
levels, too.Finally, it's a great story, well told. People will always have a need
for such stories, especially when the things they tell us are as fine
and noble as they are here. Andy wants out of "Shawshank" bad, but for
viewers it turns out being a fine place to serve time in.

******
13 April 2011
10
Stephen King is my favourite author and I like most of his books and
love some as well. One of the defining features of his books is the
characterisation and the atmosphere. No one does it better. This leads
to his books being long and slow some times but that's the part of it.
This normally doesn't transfer well to cinema where everything is cut
and compressed. This movie is better than the book. I read the book and
I was impressed I saw the movie and I fell in love with it.The movie focuses on the two main characters and the side stories
enhances their character brilliantly. All what comes before ties in to
the end. One of the greatest effect in the movie along with the
atmosphere is the soundtrack. It plucks at you, it pulls at you and it
lulls you in to a world where all that you see flows with it, smiles
with it and cries with it.I wont talk about the story since now after so many reviews we are at a
stage where we can talk about other features of this movie. There are
many great moments in the movie including the two stage ending, both
stages immensely enjoyable every time for different reasons. Another
great moment for me is the release of Brooks Hatlen from prison. His
dialogue delivery (the world went ahead and got itself in to one BIG
DAMN hurry) and acting is brilliant at that moment and is perfectly
captured further ahead in the movie when Red facing similar
circumstances confesses, "Terrible thing to live in fear" The same
fear can be glimpsed when Red glances fearfully over a stone wall in
Buxton to see if he is being pursued or spied upon while he reads a
letter. (Great acting and direction) This movie is about hope and friendship. Those of us who have seen it
many times, enough to even forget the count are touched by it every
time. We now see the movie in its entirety and every magical scene is
impressed upon our memory because this is art. The message of eternal
hope is wonderfully characterised in Andy and that of friendship in
Red.

******
13 January 2011
10
I have this film on DVD and it's one of my favourites. That said, it's
been several years since I sat down and watched it and I hoped it was
still as good as I remembered. It might be worth pointing out here that
I've been a huge Stephen King fan since I was at school, probably a
good 30 years all told. I have every book in general circulation, and
I've read a lot of them more than once. Different Seasons must have
been one of the first books of his that I bought when it first came
out, way back in '82 or '83. It's a collection of four unrelated
novellas, other than that each title has a different season mentioned
in the subtitle. The first of the novellas is Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption: Hope Springs Eternal, and it is, in my opinion,
by far the best. If you haven't read it, I would thoroughly recommend
it, particularly if you haven't seen the film as the movie stuck pretty
closely to the original story so there won't be many surprises in store
for you otherwise. Incidentally, if you've ever seen Rob Reiner's movie
Stand by Me or Bryan Singer's Apt Pupil you'll find two of the other
stories in the collection pretty familiar too. But I digress, back to
the movie in question.I wasn't disappointed. This is undoubtedly a great movie and thoroughly
deserves it's place at the top of the list. The performances from Tim
Robbins & Morgan Freeman are superb and the friendship between their
characters develops over 20 years or so is entirely believable. You see
them, particularly Freeman, get gradually broken and institutionalised
as the film plays out. And then, of course, you get that fantastic
feel- good ending that you really wanted, but somehow never actually
expected. But it's not just the performances from Robbins and Freeman
that delight. Both Bob Gunton, the sadistic and greedy warden who
somehow believes he is doing God's work, and Clancy Brown (remember him
as the Kurgan in Highlander?) as the equally sadistic, almost
sociopathic Captain Hadley, give wonderfully sinister performances.Most of the other prisoners, with the possible exception of James
Whitmore's Brooks, are fairly two-dimensional, but then the director
almost seems to gloss over them deliberately to keep the viewer's
attention firmly directed towards the two leads and their developing
bond.The film begins in the 1940s, and continues on until the 1960s so it
was essentially a period piece when it was made. This has stopped it
becoming dated in any way. Also, because it's set in a prison which
appears almost completely isolated from the outside word, the passage
of time is easy to miss. The movie is as engrossing now as it was 15+
years ago when it was first released. At two and quarter hours, it's
probably one of the longer films in the list (although by no means the
longest), but it keeps the viewer's attention for the full duration,
and never seems to lose its sense of direction. Every scene pushes the
plot forward in some way.A definite 10/10 from me, and thoroughly recommended.

******
11 January 2011
10
Movies simply do not get better than this.Inspiring, captivating, intense, funny (at times), tragic (at times).
Interesting and thrilling.Every aspect of this movie is perfection: the acting, story, dialog,
production, setting, cinematography, etc... all perfect.This film is truly flawless.I could not describe this movie as "fun" but I would describe it is
unparalleled in its excellence- and not in some stupid artsy sense-
just plain and simple it is story telling at its finest.If you haven't seen this movie, you absolutely need to watch it right
now. Fantastic. I wish I could give it a higher rating than 10 out of
10 stars.

******
18 November 2010
9
The first time I watched this film I was on a coach heading to the
french Alps in year 8 of school. I loved it from the first moment. A
few weeks later when I discovered the title of the film I went out and
brought it, (or more correctly had it brought as I wasn't old enough).
It remains one of my favourite films in my collection.Why do I think this is one of the best films ever, it comes down to the
telling of a great story, in a great way, by great actors. From the
moment the film begins your sucked in, the audience is made to connect
with the events we see on screen thanks to the soulful voice of the
great Morgan Freeman, he has the ability to help us relate with events
and almost forget we are watching a film, but instead listening to a
story from a much loved grandparent. When he speaks the audience
definitely listens.However Morgan is by no means the star. The less well known but equally
talented Tim Robbins, his performance of Andy Dufresne, is in my
opinion one of the all time greats. The way in which the character
attempts to retain dignity and his humanity, instead of being twisted
into the archetypal convict is reason enough for this film to be in the
IMDb top 250. The way at which Dufresne strives to improve his and the
other convicts leaves you with a taste on the honourably of the
character, or his rebellious acts toward the Warden just to provide the
inmates with a piece of music is a scene which you remember just
because of its shear brilliance. Which reminds me big thanks to Steven King for writing the book this
film was based on, you did good, like you normally do.No one could review this film without mentioning James Whiymore who
plays the tragic figure of Brookes, the old lovable inmate. The sad
tale of the man who had spent his life in prison and dies in freedom is
the emotional heart of the film, I feel sad every time I watch it.
James Whitmore was truly a great actor, this film proves it. Th story never gets tedious no matter how many time you watch it, and
if its your first time watching be set for a treat.The best thing I can say about this film is watch it, and the only
problem you'll have is trying to get across to your friends exactly why
the need to see this great piece of cinema

******
17 November 2010
10
..voice of total respect for this movie.Everything is absolutely fantastic in this master piece. Casting,
acting, photography, music, sounds, feel, atmosphere, screenplay, all
that is beyond good, it is perfect. Whole movie is immersed in such a
delight it really helps if you are feeling down to lift you up. And
that is what movies should be all about. Not about damn effects and 3d.
As many said before it really lift your spirits up. It gives such a
profound feel of hope and happiness, and beyond. And there is another great value of this movie. It proves that
sometimes in this lifetime Hollywood is capable to create master piece.
It is one but that one speaks for thousands of those we do not get to
see. No effects, no damn computer graphics, no faster then light action
scenes, and yet after watching it you feel million times better than
any other movie.It deserves 11 stars.

******
22 October 2010
10
This is my 1st review on IMDb , i don't like writing reviews for a
movie after all it's just a movie.....you see a movie and you forget...
95% of the movies you see and you forget soon, well this movie really
moves you and some of it remains with you ....gives you a great deal of
idea how the real world is... each time you see it you feel light and
get a feeling of satisfaction .... and more over if you like Morgan
free-man you'll love of him after this one.... GREAT MOVIE... used to
wonder why is it so highly rated.... well after seeing it.... i don't
want to let the rating fall so i added mine and given it what it
deserves...and i hope it remains at the top... i would like to thank
the film maker and the production as a fan for a wonderful experience i
got after seeing this movie :)

******
7 October 2010
10
You know it's really not the most entertaining movie ever made. you
might look around the theater and see people yawning or even sleeping i
guess it's not avatar where you get CGI things or these 3D animation
movie they make these days nor any batman or superman thing to thrill
you with the action. What makes this motion picture special is that you
will grow to love this movie , the first time you walk out of threatre
you may not think of it as the greatest movie ever made , but there's
something about it which makes you see it again and again and each time
you see it you learn something new from it. you may be impressed by
these great budget movie they make these days but you surely wont watch
it a hundred times literally. Count my words you will watch this movie
that many times. It's a story about hope as many people have already
said in the review also about friendship and almost all these great
human emotions. Great great soundtrack by thomas newton is like a
cherry on the cake.The movie is so realistic and so much real at places it actually makes
you angry, yet it's not a depressing movie like schindler's list or a
fairy tale one like forrest gump , it's just a story which gives you
hope and strength to face life and value it. believe me lol i have
watched a lot of movies and this IS THE BEST ONE.

******
3 September 2010
9
Off the hop, I don't mean to upset people with a 9 out of 10 rating. In
my world, nobody gets a 10; there is always room for improvement. Mind
you, this movie comes very very close to a 10.I knew nothing of the movie before watching it and was picking my jaw
up off the floor upon completion. The amount of situations and
experiences I could relate to and empathize with was incredible. The
simplicity of the message within the complication of human interaction
and misunderstanding. It was a shocker. The extent of rawness people
can portray towards each other versus the compassion was wound together
like yin and yang. We can't really have one without the other.Since, I have seen this movie several times. Each time, I still find
something new to ponder if it was intentionally placed, or just happens
to fit.I highly recommend this movie to believe in the power of the human
spirit and magnitude of motivation brought on by friends.

******
20 August 2010
10
In 1995, when I was fourteen, out of the blue, I saw in a newspaper,
that one of my favorite Stephen King stories, Rita Hayworth and the
Shawshank Redemption, had finally made its way to the silver screen.It wasn't showing at the Hoyts/Greater Union cinemas, rather a local
independent/art-house cinema. Of course, that didn't bother me so I
went. Over 2hours long, Shawshank swept you into another world. Stephen
King's short-novel was very faithfully adapted. Three pieces of
brilliance stood out then, and still do today. 1 First, the film was brilliantly paced, never a dull moment. Having
read the short-novel before hand didn't diminish any expectations. 2 Second a brilliant cast. Sheer brilliance from Morgan Freeman, and
Tim Robbins, as Red and Andy Dufresne. Very strong supporting cast in
Bob Gunton - the cruel Warden Sam Norton, other inmates: Gill Bellows
as young Tommy Williams, James Whitmore, the elderly Brooks (brilliant
expansion of character, that short novel only dealt with in two
paragraphs). Yet the show was stolen by Clancy Brown. Brown's legendary
performance as Captain Bryon Hadley, one guy you clearly didn't want on
your case! 3 Finally what remains in my mind the most, from Red's last
parole-hearing, to the end of the film. Words can't simply convey the
emotions, this was what I didn't except. It was so powerfully done. My
favorite quote: Andy Dufresne: "Get busy living, or get busy dying. "
Enough said.

******
8 August 2010
8
You go into a film hoping to be entertained. That's the least you can
expect. If a film manages not only to entertain but also to inspire
then you've really got something. Such is the case with The Shawshank
Redemption. Few movies are as inspiring and uplifting as this tale
of...an innocent man rotting away in prison? Well that doesn't sound
particularly inspiring. Sounds depressing even. But this movie will
surprise you. At times along the way it is rather bleak, things seem
hopeless. But the movie's hero never gives up hope. He is not content
to sit in prison and rot. Get busy living or get busy dying. Is there
ever really any doubt which of those options Andy Dufresne will choose?In 1947 Andy, a banker on the outside, is sent to Shawshank State
Penitentiary for life after being wrongly convicted of murdering his
wife and her lover. He befriends a prisoner named Red, a man popular
amongst his fellow inmates because Red is the man who can get things.
Most of the men want the typical prison contraband. Cigarettes are the
big item. Andy's different. He wants a tiny little rock hammer to
maintain his rock collection. And later he asks for a Rita Hayworth
poster. As the years go by Rita becomes Marilyn, Marilyn becomes
Raquel. It's as good a way as any to mark the passage of time. Time
marches on. The world moves on. But the men of Shawshank are left
behind. That would be hard enough to take even if you were stone-cold
guilty, a menace to society. For an innocent man like Andy Dufresne?
You wonder how he cannot be utterly defeated by life. Yet somehow he
maintains a sense of calm and a great inner strength. There's something
about this guy.What exactly is it about Andy Dufresne? Hard to say because the story
is never really told through his eyes but rather through those of his
friend Red. We come to know Andy only to the extent that Red does. And
for this story that setup really works. Tim Robbins is excellent in the
role of Andy, the film's hero figure, but Morgan Freeman has perhaps
the more challenging job in playing Red. Freeman's character serves as
the audience's eyes and ears. And he also serves as the movie's voice.
Extensive use of voice-over narration in films can be an iffy
proposition, often proving more distracting than helpful. But Freeman's
voice, Red's voice really, narrates this story beautifully. Playing off
one another wonderfully Robbins and Freeman make a terrific team. This
is a movie content to let its two main characters just sit around and
talk. True, there's not much else to do inside those prison walls. But
some of the shared moments between Andy and Red are as poignant as any
you'll see in any film and the two actors deserve their due credit for
making it so.You wouldn't go so far as to call it slow but the movie certainly
proceeds at a deliberate pace. This is a story which takes its time in
letting you know where it is ultimately headed. It's essentially Andy's
story, as told by Red. But there is room for some other characters to
carve out their place as well. Most touching is the story of elderly
prisoner Brooks, as played beautifully by James Whitmore. His little
story within the story definitely tugs on the heartstrings. Of course
for any movie to truly succeed there has to be some conflict and for
that we have guard Byron Hadley and warden Samuel Norton. At least
Hadley is upfront in his evilness. Norton's one of film history's
biggest hypocrites, walking around the prison spouting Bible verses all
the while being engaged in all manner of unseemly activities. This is a
man who needs a comeuppance. But in the world of Shawshank it is Norton
who has all the power. This is a story seemingly destined for a very
unhappy ending. The righteous man does not seem at all likely to
prevail. But, slowly but surely, the movie continues to build towards
something. What that something will be you can't quite be sure. But
when the moment comes where all is revealed the film's ultimate triumph
is secured. For you have seen not only an entertaining and utterly
compelling story. You've seen something which can't help but make you
feel better about life in general. This is a movie to see when you need
to have a little of your faith in humanity restored. It may not be, as
it is in some places proclaimed to be, the best movie ever made. But is
an undeniably excellent movie which has rightfully become rather
beloved by most everyone who sees it.

******
8 August 2010
8
this movie is all about that great story King wrote, that with great
cinematic expression, great acting, great sub plots, this is a movie
you can see many and many times in your life and every single time you
see it, it will deliver emotional good feelings...Andy Dufresne's expression on his face through out the whole movie is
incredible, the very old guy with the bird, he's just perfect, i feel
like he's my grandpa or something, you just can't help to not love him,
his character is the one that really got me emotional... Morgan Freeman
is great like in all his films, you just can't think of a better
casting... i love this filmi'm not quite sure if it deserves to be #1 on the top 250 IMDb list,
but well, you decide... hope you love it as much as i do !

******
25 July 2010
10
For a long time now I had seen this movie move up the IMDb ladder and
make its way to becoming #1, I was a bit irritated being that it took
the spot of "The Godfather" however, this was before I had ever laid my
eyes on even a trailer for this film, so I researched through the
credits and found out that it was based on a novel by one of my
favorite writers "Stephen King", I know what your thinking, how could
he be one of my favorite writers if I didn't even have a clue about
this Masterpiece. July 24, 2010 was my movie day, I promised myself I
was going to stay up 24 Hours watching some of my favorite Films, I
started of at around 12:45 with the controversial, sadistic, genius,
masterpiece that is "A Clockwork Orange", then after my brain was
through with Ultra-Violence I proceeded watching the best sequel ever
made in the History of cinema "The Godfather Part II", then after I
felt like a Corleone I started watching the Coen Brothers Masterpiece
"No Country For Old Men", then after feeling lost I started watching
"Pulp Fiction" and after that the time was around 4:30 P.M. and I broke
my promise to myself and took what I thought was going to be a 2 Hour
Nap which turned into a 6 Hour Intermission, I woke up around 10:00
deciding which movie I was going to watch and I wanted it to be a
Classic I had never seen, I was thinking "12 Angry Men" but for some
reason I wanted to see what the all this fuss was about when it came to
Shawkshank Redemption" so I rented it and started watching around 11:45
P.M., Let me just say after this movie left an Impact in my Life and
Mind, I now actually know why it is #1 on this site and it is for good
reason, this movie made me laugh hysterically at times like in "Animal
House", it made me think like "Fight Club" does at times, it made me
frightened like "The Shining" at times and I have no other movie to
reference my Sobbing emotions with because no other film has made me
Cry, and that should tell you that after a day of Great Films this one
had the biggest Impact on me.

******
21 June 2010
10
I have seen this movie about 6 times and I get stunned every time. Now
has past one year since I last saw her, so it got me thinking; what is
so good about this film? is'it the story? the director? the actors? or
maybe just all of this things?. I mean what makes this the best movie
ever made?? Is'it the feel-good feeling in the end? I don't know a
person whose does't feel good after this movie. Tim's and Morgans's
performances both deserved Oscar, but I'm not gonna take'it from Tom
Hank's that his performance in Forres Gump also deserved Oscar. So if
anyone can tell me the ONE thing that make's this the best movie ever
made.

******
14 March 2010
10
The Shawshank Redemption.The best movie i have seen yet.Its adapted
from a novel by Stephen King but this is a special film even better
than the novel i suppose.Best adaptation yet to walk through in
International Cinema.The great camaraderie between Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman is very
difficult to surpass.Wow!!What an on screen display by both of them. If
Robbins was fantastic then Morgan was emphatic.Brilliant acting by Tim
Robbins.The best by him so far.Even he would admit.Morgan Freeman comes
out with an en-lighted performance.His dialogs in the film are truly
inspiring & heart aching.Fantastic work by him.An epitome of
performance by Morgan Freeman.The rest of the casting is good.James
Whitmore as Brooks is a revelation,so is Bob Gunton as the warden.The plot is superb.Ending is classy.You can never make out what
happened in the end.Its such a travesty that you have to watch it
again.The directorial of Frank Darabont is top stuff whereas the
screenplay by him is very much adulated.The dialogs are so memorable
you will always carry them along.Here are some of the best dialogs from
this:Andy Dufresne: They say it has no memory. That's where I want to live
the rest of my life. A warm place with no memory.Red: Let me tell you something my friend. Hope is a dangerous thing.
Hope can drive a man insane. Andy Dufresne: That's the beauty of music. They can't get that from
you... Haven't you ever felt that way about music? Red: We sat and drank with the sun on our shoulders and felt like free
men.This movie is the epitome of all others.No movie can emulate the
camaraderie between that of those two Shawshank Prisoners.Must watch
for a fabulous & thrilling experience.

******
25 January 2010
10
Acted out perfectly by every cast member, under the watchful eye of
Frank Darabont, the story of a man who brings hope to the grey walls of
Shawshank prison becomes so much more than a prison movie. The first
time I ever saw "The Shawshank Redemption", I knew nothing about it,
and was utterly unprepared for it's effect. Within the first ten
minutes, I was utterly drawn in, unable to pull my eyes away from the
screen. By the end of the first hour, I couldn't even think about
pausing or stopping this film. I spent the last fifteen minutes crying
my eyes out at the sheer emotion in those minutes. Morgan Freeman
out-does his every role previous and every role since as Red, while Tim
Robbins, quiet and intense, leads the cast as Andy. This film been
regarded for more than fifteen years as one of the greatest to ever
emerge from cinema. It is a story of corruption, and of justice. A
story of imprisonment and of freedom. A story of despair and of hope.
More even, than all of that, "Shawshank" is a story of humanity, and
one that will stay with whomever watches it for a very, very, long
time.

******
12 January 2010
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" did not win "Best Picture" because it will
remain to be an example of how a movie does NOT need to win some sort
of "award" top be considered one of the most prolific experiences an
acting production can make someone go through. This is not just a movie...It's an experience that everyone need to
partake in. I have maybe only seen about 450-500 major motion pictures
with about 80% of them being produced after 1980, BUT THIS IS THE ONLY
MOVIE OUT OF ALL WHERE I ACTUALLY FORGET THESE ARE ACTORS ACTING IN
FRONT OF A CAMERA WITH A MOVIE CREW. Do you know what that means? --It
means not only Frank Darabont, but every single person involved in this
film fused so well that they truly made a piece of artwork that puts
people in such an emotional trance they forget whats happening for 2
hours. THIS IS WHAT EVERY DIRECTOR AND PERSON WHO WORKS IN THE FILM
BUSINESS DREAMS ABOUT...MAKING A MOVIE THIS GROUNDBREAKING."The Shawshank Redemption" will show you how true friendship can arise
from anywhere...Even in a prison--where people fear the most to be in.
--Maybe it shows the intrinsic drive humans have to create a social
bond in any situation.Sometimes when I talk about this movie to people I feel really
disturbed when someone has not seen it. I feel like saying "are you
insane?"

******
11 January 2010
10
I used to like action movies more than anything else. I watched
Shawshank Redemption in 2007. When I watched it for the first time I
did not know that it is a great movie. When I watched it for the second
time I felt that it should be one of the greatest movies. For the first
time checked IMDb's top 250 movies and I amazed to see Shawshank
Redemption at number two, anyway, it's number one at present.The performances of all the artists are excellent. Not a single
character is waste. Especially Tim Robins excels as Andy Dufresne.
Narration by Morgan Freeman is sensational. The scenes between Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robins are by far the best. The ending is one of best
surprises I have seen in movies.This movie should have got the Ascar.I give 10 out of 10 for this phenomenal movie.

******
10 January 2010
10
Seeing Shawshank as the IMDb #1 did not surprise me a bit. This movie
has the heart & soul to be a favourite for a long time to come.I like the reality of the unfairness of the whole situation. There is
no glossing over the painful stuff. He was innocent but still jailed.
He did get raped. His chance DID get wiped out to have his story
confirmed. What a waste.I read some people calling this a 'feel-good' story. Perhaps in the
end, but other than the relief of freedom, there wasn't much to feel
good about. Talk about a hard-fought battle. And it isn't even over...
His life is better than it was, but still sucks considering everything
he lost, considering he can never go back, considering he is always a
fugitive...If you're feeling bummed out about your own life, this is a good movie
to watch to realize that things could always be worse.

******
24 December 2009
10
In these times, where an "Every man for himself" mentality prevails and
one's self worth is measured by possessions, this movie reminds us that
the escalating fear that we all have, as this country spirals out of
control, is best abated by having someone you can call a true friend.As time passes and, more of us see that this country is heading
inexorably toward social, political and economic disaster, this movie
will find an even larger audience of devotees. Perhaps, one day, we
will abandon our materialism and discover that true hope which we will
desperately need and, a major theme of this movie, lies in our
relationships with others. Until then, we will have the Shawshank
Redemption to remind us what real friendship looks like.

******
27 October 2009
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that will really never ever be
forgotten. Arguably the best movie of all time. A thundering
reassurance in the hope for a better tomorrow, this movie is truly an
epitome of hope and perseverance. Probably should be filed under the
category of movies you should watch anyhow before you die. True
masterpiece. There won't be another movie that can be quite anything
like this.This movie is so powerful that I can't even describe this in a few
words. This is the kind of movie that rekindles hopes in all of us. The
kind of movie that will always keep moving and impressing generations
to come. With a storyline that not only will blow you away, but also
strengthen your hopes and faith in the fact that "Hope is a good thing.
Maybe the best of things. And no good thing ever dies".

******
5 September 2009
10
I've read a lot of the comments here. I've never voted for this movie
once, but now I'm going to give it what it deserves. And I am going to
try to describe why a lot of Shawshank fans are voting this the best
movie ever.The reasons that this movie is great are: it has incredible acting,
incredible story-telling, incredible pace, incredible writing and
dialogue, incredible imagery, and an incredible twist and ending.The Godfather also has these qualities.But the reason Shawshank is better is because it literally is
potentially life-changing. People watch Shawshank and someone truly may
believe in HOPE. They may truly believe their lives will get better.
They may truly believe others' lives can be made better. Its message is
not only told, but it is FELT and oft times ABSORBED. For men, for
women, for old, for young, for everyone. It is a masterpiece. What
other movie affects people in this way? You don't get that with The
Godfather. GF is a great film, but you just come out of it saying,
"Wow, that was one of the best films I've ever seen." With Shawshank,
you say more than that. You feel more than that.You will never see another like it. And the mere perfection of this
movie, by a novice director, will frustrate experienced and future
directors forever.

******
7 July 2009
10
I'm a big fan of movies that have depth and tells a great story.
American movies doesn't always provide that.The Shawshank Redemption, however, is a prime example of what American
story telling can be. With a slight non-linear build up, strong and patient character
development, the movie drags you more and more into the despair of Andy
Dufresne, but always with a sense of hope.For me, there's no two ways about it. This is simply the best movie
ever made.10/10.

******
24 January 2003
10

This is the only movie I would give 10 out of 10 for. This movie has got
everything a movie needs: Great acting and great actors, an amazing
storyline, superb music, a perfect movie length and a fantastic ending.
This
movie deserves all the credit it gets. It is my favourite movie of all
time
and always will be. This movie has changed my life.

******
22 January 2003
10

What a complete masterpiece this film is, from the first line spoken to
the
zoom-out in the end.
The actors are all great, but Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins really do
outstanding performances. This is probably my all time favorite film and
to
anyone who hasn't seen it there's only one thing I can say: Please do! You
won't be disappointed. 

******
29 July 2002
10

This movie, is more than just a movie, this is about freedom and peace,
between each other, many people will learn something watching it, about
how
the mind could be free when your body is not...
That´s all I have to say about the greatest movie of all
times
thanks if you have read my comments
D@ve

******
20 January 2002
10

I do not know how many times I thought this film was finished and it was
not
- although it took a while to get into it the ending was so exceptional
I`ve
watched it time and time again. There were so many twists I was not
expecting - the author should be applauded

******
22 March 2001
10

This movie was excellence at it's best.  In my mind, it is great if you
can
watch a long movie and just not want it to end.  That's what this one did
to
me.  Besides the point that the acting was some of the best you'll see in
the 90's.  The story was golden.  If you haven't seen this, get it
now.

******
12 August 2000
10

What can i say?...The only film to make a grown man cry! No film comes
close
to this in any way or form,it draws you in from the start-keeps you there
and if your like me..turns you to tears at the very last scene!.Enjoy it
because no film will ever be made like this again.

******
25 January 1999
9

First time I saw "The Shawshank Redemption" was some two years after its
release. Second time was yesterday and like every great movie it got even
better this time. The movie is a beautiful story about hope that holds you
above the surface even when your life seems meaningless. Morgan Freeman and
Tim Robins are magnificent, and this film I can recommend to
anyone.

******
3 October 1998
10

This film ranks second among my all time favourites. The only reason it does
not hold that coveted first place spot is that I am obsessed with Monty
Python's "The Holy Grail". Shawshank is a beautifully crafted film, with one
of the best endings I have ever seen; even though in a way it is not
entirely unexpected. It is particularly enlivened by the presence of Morgan
Freeman, who should have won an Oscar for his voice-overs alone. In a word,
Exceptional.

******
26 October 2013
5
It is not uncommon to hire people to write reviews on social networks
that should appear to be by independent contributors. That's why i had
to laugh when i saw The Shawshank Redemption being the best rated movie
on IMDb. But since there would be little sense in making such an effort
to generate more than a million votes and almost three thousand reviews
for a movie made in 1994 i assume this is genuine.In any case, based on Stephen King's novella, The Shawshank Redemption
was an alright prison movie to watch. However, it displays what i see
as typical for King's work. When he's writing science fiction, fantasy
or horror it all sits well. But when he writes anything that should
mirror reality it simply feels fake in the same way as wearing a cotton
shirt and the one made of synthetics feels different. The events might
have been based on actual events, but i haven't been convinced.Obviously when you make any kind of list, there will always be a first
place. On IMDb it is currently being taken by The Shawshank Redemption.

******
21 July 2013
10
Watching this movie was a pleasure, the acting was outrageously good. A
film without special effects and action every 5 minutes, just men in
prison. All I can say is I would have loved this film to have been
longer.The acting from Morgan Freeman is second to none, he proves in this
film why he is regarded as one of the greatest actors to grace our
screens. Anyone who hasn't seen this film needs too watch it straight after
reading this review as it will change your opinion on a lot of other
films.

******
8 June 2013
10
one of the films that you must watch in lifetime. A film about
long-term imprisonment that takes its time to convey what the slow
crawl of a lifer's existence might feel like. Thoroughly gripping, and
pretty refreshing. Ten years ago The Shawshank Redemption was a low-key
prison film that didn't recoup its costs. Slowly it has become one of
the most popular movies of all time - and, for some, it has even been
life- changing. It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside
a prison, but "The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our
feelings because it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us
vicarious experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank"
slows down and looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to
include us in the story of men who have formed a community behind bars.
It is deeper than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on
friendship and hope.

******
28 April 2013
10
Where do I start? When I first heard of The Shawshank Redemption I
immediately wanted to watch it, mostly of its title, so as I always do
I looked it up on IMDb and looked at the rating. It was the highest
ranked movie on IMDb, and of course I would give it a go. The beginning
was very interesting, with Andy being convicted of double homicide and
seeing the lean-back of what happened. Him being found guilty, serving
two life sentences in the toughest prison in America, Shawshank. I
thought it would be another overrated boring movie like The Godfather,
but no, it caught my attention from the start and never lost it either.
The dramatic scenes, it gives you a glance of how it is in prison, the
emotional scenes. It is all a masterpiece, there is a reason to why it
is the best movie I have ever watched and probably will ever watch. The
amazing acting, plot and moderate length. The last scene, with "Red"
walking up the beach towards Andy and the credits slowly rolling in, it
makes you beg for it to never end. When it comes to movies I can
sometimes get a little emotional if its a good movie, which Shawshank
is. It definitely deserves the spot as #1, I cannot understand how it
didn't win an Oscar.I really recommend this movie to anyone who wants a good weekend, but
get a load of potato chips and soda, since you will finish it all up
very fast.

******
6 January 2013
10
you can't get more, from a motion picture Morgan Freeman undoubtedly is
a great actor and finding him as supporting actor in movies has been a
culture in the modern cinema.The movie have a great plot the director did a great job, concentration
on the story have a solid field and the scope to keep you sticking to
your chair the movie have such a dialogue delivery that you have to
pause if you even blink your eye.Shawshank Redemption as the title is tempting so is the movie the star
cast is great the performance can't get better, and criticizing the all
the rules and regulations of the society challenging the so many other
other things the movie becomes a legend to the todays actors enough war
movies enough jail breaks you have seen in movies but it's all
inspiring all contributing to the society and the diamond to the
industry and the milestone for the coming actors is this. Tim Robbins
performance is great as he lived the role and the eye stretcher movie
shawshank redemption.

******
21 December 2012
10
I cant believe that something so simply good exists. This is by far the
best thing i have ever watched on my TV. I loved every piece of it and
i'm gonna watch it once a year till my time on this world is over. I
can't describe the feeling and joy you will have after watching it,
because i can't find the right words to describe it. Watch it and you
will see what i mean. The first time is always the best. It's the time
when it will leave you speechless for a couple of seconds. And after
those seconds you will begin to understand that you just watched a
masterpiece. What i liked the most is the big time span in which the
movie plays. All those years in one place and the dependence for some
people after you leave it.

******
20 December 2012
10
When I watched Shawshank Redemption at first,I had been in the high
school and this film left a good impression with me, I say that I
learned how to follow your passions and hopes, how to struggle to be
free. And " don't never forget,hope is good something and good
somethings never die " this sentence which passes in the film, I always
believe it every part of mine. Because A person lives with his or her
hopes and passions so, If it is seized from people,that people lose
their aims in the life. And what the best properties of this film, It
shows that hopes and passions are indispensable for people...In
addition to my review about Shawshank Redemption, Whenever I watch this
film, I learn that it puts in new things my life. It is so important
for every watcher, Shawshank Redemption should be watched and I advise
it to you :)

******
10 December 2012
9
First of all you need to be prepared for this 3 hour long movie(though
the movie worths it).Morgan freeman's background voice will keep you
with the story.Dialogues were well executed.The strongest part was it's
narration which makes it the best.I wouldn't have watched this if it
wasn't on the top of IMDb list.At some point of time i felt the movie
is just dragging on the story.Still at the end you won't mind it. The movie also carries the message of friendship,hope,will and
brilliance of our protagonist.Sometimes i felt pity on him and
sometimes i couldn't stop myself praising his brilliance.I think this movie will keep impressing generations ahead,no matter how
much advance human becomes.

******
30 October 2012
10
I had heard a lot about this movie being a 'classic' and a 'must-see'
and normally that negatively impacts my view of a movie because
unrealistic expectation often ruins the true quality of a movie. This
movie, however, managed to surpass all my expectations.I didn't know much concerning the story, except that it was a movie set
in a prison but it's so much more than that. The major theme that
became apparent to me throughout this movie was how we regard as good
and evil is largely dependent on the storyteller and how he chooses to
paint the heroes/villains. Convicted felons are not usually considered
'heroes' or people that you root for and want to succeed but the story
is about so much more than that. The Shawshank Redemption is about hope
and more importantly the struggle to maintain it, when the world is
doing its best to crush it.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman's on-screen chemistry is amazing. There
are no weak scenes, no wasted dialogue. They are the best things about
the movie, they make you believe, they make you hope.

******
13 August 2012
10
Yes, Stephen King writes drama. He also wrote Stand By Me, The Green
Mile, and Dolores Claiborne. He has definitely been typed as a horror
writer, when he is an amazing tearjerker. This film is amazing. Words
cannot describe just how amazing this film truly is. I thought that I
would not like this film, as it looked like "a bad sports movie". But,
when my science teacher told me I should see it, "because it's a movie
where you just go, 'wow'". I did and I was literally in tears by the
end. Not in tears of sadness, but tears of joy. Because the film was
simply so beautiful. Not very many films have made me cry. Of course, I
cried at the endings of Marley and Me, and Toy Story 3. But there are
only 3 films I've ever cried at. Some people say Citizen Kane or The
Godfather are the best movies ever. FALSE. They are overrated. This
film is a diamond in the rough. Most people are stubborn and won't even
take this gem into consideration. It truly is the best movie ever. The
music, the direction, the cast. I won't give anything away, you need to
see the film to appreciate its true beauty, but I will say that the
music in this film puts John Williams to shame, and the movie reminds
us that even in the most bleak of situations, life can still be great.
It is a great movie because it reminds us that hope is something that
nothing can quench.

******
12 August 2012
10
I do not even feel as though I need to go into a great amount of detail
to explain just how amazing this film is.You've probably seen the movie sitting on the top spot of 'IMDB's top
250', or maybe you've heard a friend babble on about how great the
movie is and know it must be half-decent. I can assure you this will
live up to your expectations. The acting, the plot, the setting, the
cast, the directing, the messages and symbols, the acting again
(deserves another mention) is just about as perfect as a movie can be
in this setting. Please don't waste your time pondering over whether or
not to see this movie or whether or not you should believe the hype
because, I can assure you, you can. Go buy this from your local movie
store or buy it online - I really don't care - just make sure you watch
this film before anything else. As an 18-year-old guy, I can say with
confidence this is the best movie I have ever seen - or ever will see.
Go watch it! Now!

******
29 July 2012
10
Personally I was, and I am ashamed to say this, quite late to join the
huge number of film fans that would hold The Shawshank Redemption
within their Top 5 films of all time - if not number 1. If you're
wondering mine is "The Princess Bride", childhood favourite but that's
beside the point.I think the first time I watched it was in 2006 and I instantly fell in
love with it. I now watch the film at least 5/6 times a year without
fail and I am hardly ever far from tears of joy by the end.If you use the old analogy of "If an alien came to earth show them
how..." to make a film, you would show them this as the blueprint.Just brilliant.

******
20 July 2012
10
I'd heard about this film a few years ago and I'd heard it was good. I
was lied to. This film wasn't good, It was outstanding! I can't believe
I never watched this sooner! From the opening scenes where the
mysterious Andy Dufresne is being dragged into hell to the credits as
Red runs across the beach to him, this film was, in a word, Perfect! No
holes to spot, almost everything was completely accurate, Probably some
of the best script I've ever heard and a brilliant story. Normally, If
a film goes over two hours, I start to get a little bored and I end up
wanting the film to end but this was completely the opposite! I never
wanted this to end and the hefty 140 minutes get you wanting more and
the story drew me in so much, I felt as if I was there. Normally with
films adapted from Stephen King books, they don't do so well on the big
screen but this has proved that wrong! Overall, I like this film
because it's realistic, it goes into great depth and the story is so
gripping, you can't take your eyes off the screen and this film will
always be there at the top as one of my favourite films ever!

******
18 July 2012
10
The Shawshank Redemption is currently number one on the IMDb Top 250
list. I don't particularly agree with that, but it is a truly great
movie nonetheless. It is moving and compelling, and it touches the
heart and soul.The story is set in the 1940s, and it involves Andy Dufrense (Tim
Robbins), a young man who is convicted of murdering his wife and her
lover and is sentenced to life in the Shawshank Prison. As one would
expect, he is very unhappy at first, but then he leans that there's
something deeper that nobody can take away from you: hope. As the story
unfolds, over the years, Andy eventually becomes very influential
within the prison and gains the respect of other inmates, especially
"Red" (Morgan Freeman), with whom he develops a special friendship.The story isn't original or creative, and it's relatively simple, and a
bit predictable, but it's compelling, moving, and memorable, and
there's a bit more to it which I won't go into. The movie puts the
viewer right into the footsteps, experiences, and emotions of the
characters. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman put on great performances.
They really bring out their characters and offer true depth and
emotion. One of the major moral messages of the movie is that a person
may be imprisoned, even for life, but the spirit can never truly be
imprisoned. The movie conveys this moral message very strongly, and it
truly touches the heart and soul.I am very glad I watched this movie. It is a truly emotional
experience.

******
23 June 2012
10
The best movie ever made, period. I won't go on a very long and
detailed review on the story(which is magnificent and perfect)I just
want to say that this movie is a pure piece of art. The acting was
perfect! I'm really disappointed that the actors didn't have enough
recognition for their performances! Actually, the overall movie was
underestimate, by the Oscars especially.This movie shows why cinema is
an art, powerful and heart full art. See this movie, you'll now what
I'm talking about. I really tried to notice some gripes or problems
but, I can't. This movie is touching, sad, beautiful, powerful and
perfect. By the way, f**k the Academy Awards for dumping this movie and
do for Forrest Gump for the trophies,but it's just trophies... Still a
shame that they decided that.11 out of ten, totally deserves it.

******
9 May 2012
10
This film is about hope, friendship and redemption. It has solid
performances from Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins and Bob Gunton (the
warden). Freeman masterfully narrates and he is the life blood of this
film. You experience everything through him; friendship, despair, hope,
redemption and happiness. The musical score is nothing short of
fantastic and really elevates some of the more moving scenes in the
film.Firstly, this film is about hope. Andy is wrongly accused of murder and
is sent to Shawshank prison. He has no friends and is quickly picked on
at arrival because of his quiet, unassuming nature. But as time passes,
the other inmates begin to respect Andy because he doesn't allow prison
to break him. Andy perseverance is so strong that it begins to rub off
on the others. I think to really get this film, you need to step away
from the context of it just being a prison movie. You could say the
prison is life. The warden and the guards are problems, trials and
troubles in life that can test and possible break you.No matter how bad
things yet, no matter what brutal things you have to endure, you've
gotta hold out hope, you gotta hang on, you have to believe you're
gonna get through it. This is about the very nature of the human
spirit, told in a very simple, straight forward way.This film is also about the power of friendship. I think Hollywood
seems to have a hard time portraying a meaningful, male friendship and
just resorts to endless buddy and stoner movies. Shawshank does a great
job of this. I felt this aspect of the film was told in 2 parallel
stories. The first was the old librarian, Brooks. When he was released,
he struggled to adapt to the new world. As Red says, he had become
institutionalized so much so that without Shawshank he felt alone,
afraid and had no purpose. In the end, it was just too much for him to
bear. Easily one of the more heartbreaking scenes in the film, gets me
every time. When Red is released, he faces the exact same challenges
that Brooks did. And he too struggled and almost lost hope. The only
thing that kept him him going, was his friendship with Andy. As Freeman
narrates:"There's a harsh truth to face. No way I'm gonna make it on the
outside. All I do anymore is think of ways to break my parole, so maybe
they'd send me back. Terrible thing, to live in fear. Brooks Hatlen
knew it. Knew it all too well. All I want is to be back where things
make sense. Where I won't have to be afraid all the time. Only one
thing stops me. A promise I made to Andy."It was literally the only thing he felt worth living for and a key part
of the film I think people forget. And before Andy left prison, you
could see how it deeply affected Red. He had lost his friend and the
heartbreak of it was written all over Freeman's face, fantastic acting
if you ask me; it was subtle, quiet suffering.And finally the film is about Redemption. Some people feel the
redemption is Andy's. But I believe that Andy was just the agent of
Red's redemption. At the start of the film Red was pretty much
redesigned to life in prison. He had accepted that these were just the
cards he was dealt and there was no real reason to feel otherwise; he
had given up hope. The first few times he went for his parole hearing,
Red was just going through the motions, he was just saying what he
thought he had to get to be let out. It was completely insincere.You can see an the film progresses Andy changing Red. There's a great
scene where Red mentions that he used to play the harmonica. Andy gets
him one as a present and later, in a small but important scene, Red
picks up the Harmonica and he quietly plays a note. For me this is
where Red begins to believe again. But the key scene for me is the last
parole hearing. Red has been so affected by Andy, that for the first
time he has a genuine moment of repentance, where he honestly admits to
his crime:"There's not a day goes by I don't feel regret. Not because I'm in
here, or because you think I should. I look back on the way I was then:
a young, stupid kid who committed that terrible crime. I want to talk
to him. I want to try and talk some sense to him, tell him the way
things are. But I can't. That kid's long gone and this old man is all
that's left. I got to live with that. Rehabilitated? It's just a
bullshit word. So you go on and stamp your form, sonny, and stop
wasting my time. Because to tell you the truth, I don't give a bleep."It really is just an incredible, moving scene, one of my all time
favorites. Red is completely broken and regretful, it's nothing short
of movie magic. And the ending? Well, let's just say it leaves me with
a smile on my face. In my opinion this is the greatest film ever made.
An incredibly powerful, uplifting story. If you haven't seen this, you
need to.http://andretms.blogspot.ca/

******
25 March 2012
10
To be brief, as a man who has watched thousands of movies in my life,
Shawshank redemption is the best movie I have ever seen. The plot, the
way it develops, the acting, the portrayal of every human emotion, and
the ending makes 99% of movies seem like just a waste of time. I didn't
see it until a few years after it came out. My sister said it was a
great movie. It was on HBO, so I watched it. I was speechless. I have
always found it strange that it was from a Steven King novel. I've read
a few (not that one) and what comes through in the movie doesn't seem
like anything that would be in a Steven King novel. A better movie may
come along but it may be a while.

******
2 March 2012
10
This review contains spoilers so better see the film and then read my
review.Sometimes it makes me wonder why this film didn't go well in the box
office. Shawshank redemption is not just about a story where a man
escapes from a jail. It captures the life of people who spend their
life in jail. I believe that jail life and free life are almost
similar. Sometimes we enjoy and sometimes we feel sad whether you live
in jail or not. Sometimes life doesn't make any sense at all. Some
people succeed in their lives with ease and some people faces a great
deal of hardship and still won't succeed in their life. These people
are forced to the point of desperation. What they should know is that
all of us have a destiny to reach and the main thing which matters the
most is "hope" which you should need until the moment you die. If you
believe in yourself and have hope then one day you will reach your
destiny in this life or in your after life.This film has really changed
my way of looking the life.

******
1 March 2012
10
Well as the other more than 2000 review say it, in my opinion this is
the best movie created so far. It basically just how life is: you get
punched in a face time to time, but you have to stand up, keep your
hope and give value to your fellows, because in return life takes care
about your reward. Oh yes, and if you face any evil that you can stop,
do it. This is the message of the film, if we follow it, life may be as
rewarding ultimately for us as for the hero. Other films that moved me
like this: Forrest Gump, The curious case of Benjamin Button. IMDb says
I have to write another line in order for them to post my review so
here it is xD

******
5 February 2012
10
If you have not seen this film yet, you are really missing something in
your life. It is almost like never tasting Coca Cola.This film is that good. The great Morgan Freeman not only puts in the
greatest acting performance of his life, but quite possibly the
greatest performance of all time.The script is so excellent that every word spoken sticks in your mind
and later on in the movie you remember every word before it is
recollected.This film makes you angry, upset, romantic, sick and elated. It touches
all of the senses and you cannot take your eyes off the screen for one
minute.The cinematography is excellent and so is the research and hard work
that has gone into ensuring that all of the costumes and props are of
the era.

******
10 July 2011
10
One of the best movies that i have ever seen.It truly transcends time
and is an epic in all proportions.People just don't make movies like
this anymore and this is one of my favorite movies of all time. The
movie is About Andy Dufrane,a banker who has been wrongfully acquitted
of killing his wife in cold blood and send to shaw shank prison.the
movie shows the various hardships faced by Andy and how he does not
give up hope and carries on with patience and finally becomes free. the
climax is absolutely spellbinding and will leave you aghast.it is a
truly great movie and i was aghast at finding out that this movie was a
failure in the box office.BUT NOW ALMOST EVERYONE RECOGNIZES THIS MOVIE
FOR WHAT IT TRULY IS - A MASTERPIECE OF STORYTELLING.

******
4 August 2010
10
I was reluctant to see this movie - thought it was just another prison
movie - and I was certainly tired of mindless violence. I was channel
surfing one evening - and stumbled across this movie. I watched a few
minutes, thinking I would change channels at the first commercial.
Almost 2 hours later - after seeing the end - I sat there...saying
"Wow". That was a great movie. I have since recommended it to friends
and family...it has grown in popularity due to word of mouth - and
certainly deserves its spot at the top. Morgan Freeman put on a
masterful performance, as did Tim Robbins. The way their friendship
develops and the interplay with the other inmates - a wonderful story.If you have not watched this movie yet - put preconceived notions
aside, sit down, and enjoy the journey!

******
18 July 2010
10
There have been many cases in film history when a film is terrific do
to the actors. Then there are some films are great because of what was
written. With The Shawshank redemption, IMDb's favorite film, in works
in both cases. The acting is superb, and the film is incredibly well
written and very justified.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrense, a banker who has been accused of
murdering his wife and her lover. So he is sent to Shawshank prison,
where he experience's lots of things. He forms a bond with Red(played
terrificly by Morgan Freeman). The warden(played by Bob Gunton) hates
him. He is raped. And all of this is leading to his escape after being
in there for over twenty years.The Shawshank redemption, which is based on a shot story by Stephen
King, is one of the most interesting films ever made. It'a also one of
the best films ever made too. What is one way to tell: When you hear
Morgan Freeman's narration, you know you're in good hands.The acting is explosive. Everyone does such a good job. The Shawshank
redemption is a little long, but the length is tolerable. Mainly
because from the opening scene the film has you hooked. Morgan Freeman
gives the better performance of the two, but the duo of Robbins and
Freeman is once in a lifetime.The Shawshank redemption was an Oscar upset. It was nominated for
seven, including Best picture, Best actor(Morgan Freeman) and best
writing. And it lost best picture to Forrest Gump, which is also a
great movie. 94 was the year of Pulp fiction also. Another Oscar upset.
I prefer Pulp fiction, but The Shawshank redemption is still one of the
best films ever made.The Shawshank redemption:A+

******
4 July 2010
10
This is a very, very, very, great film. It's my all time favorite.
First of all the acting is f**king great. My favorite actor in the
entire film is easily Morgan Freeman. He should have won that Oscar!
The fact that he didn't is a f**king disgrace. Now the music to this
movie is not to memorable but is still great and sets the mood for the
film. Now the story line is brilliant. Andy Dufresne is accused of the
murder of the wife and her secret lover, so he is sentenced to
Shawshank State Prison. There he develops a friendship with a prisoner
named Red. The sets in this movie are great. As expected. So in the end
this is a great movie and you should really check it out.

******
14 June 2010
10
Stephen King's novella is a damn good yarn. The narrative is always
engrossing, the source elements of Andy's secret are carefully placed
without exciting attention, and you are delighted when events pan out
as they do.Then Darabont adapts it, and a damn good yarn becomes something
special. Part of this is the adaptation - a sensitive simplification,
part of it is the casting, which is pitch perfect (Morgan Freeman's Red
was always an Irish redhead when I read the story - now I can't read it
without seeing Morgan Freeman). And most of it, I think, is the
direction.The story unfolds in unhurried fashion, with us being unsure of Andy's
guilt for much of the movie, but with a gradually building sense of
injustice at the way those in power in the system can treat him (and
others) unfairly. The secret doesn't come at the end, but at about the
three quarters mark, and brings with it a huge emotional kick. And then
the story is allowed to make its own way into a gentle and perfect end.This is, without any doubt, one of the most spiritually uplifting films
I have ever seen.

******
16 November 2009
10
Hi, I heard details about this movie first time two years ago from a
friend. Before that in some movie channels I used to see the title been
shown but never saw it. A jail movie....slow..not for me.I was in
college those days in the nineties. In 2007 when my friend told me that whenever he feel sad or down he
thinks of this movie and moves on. I replied back 'for me its rocky',
he asked if I have seen it and when I told him that I did not, the only
answer he had was it..watch it and then compare it. Now in 2009 with the recession going on, lots of trouble in work and
tensions of home and personal life for me. While changing channels, I
chanced upon this movie which had started and I had lost some ten
minutes. I did not change the channels later and saw it in complete. The only
reaction was tears in my eyes in the end and called my family and close
friends. It was a shaking experience, and I got my answer....I needed to get out
of my jail. I sent mails to my friends about the movie and review, few had seen it
already and many did not. Result, more people watched it...and guess
what I for the first time rated in this website for the movie. ..AND i expect some of my friends also did it. This is the reason why after 15 years this movie is still alive because
of its human spirit story....with more followers than fans. I hope that answers some of your doubts...... This movie is for those who are busy dying......and now know its
important to get busy living.

******
19 October 2009
10
I am so happy to see this film top 1 in IMDb. It deserves to be there.
"The Shawshank Redempion" appears in 1994, I think this year was full
of amazing pictures. It lost Oscars but gained recognition. This is a
great story about friendship and redemption. Frank Darabont's best
movie for sure. Andy Dufresne is one of the greatest characters ever
made in the cinema art. A guy who is innocent and get punished. This
film shows us that even our intention is a crime in a law world. No one
is perfect, and no one can predict anything. We live by a scheme and
trying to be fair. People will always make mistakes and the greatest
thing is to learn from them. I am waiting for movies which can touch me
like this one but after year 2000 nothing close to that appears. There
were great films about life and stuff but still it's a modification, a
copy thereof what was before. I think until year 2000 most of valuable
things in film art was told. It's a little sad but this kind of art
will always be deep in my heart as a lesson and beauty how fantastic
picture man create. I hope there will be at least couple movies in my
short life that leave so many emotions like "The Shawshank Redemption".
In XXI century it is a very hard thing to do. I am patient and have
positive thinking that cinema didn't say the last words.

******
4 October 2009
10
It is year 2009 and yet this movie is still the best movie I have ever
seen. It truly and rightfully deserves to be the best movie of all
times. Story telling, acting, directing, anything that you can imagine
about a movie is so perfectly done. I believe everyone will have his
own message from the movie but if you want to see a movie that tells
how important the role of hope in our life is, you are at the correct
address. The atmosphere in the prison, the way people feel and the way
all these things were put together in a two hours movie; there is
nothing to say. It is just exceptionally plain good. A must to see
movie for everyone that carries a heart.

******
6 August 2009
10
I was literally HOOKED. No wonder this film is rated amongst the best
ever. This is definitely one of the best movies you will see your
entire life. Morgan Freeman's narration was awesome. Tim Robbins
powerfully illustrates the importance of HOPE. All the characters did a
superb job. This is surely one of my all time favourite movies. Its a
classic & a true masterpiece of cinema... Don't think! Just watch &
savour it.I saw the following comment by someone and thought of adding it to
mine, I agree 100% to everything of the following: "Many people in this
world are unhappy. Most people in this world don't want to be unhappy.
Lots of people wish, pray and above all hope for that magic wand to
wave and wash them of their fears, losses, angers and pains once and
for all. They see lots of other people seemingly in this magical state,
while they suffer. To borrow the words of another film, they're
watching the bluebirds flying over the rainbow. Many unhappy people
have learned that the magic wand doesn't exist. They're not destined to
join the bluebirds and fairy tales don't come true. It's not that no
one lives happily ever after, it's just that they're not going to.
They're busy dying.In this film, or as some people have quite correctly said, this
fairytale, magic wands exist. And that magic wand is Andy Dufrense
imitating Houdini. However this film is not about him. Neither is it
about the prison, the governor, the guard, the plot, the acting, the
cinematography, the script, the direction or the score. It's about Red.
He is the one who has become institutionally unhappy, he's not only
trapped in a prison, not only has he given up on the idea of ever
leaving, not only does he have no hope, he knows that if the miracle
would ever happen to him, he couldn't cope. He's safe in his
unhappiness and that security is what keeps him going. Hope is, as Red
say, dangerous. The metaphor for a certain illness here is very clear
to me and I know that a rather large number of people suffer from it. A
large proportion of those don't understand what's wrong, but they
certainly can recognise a fellow sufferer. Those who are mercifully
untouched by this illness definitely don't understand what's going on
in those who do. They're too busy living."Just a little piece of advice to everyone who hated/disliked this film;
Believe me this film is made for multiple viewings...Don't hate this
after viewing it once or twice, give it at least more than 2 viewings
before you make up your mind. I'm POSITIVE it will become more and more
better after each viewing and probably you will end up loving it. If
not, maybe it was just not your Cup Of Tea. I hope this film satisfies
everyone and I really don't care if its No.1 on the IMDb or outside
Top250. Its not fair to hate a film because your favourite is not above
it in the rankings!Its a deeply satisfying movie that makes you understand the importance
of HOPE.9.8/10P.S. Technically{all round film-making} it may not be the greatest
movie of all-time{that honor can go to Godfather/LOTR:ROTK/Star Wars
4,etc.} BUT it certainly goes down in my book as one of the finest and
a movie to savour for ages.

******
22 June 2009
9
The Shawshank Redemption is an excellent film from director Frank
Darabont whose admirable in making this story based on a book by
Stephen King. Tim Robbins gives a great performance as Andy Dufresne
and Morgan Freeman is equally impressive as Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding
two imprisoned men looking for redemption who bond after many years
while dealing with not only the abusive corrupt prison guards but the
violent fellow prisoners amongst them as well. Robbins and Freeman had
good chemistry together which made their growing friendship that much
more believable on the screen. The rest of the cast including Bob
Gunton, Clancy Brown, William Sadler, Gil Bellows, and James Whitmore
are effective as the supporting characters in their limited screen
time. The pacing was a little slow at times and the running time of 142
minutes made the film feel a bit long but the rest made up for it's few
flaws. Overall despite it's flaws The Shawshank Redemption is
definitely a must see a movie that can't be missed. It has a compelling
story, character development, drama, some humor, and exceptional
performances by the cast (especially Robbins and Freeman) who make this
one of the best books by Stephen King that was made into a movie. Well
done. Much better than expected.

******
13 June 2009
10
Seriously, if ever there's a film that people should be forced to
watch, it's this. The acting in it is truly perfect, the storyline in
very, very well written and the ending is one of the cleverest (and
most misleading) endings I have ever witnessed. This film can (and
will) be enjoyed by people of all ages (relatively - check parents
guide for suitability), and will keep you in suspense for the full
duration. Unlike in most other Hollywood films, the twists in the
storyline are very well executed and it is in no ways cheesy or cheap.
Morgan Freeman gives the performance of his life without making his
fellow actors over-act. The Shawshank Redemption blows every other
prison dramas out of the water. See it at all costs.

******
16 May 2009
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the most touching and greatest
movies I have ever seen. The movie is based on the novella Rita
Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption by Stephen King. Unlike most of
his novels King didn't write a horror story but instead a inspiring
tale of hope in unlikely places. Overseeing the transition from book to
big screen is Frank Darabont who in his director debut scores a home
run with this movie.Not only does the plot pull you in but the actors do as well. Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman do a fantastic job as the 2 central
characters and as friends. Bob Gunton is great in the part of the
villain as the evil warden. The directing, cast, and plot all combine
to make the movie awesome.The plot of the movie revolves around Andy Dufresne a man who is
imprisoned for life for a crime he did not commit. Over time Andy
becomes friends with Red an inmate who runs the business of smuggling
in things into the prison. The story then follows the 2 and how they
handle prison life.Years go by but Andy continues to speak of hope. Ultimately Andy will
commit unbelievable acts in a touching story that is truly
inspirational. The message the story delivers is to never give up
hoping. The climax of the movie is fantastic and the ending is one of
the greatest in film history.Overall the Shawshank Redemption remains one of the greatest films of
all time.

******
16 May 2009
10
This movie is poetry. For those of you who've ever felt the way poetry
rolls off of the tongue, you'll understand what I mean when I say this.The first thing that makes this movie great is Morgan Freeman's ability
to narrate the way he does. His soft, yet ruff voice provides the
audience with the belief that this man has endured many years of
hardships and has gained wisdom and experience through trial and error.
He is a natural story teller, so his ability as a narrator is natural
and smooth; not forced, like so many other actors.Tim Robbins displays his acting ability beautifully and captures the
audience with an intense amount of emotion, which seems to resonate in
his eyes. The genius and wisdom of the character he portrays is a
fascinating thing to watch unfold, as the story lays itself out, like a
poster of Rita Hayworth.To say that this movie gives the audience hope would be unfair because
this movie makes the audience want to live, love, experience life for
all of its pleasures and its faults. It makes one appreciate the simple
things and slow down a bit, to admire that which we pass a hundred
times a day, but never truly see.To describe this movie as "great" would be an understatement because it
is so much more than that. While it is brutal and realistic, it
portrays humanity at our best and our worst, providing the audience
with a mirror in which to reflect what lies within. By the time the
credits roll, we're left speechless...and at the same time, wanting to
share this masterpiece with those we love and cherish.Everyone should see this movie at least once in a lifetime to make us
appreciate everything we have. Who would have thought someone could
capture humanity this way? I guess a picture really is worth a thousand
words......

******
29 April 2009
10
This is beyond doubt my favourite movie of all-time. I am a Morgan
Freeman fan and apart from Driving Miss Daisy, i have loved all his
movies that i have seen. The Shawshank Redemption stands above all. I
think it is a great movie with a sad overall story but a happy and just
ending. The only other prison movie i like as much is the classic Clint
Eastwood movie Escape from Alcatraz. The Shawshank Redemption has long
been my favourite movie and even though i have the DVD, i still watch
when it is on TV. 15 years since its release and i still haven't seen
anything i like more. I would recommend this movie to everyone and if
you haven't seen it yet, you must be living in a cave or something. If
you are in a cave, get out and go see this fantastic movie. 10/10

******
29 April 2009
10
When Shawshank begins, for about the first two minutes it seems nothing
more than a made-for-TV movie. However, as the story progresses you
find out how amazing it really is. Yet how can a film that contains
rape, beatings and suicide make you feel so good at the end? Frank
Darabont manages to do this so well. The Green Mile gives you a warm
feeling at the ending, but not like this does. I just love the way it
follows the subplot of Brooks right up until he kills himself. How
touching that was to see an old man, let out of prison but without
routine. He belonged in prison, not in the outside world.You forget at times that you are watching a movie. It sucks you in and
moves you. If you haven't seen Shawshank you have missed out on one of
the finest movies ever made. But don't worry - you're not beyond
redemption! Watch it!

******
30 March 2009
10
This movie is one that gives to wit the most part of being happy in
this life. It is true that you might not be lucky enough in life but
even in the midst of crap, even when all your life has crumbled over
your face, hope is still your last hope.One night he caught his wife cheating and was thrown in jail for a
murder that he had not committed and after all that he got raped! What
would you have done had you been in his shoes? keep on hoping? Well,
Andy not only had hope, he gave hope to his fellow prisoners. The
brilliant Morgan Freeman gives the cherry on the top in this movie and
if he weren't in this movie, the movie would have lacked something for
sure.There are scenes and lines that you will never forget in this movie and
I have commented on hundreds of movies but very few I gave the full 10
out of 10 and this movie is one of those few.

******
22 March 2009
10
This movie has many stories to tell. Every scene has its own story. I
like the way Morgan freeman narrates in the movie which makes it all
the more interesting. The scene where Andy gets beer for his coworkers.
Also when he plays the two Italian singers on prison radio. Brooks last
few days.And how Red comes to terms with his freedom. I recently
watched it for the first time and can't believe how i could miss this
for so long. I Also cant believe Morgan never won Oscar for this. I
cant think of any better performance than this.Truly deserves the
number one spot. Since last week i have watched it 3 times and plan to
watch it again. Thank you Frank Darabont for giving us hope.

******
18 March 2009
10
I'll admit, I'd held off on seeing the Shawshank Redemption. I remained
a little apprehensive; was this film as great as the masses of IMDb and
particularly world wide were saying? From the moment I began watching
this film to the very end, I was kept completely in awe at how
beautiful and amazing this film is.The Shawshank Redemption is a film set in a US Prison, following the
story of Andy Dufrense who was sent to Shawshank for a crime in which
he did not forget. Here, he meets Ellis "Red" Redding (played by Morgan
Freeman) an aged convict who, unlike the majority of the populace,
accepts that he is a guilty man. The two develop a friendship over the
lasting years, which evolves into what could be akin to brotherhood.The message of hope in this film is as inspirational as it is an
interesting concept. Despite being convicted, Andy undertakes a quest
to become a free man once more, even if it means breaking the laws and,
as shown later in the film, breaking out of ShawshankThe acting in this film is simply outstanding. Morgan Freeman,
providing both a character and the narration of said character,
portrays his character in such a convincing way that one can't help but
feel moved by his dialogue. Bob Gunton, who plays Warden Norton (an
immensely corrupt individual), passes himself off in such a brilliant
performance that I couldn't help but feel pure anger for the Warden
throughout the movie.But perhaps what makes this movie so beautiful is the underlying
messages. Despite being incarcerated for life without parole, Andy
maintains hope, despite what the others say when he freely speaks of
it. The evolving friendship of Red and himself delivers the message
that not all criminals are rabid beasts, and that friendship can
outlast the grim depression of a prison. Though I am by no means proud
to admit it, I felt myself become watery-eyed several times throughout
the film, particularly the letter sent by Brooks before he commits
suicide, climaxing in a tragic, heart-breaking scene.Wherever you are in the world, you must see this movie. It will most
certainly change your life. It did mine.

******
17 March 2009
10
This movie proves its worth of having top spot on IMDb list.It is not
only entertaining but also with a lesson never loose hope as it is the
best thing a man can have.Great acting displayed by lead actors
specially Morgan freeman.Truly a moving movie with great
moral&climax.Dialouges of this film are well written. You will miss
something if HAVE not watch it. Highly recommendable for those who have
give up their hope in life. they will find how hope will get best of
them.I will say that viewers have truly voted for this film without
under influence of big & popular name as it usually happens.Like
godfather.Godfather is nice film but not nice enough to give points
above 9 to it.

******
13 March 2009
9
The story of this film takes place over a twenty-year period between
1947 and 1967. Andy Dufresne, a young banker from Portland, Maine, is
wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover, and sentenced to
life imprisonment. ("Shawshank" is the name of the prison where he
serves his sentence). The prison is a brutal place, and Andy is
frequently beaten and sexually assaulted by a gang of homosexual
inmates called "The Sisters". Two things, however, help him to survive.
One is his friendship with another convict, Red, who has a reputation
for being able to acquire almost any item and, for a price, to smuggle
it into the prison. The other is his financial expertise, which he puts
to good use, becoming a tax and financial adviser to the prison guards
and even the Warden himself. As a reward for these services, Andy is
given a privileged job in the prison library and protection from
molestation. To avenge their attacks on Andy, the leader of the
"Sisters" is so badly beaten by the guards that he is crippled for
life; Andy is not molested again.The Warden devises a scheme under which inmates are put to work on
local construction projects. The purpose of this is ostensibly to
prepare them for life after they are released, but in reality he is
exploiting their free labour for his own personal profit, and using
Andy's financial skills to launder the proceeds. This arrangement seems
to work to Andy's advantage, because of the extra privileges he is
granted, but things change when a new young prisoner named Tommy
Williams is sent to Shawshank. Tommy has evidence that could secure
Andy's release; a former cellmate in another prison has confessed to
him that he committed the murders for which Andy was convicted. Tommy
confides this secret to the Warden who, fearing that his illegal
schemes will be revealed should Andy ever be released, arranges to have
Tommy murdered by a corrupt guard.There is a long history of American prison films, including the likes
of "I am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang", "Cool Hand Luke", "Brubaker"
and the more recent "The Last Castle". (Frank Darabont was later to
direct another prison film, "The Green Mile", based, like "The
Shawshank Redemption" on a Stephen King story). Most of these were made
with a liberal social agenda in mind, aiming to expose the harsh prison
conditions and thereby inspire their reform. "The Shawshank Redemption"
falls, to some extent, within this tradition; it is made from a
basically liberal viewpoint and vividly depicts the brutality of prison
life, although the fact that it is a period piece, set several decades
in the past, might suggest that social issues were not the filmmakers'
sole concern. Perhaps more important are the analysis of the nature of
freedom and of the relationship between Andy and Red.The word "prison", from the French "pris" ("taken"), merely indicates a
place where captives are held, and the authorities, especially in
America, prefer to describe many prisons by some more positive term
such as "penitentiary" or "reformatory" which implies their purpose of
rehabilitating criminals. Shawshank, a prison where the Warden and
guards are at least as crooked as the inmates, has precisely the
opposite effect. Andy goes in innocent of any crime and comes out
guilty of being an accessory to corruption and fraud. Yet, despite his
involvement in the Warden's dishonesty, Andy retains a certain
integrity; he refuses to give up hope and refuses to allow himself to
be beaten by the system. Although he is in prison he has found a sort
of freedom. A key moment comes when he defies the guards to play a
Mozart aria over the prison loudspeakers for all the inmates to hear- a
reminder of spiritual values even in the harshest of environments.Red faces a different problem. He fears that he has become so
institutionalised that he will be unable to survive freedom, as
happened to another long-term prisoner who committed suicide shortly
after his release. In prison, his role as the "fixer" who can obtain
anything, be it a packet of cigarettes, a rock hammer or a poster of
Rita Hayworth, makes him the king of the inmates. (These latter two
items will play an important role in the plot). On the outside he will
be just another ex-con trying to make ends meet in a dead-end job.
Paradoxically, he is more free in jail than he will be on the outside.
I won't give away the ending, but it involves Andy repaying Red's
previous kindnesses by showing him how he can be free in all senses of
the word.The film was not a great box office success when first released but has
since acquired a status as one of the classics of the modern American
cinema; it has now supplanted "The Godfather" as number one on IMDb's
Top 250 list. The film would perhaps not be number one on my personal
list, but it is a fine one and would certainly be in my top 250,
perhaps the top 100. Its two stars, Tim Robbins as Andy and Morgan
Freeman as Red, are both excellent. Its initial lack of success may
have had something to do with its rather clumsy title. "Shawshank" is
not a word that will mean anything to the average person (according to
one story Darabont was once asked how his "rickshaw" film was going)
and "redemption", except in technical legal contexts, normally has a
religious connotation. This is not an explicitly religious film;
indeed, in its portrayal of Warden Norton as a sanctimonious,
Bible-bashing hypocrite, it can be seen as critical of religion.
Nevertheless, the word "redemption" is perhaps appropriate in this
context, after undergoing the hell of Shawshank Andy and Red manage to
find a sort of secular redemption. It may be this message of hope that
accounts for the film's continuing popularity. 9/10

******
2 March 2009
10
This is without a doubt one of the finest films of the last 20 years. I
think that if it had been released with more fanfare and didn't have
such great competition that year, it might have won for Best Picture.
This film has such a powerful presence that it has a life of it's own
apart from the cast, score, cinematography, etc., all of which are
deservedly great. This is one of those movies that you can switch to
when you are channel surfing, and stop and watch the rest of it, no
matter what part of the movie you are at. Perhaps The Godfather and
Jaws are a couple of others that do that for me, and it never gets old,
no matter how many times you watch it. One thing that disappoints me
regarding this film is what has happened to the director, Frank
Darabont. Unfortunately, he has never come close to achieving the
greatness of Shawshank with his subsequent films. I thought The Green
Mile was good, but it didn't hold a candle to Shawshank. I was also
very disappointed in The Mist. I sincerely hope that he is able to
recapture some of the magic of Shawshank Redemption in a future film,
because he definitely does have the proved ability to do so.

******
25 February 2009
10
In short supply are the movies which act as cathartic catalysts on a
second –or-plus viewing as compellingly and strongly as on the first
viewing. The other night, overpowered by feelings of despondency and
ennui, I went to flick through my small collection of movies and on an
impulse I picked up The Shawshank Redemption. I savored every moment of
the movie even more than my first time a couple of years ago. I chalk
it up to its beautifully crafted story, its virtuoso and powerhouse
performances, and its underlying themes of hope, resolve, and ultimate
salvation. This time, in his feature directorial debut Frank Darabont
has tapped into the wellspring of King the horrible's and fashioned a
juggernaut of a prison drama out of his novella Rita Hayworth and the
shawshank Redemption. This movie stands out among other prison flicks
in that it flies in the face of conventions. Contrary to our
expectations and cheapened tastes, Shawshank does not intend to explore
the horrors of prison life as its fulcrum but the way its inhabitants
clutch at straws and pull out all stops to extricate themselves from
the shackles of the gloom of their claustrophobic mental incarceration
against all the odds turns out to be its thematic pull. And the movie
pulls it off big time. Among a mosaic of characters, events,
shenanigans and skullduggery, the movie mainly delves into the
friendship struck up between two lifers. The friendship between Andy
Dufresne, played convincingly by Tim Robbins, who is accused of
murdering his wife and her lover and sentenced to serve two concurrent
lives, and the veteran Red, the brilliant Morgan Freeman, carries the
emotional and inspirational mood of the movie. When a busload of
prisoners arrive at the max-security state penitentiary of Shawshank,
the other felons bet on who is going to burst into tears at the first
night of prison life. Red ups his antes on the seemingly brittle fresh
fish Andy, who was a respectable banker in the outside and is like a
fish out of water among a bunch of thick-skinned miscreants. Red loses
since Andy turns out to be more redoubtable and impermeable than any
prison wall several feet thick. Little do the fellow prisoners realize
at first glance what an enigmatic character he is. For the first months
he says next to nothing, meanders through other prisoners in the prison
yard minding his own business and the movie speaks through by-turn
humorous, poignant and thought-provoking narration of the omniscient
Red who is known for smuggling things in and charging a 20% markup for
the services he provides. However, Red's omniscience is not
all-encompassing and Godly enough to bore into the Sphinx-like mind of
the introverted Andy even after 19 years. On a tarring occasion, he
overhears a guard complaining about the taxes he has to pay for an
inheritance, he screws up his courage to offer him his expert advice on
tax evasion. Now, he is treated as a special guest since he cooks the
books for the prisons' powers that be who have hit pay dirt. His
financial legerdemain proves to be a double-edged sword. Now he is the
victim of his own success. A newcomer is willing to testify to his
innocence in the court but the warden regards his accountant too
valuable to be expendable. Andy survives several assaults and rapes. He
never gives up. He never cracks under pressure. Life is very simple to
him: get busy living or get busy dying. He makes the first choice and
remains true to it through thick and thin. He lives with hope as his
source of salvation. The emotional pull of the movie owes a great deal
to the spirited and flawless performances of all the cast members.
Morgan Freeman effortlessly inhabits his character as a real free man.
Tim Robbins is superlative as a quintessential embodiment of hope and
inspiration. James Whitmore, as the institutionalized prison trusty who
is suicidal in the outside, turns in a superlative performance. Hats
off to all the performers. The Shawshank Redemption is a prime example
of the gap between the box office performance of a movie and its
popularity. This movie famously bombed in the box office, barely
covering its budget. But overtime it gained in such popularity that it
has snatched the coveted toppest ranking place in IMDb from such hot
favorites and topdogs like Godfather, Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction,
the last two of which eclipsed Shawshank in 1994 Academy Awards.
Perhaps in 1994 the movie lacked the requisite word of mouth that it is
enjoying now. All in all, Shawshank is a compulsively watchable movie
with bits of pleasure withheld in every watching only to be relished on
next occasions.

******
28 January 2009
10
Very few movies that made me cry ... and (The Shawshank Redemption) is
certainly one of them. I remember when I first went to see this movie
in my freshman year in college. The movie made me appreciate freedom
and true friendship.Very powerful picture indeed and each actor deserved an Oscar for their
great performance. It is sad that the movie did not get the true scale
of recognition it deserved, but being on the IMDb top 250 movies of all
time based on people's votes is a great way to show the well earned
appreciation.If you did not watch this movie yet, then you missed a lot!

******
23 January 2009
10
Every time I watch The Shawshank Redemption it reinforces the fact that
it is my favorite movie of all time. But certainly as entertaining a
film that it is, being a personal favorite does not necessarily make it
a great film or dare I saythe greatest film ever made.But what then makes a film great? First and foremost, if it sets out to
entertain the general public, it must do that (and Shawshank certainly
does that). Its pure entertainment value is essentially a stipulation
in its inclusion in the great IMDb "greatest movie" debate. The serious
nature of its central plot pointsa wrongly convicted murderer who
assists the corrupt warden as means to affect his own escapeis
contrasted by some truly funny scenes. Although by no means a comedy,
the splendid screenplay is wrought with witty dialog. There's nothing
fancy about this filmno special effects, spectacular scenery or even a
bunch of pretty women. No, its just the telling of a story, mostly
through the narration of Morgan Freeman's character, Red, that almost
lulls viewers into believing that nothing really interesting or
important is going to happen here. But after all of the subtle plot
twists I think what makes this film great for me is I feel like I'm
actually sharing in Andy's redemption. Now if that isn't what they
teach in Film-making 101 then they should just close up the classroom.Ultimately, there cannot be a single motion picture that is the
"greatest film of all time" because as art, and in an art form as
varied as cinema, greatness must be measured by each individual.
Greatness, as beauty, truly is in the eye of the beholder. But in this
beholder's eyes I think The Shawshank Redemption is truly the greatest
film I have ever seen.

******
21 January 2009
10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
8 January 2009
10
I have seen this movie a few times. Each time with the same hope and
enthusiasm as before. The main story is obviously Andy's. His fears,
his hopes and dreams... his struggle to remain sane. As a rock hammer,
Andy chisels the prison around him. But this is more than the story of
Andy and his way out of prison. It's a tale of society, men trying to
survive trying to remain human and civilized. Red is a gentleman
masterfully played by on of the greatest actors ever. His character
adds depth to the story and makes room for hope, for friendship. All
those around Andy benefit from his morals, his intelligence, his
perseverance, his will not to let go of himself. At first we see men
with no hope, no way out of their walls. Brooks is an unfortunate part
of it. But Andy changes lives. Some study, some begin to plan life
outside the walls. Even the guards look up to a man as righteous as
they come. Every time I see it I get the same warm feeling as the first
time I saw it without actually knowing what it was, what it is... It's
only fitting it sits on top of the charts and if that makes people
watch it, it's just enough as it will bring them the same feeling again
and again. I movie to watch once a year or whenever you need a little
"pick-me-up".

******
4 January 2009
10
Despite being a very long movie, and not very action packed for that
matter, I found 'The Shawshank Redemption' one of the most entertaining
motion pictures I have ever stumbled upon. And I think that the
entertainment value a certain film may hold is largely over-looked
among film critics, and most people who watch films with a critical
eye. But I hold it as probably the single most important feature in
movies in most cases. And by entertainment value I do not only mean how
it feels when you are watching the movie, but also the picture it
leaves on your mind that makes you want to see it again, and that you
can look back at and actually experience the feeling you gain from
actually watching the film. And this is where 'Shawshank' really
shines. The 2 hours just went by, and left me with a really good
feeling after wards for some time.But the other features should not be ignored either in any case. I
really like the way 'Shawshank' makes you think. For me, it was mostly
about how good I actually have it, and about life in general. It really
made me want to better my ways in all sorts of ways. But unfortunately
it wont last forever, but that's why it's good you can see the movie
again. And when you do, it will still have the same impact on you as it
did the first time around.

******
4 January 2009
10
My story is one of fate. I went to the video store expecting to get
Terminator II on laserdisc. It was out, and out of desperation to rent
something, I asked for what was new. I was given the "Shawshank
Redemption". I had never heard of it, quite honestly, but I gave it a
try but was not expecting much but two hours of "time pass".The first time through watching it, I thought it was good. Nothing
extraordinary. But something made me watch it again. And I was hooked.
I can't explain it, but this movie gets better every time you watch it.
I ended up watching it about 8 times in that 4 day timespan.Watch this movie, as your bucket list of things to do in life. You
really have not lived till you have seen it.I admit to being completely obsessed by the movie, owning it on every
medium imaginable, and having all the books and posters about it. But
do not let my obsession dissuade you. I do not impress easily, but I
can tell you this is simply the greatest movie ever made in cinema.Every moment and every dialog of this movie fits in perfectly to create
the greatest masterpiece in American cinema.

******
24 December 2008
10
This film (or may be masterpiece) changed the whole outlook of mine
towards life. The characters played by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins
were so real and so closed to my heart that I cried and I laughed with
them while watching it for the first time.We learn from books, we learn from our parents, we learn from our
friends and we learn from movie like "The Shawshank Redemption".Once
upon a time, I was going through a bad phase of my life and bit
depressed also. Then some suggested me to watch this. What happened
next was simply miracle. The pain endured by Tim Robbins was no less
than mine. But it was hope that kept him alive. That infused a new joy
in my life and I achieved success in very little amount of time. The
dialogues are simply straight yet touching.The movie has universal appeal - It can move anyone because characters
played by Freeman and Robbins are so close to heart.Double thumbs up to Stephen King and Frank Darabont for teaming up and
offering this life changing piece of cinema.This movie was not made for Oscars (although it grabbed multiple
nominations) and not for critics (some critics ridicule about its
number position in IMDb 250). It was made for common people like us.Humble salute to all who were directly or indirectly associated with
this all time classic.

******
19 December 2008
10
Much has been written and praised (deservedly so) about "The Shawshank
Redemption." The fact that it's #1 on this list gives me faith in
humanity. Instead of talking about its obvious care with excellent
writing, directing, editing and cinematography, I'll just say how much
the film has meant to me personally. Its message of hope and, above
all, perseverance, kept me going through many of life's travails. I
think I responded to how it dealt with the day-to-day grind of life
(albeit in dramatic fashion)and even the stress of boredom. The other
thing it demonstrated was how profoundly one person can affect another
without even saying much to them. After all, Andy and Red only have one
true baring-their-souls conversation in 19 years together (One of the
greatest scenes in the history of movies, by the way). Yet we are fully
aware of how much these two meant to each other and how moved we are
when they are reunited. It's a real spiritual journey (visually as
well); almost like Red has died at the end (leaving Hell/Shawshank) and
is reborn in Zihuatanejo (Heaven)to be rejoined with the one person who
understands him. Just a marvelous, life-changing experience for me. My
thanks to all who've supported and created this movie. It will live on
and be remembered throughout the years as one of the pinnacles of human
achievement.

******
13 December 2008
10
This is such a good movie, that even to this day, many years after it
came out, I still cannot find a single person who does not like
Shawshank redemption. Everything in this film is timed well. The story is excellent and flows
with perfect timing and the editing between the sequences are great.
The acting is great, and it keeps you interested from the first to the
last frame. It also has a very clever plot. You are not 100% sure what
Tim Robbins is up to and how he has escaped until much later. Great job by everyone from director, actors to script. Just the best in
movie making.

******
2 December 2008
10
Why Shawshank Redemption isn't rated 9.9/10 is beyond me.What has caused me to reflect and comment on this film is the small
things...99.9% of movies miss them. A movie is a photographic montage
of images with sound and is meant to represent a story. Humans have
always enjoyed stories from time immemorial huddled around fires in
caves to modern things like FaceBook or YouTube, it's all about
stories.Shawshank has many small instances that Frank Darabont included like
when Red leaves a small note to Andy with a free poster when he returns
from the hospital/isolation. Another small instance is when Andy gives
Red the harmonica, it could easily not have been filmed but it touches
everyone with its deeper meanings. It's a collage of many small
instances that make it meaningful and memorable, over and over again.I am convinced that's why everyone loves this movie and watch it
repeatedly, it's the small things that touch you. How many movies have
given you the most important small message of all...of hope...it's the
most powerful of goals we can have, hope really sets you free.

******
29 November 2008
10
I'm a big Stephen King fan, and I wondered if this movie would be a
good adaptation. Some of King's work has been great on film, but others
have not translated well. No fear. As others have noted, this is an
amazing film that provides inspiration and reconnects the viewer with
the inner core of humanity. The script is great, the directing is
wonderful, and the performances are unbelievably good. To give you some
idea of just HOW GOOD this is, the first time I saw it was on an
airline. Problem was, the headset didn't work and there weren't any
other headsets. The movie is so good that I couldn't stop watching
it--and this is a movie heavy on dialogue. If you've never seen it, do
yourself a favor. NOTE: It's even better with the sound!!!

******
24 October 2008
10
Don't know how many will ever see the 2,086th comment in this site -
but just saw a friend's DVD of this film, again. I had missed it due to
being in Europe on an extended business trip when it played first-run,
and caught some portions of it a few years later, and then completely
sometime following.This was the third or fourth time I'd seen it straight through, and it
is one of those very rare films which is as good - maybe even better -
on successive viewings.Robbins, Freeman, Gunton, and all of the remaining cast - whether in
larger supporting roles or smaller - are outstanding, without a single
exception.My friend is a computer whiz, with an IQ of probably 150, and
widely-expert expert in this area. But he's so immersed in this realm,
that whenever forced to use pen and paper (instead of mouse or
keyboard) he does so on about the 5th-grade level. After the film (he
had bought the DVD, but had never seen it before) he stated he didn't
feel the Robbins character could have pulled-off all the shenanigans
with the money, from prison via mail (and perhaps sometimes using a
messenger of the warden's) the way the film depicted -- whereas today,
if such an inmate had a computer terminal available, it would be more
possible.I told him I felt certain the opposite was true. In the era of the
story, a very intelligent financially-adept individual - especially a
former whiz-kid bank V.P. - could have done what was shown even more
effectively and successfully than via computer today, with all the
firewalls, and in-house computer nerds any bank has. Someone with both
tremendous financial and hacker ability might - but not as easily as
Tim did, during a period when signatures and figures on paper and the
like were the governing elements.This aspect is one of the most critical and climactic for the story and
its very satisfying ending. And Gunton, a tremendous actor who has done
many sympathetic characters, presents one of the best performances
portraying a truly evil person - more so for the quieter and
"nasty-nice" elements of this portrayal. He juxtaposes quiet demeanor,
often even pious, with completely selfish, vicious, amoral actions, as
well as humanly possible, with his performance in this roleThis is a film for which the term "perfect piece of entertainment" does
not exaggerate.

******
10 October 2008
10
Shawshank Redemption gives the feel of a strong, firm and amazing story
that can move people while sitting down to watch it. The characters are
memorable. Morgan Freeman as Red will always be in my head. Tim Robbins
and Any Dufrense, is amazing as well. Shawshank gives the audience a
taste of a perfect movie. Movies like this don't come often. Movies
come with strong stories, but acting, and flow of this story can mess
it up. Shawshank doesn't disappoint. The acting is superb, and the flow
of the story is unforgettable. Based on the Stephen King novel, Rita
Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, I'd say this is one of the
movies where the film triumphs over the novel. The film also brings a
sense of humor, which is a very good tool for films like these, because
if everything is serious, it's very possible that it might be killed.
Well, people have their own opinion. One scene amazes me, and probably
is one of my favorite scenes in the film is when the prisoners are
watching Gilda, and they're all waiting for Rita Hayworth to do the
thing with her hair. It still makes me laugh and pleased, with the
acting and reactions of the prisoner, and the beauty of Rita Hayworth
herself. Shawshank Redemption is a one-of-a-kind film, where stories
come in, and the film enlarges the story and puts it into a whole new
level. The excellent acting, and a great adapted screenplay makes this
movie one of the greatest films ever in history.

******
9 October 2008
10
Shawshank redemption at first wont strike you as a great movie(when u
look at the cast(except Morgan) and other things) but believe me its
the best!! the story and the cast simply overwhelms you!its such a great film that one would want to watch it again and again.The movie gives a feel that not many movies can give., it gives you
sense of contempt that you had taken the right choice in seeing this
film. Well it was released when i was very young i could find time to
see it only now., and i still feel i should have seen this movie long
before!! ITS WORTH EVERY SECOND GUYS!!!Don't Miss It!!ITS THE BEST!!!

******
26 September 2008
10
I don't easily remember the names of actors of Hollywood movies,
neither do I "ever" take the time off, writing comments on any movie,
but for this movie i "have" to do it all.The whole way of presenting this movie has been outstanding, i.e. from
the beginning to the end. Great performances (Tim Robbins & Freeman
Qualifying as one my favorite actors). The whole presentation has been
very apt to the movie. But what is important is the strong message this
movie transcends, i.e. of Hope, is truly recommendable.This movie deserves an intent watch by "all". Do take you some time off
to watch the movie,if not twice, be it once.

******
30 January 2008
8
This, for me, is film at it's best. The acting, (Tim Robbins, in
particular, is amazing. Morgan Freeman is his usual wonderful self
also.) the screenplay, the production, the...well, all of it! I could
rave about it until I'm blue in the face, but I'll spare you (and
myself) that. I must have watched it over a dozen times now, and with every viewing I
still get as caught up in it as I did the first time I saw it. For me,
that's one of the marks of a special film. I'm don't really want to use
the term 'uplifting' yet again, but it is the best way to describe it. Highly recommended.

******
30 January 2008
10
When you look at IMDb's top 250 you see many famous and ambitious films
like Star Wars, The Godfather, The Lord of the Rings and others. Not
saying that these movies are bad (they are actually quite brilliant)
they were made famous because of the publicity and the abilities these
films had in the time. Star Wars started the sci-fi age, The Godfather
made people interested in the secret society of the Mafia and Lord of
the Rings brought life into the fantasy genre again. But what really
made these sublime films so popular was the publicity and the fantastic
special effects which costed certain amounts of money. In 1994 Frank
Darabont decided to have a go on one of Stephen King's novels, not
knowing what would happen. They made a film that is honest and that
contains (on the contrary to Star Wars etc.) a vital lesson, a meaning
and a message to all who watch it.This movie is redefining cinema. No explosions. No heart-stopping
excitement. No, it's pure poetry, music and sublime acting. The
overwhelming and intriguing story introduces banker Andy Dufresne
(played by Tim Robbins) who was falsely convicted for a double life
sentence in the heavily guarded establishment of Shawshank Prison. His
life must go on and he makes friends with other inmates like Red
(wonderfully acted out by Morgan Freeman) and Brooks Hatlen (James
Whitmore brings tears to your eyes). Warden Norton (played immensely
evil by Bob Gunton) and Captain Hadley (Clancy Brown) don't make Andy's
life comfortable in the prison, but with Andy's unique skills he
manages to win their attention and gratitude.This film has some terrific moments like the helicopter shot over the
Shawshank Prison and the stunningly beautiful scene where Andy locks
himself up in the Warden's office and plays Mozart to all the inmates.
Morgan Freeman's raw voice makes this moment more powerful than any
other moment in any other movie I ever saw. At the release of the film,
people criticised the film harshly and wasn't a big hit, certainly not
at the box-office. But when the film appeared in the stores it became
an enormous hit. And until this day, for over 4-5 years now I believe,
it stands on the second place in the top 250, one place away from The
Godfather.This is a film you have to see once in your life!

******
9 June 2007
10
I was at the video store with my girlfriend and we wanted to rent out a
few movies. I decided that one of the films we should rent out is 'The
Shawshank Redemption'. I had always wondered why it had such good
ratings as well as being positioned at #2 in the IMDb Top 250, and I
thought I would see just how good the movie really was.When the film concluded in a way that I would have never conceded, I
sat there in front of the TV surprised and dumbfounded. When my
girlfriend asked me what was wrong, I simply just said "That....is the
greatest movie I have ever seen in my entire life." It was not just an
ordinary and clichéd film I was watching, it was art on the screen, 2
and a half hours of extraordinary cinematography, unforgettable acting,
and a plot so compelling, that you just did not want it to end. Morgan
Freeman as Red and Tim Robbins as Andy are the perfect choices for
their respective roles. The prison setting is so daunting and visually
satisfying, while the corruption by the warden and the guards is
dreadfully brutal yet extraordinarily eye popping. I normally dislike
some movies that normally go for over 2 hours as I think they are just
dragging on, but Shawshank along with very few others kept me glued to
the screen in suspense. I hung onto every scene and every word uttered
in the entire film.'The Shawshank Redemption' is unique in its own little way, and it has
affirmed my belief that hope and courage through adversity is possible
and rewarding. Not many movies are made like this, and I just hope that
there is a movie like, but probably not as good as, 'The Shawshank
Redemption' that will be made in this hostile and cruel 21st Century.
Movies like this really change lives.10/10

******
16 April 2007
10
In the far western reaches of south west Wales I was lucky to be born
to a father who had immaculate taste in film. At the tender age of 14,
when I started to understand the complexity of human emotion I was
introduced to this beautiful film. I remember the first time I sat and
viewed the film, my father put the VHS in the video player and left me
alone to begin my relationship with this film, from the age of 14 I
reckon I must have watched this old film twice a year since and every
time I still think this is probably the best film I have ever seen.Just thought I'd express a little of how I feel about this film, hope
you don't mind.Al

******
24 January 2007
10
Hope is a good thing, and this movie can teach you about hope and no
fear about to be prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is a good thing, and
this movie can teach you about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of
you own freedom. Hope is a good thing, and this movie can teach you
about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is
a good thing, and this movie can teach you about hope and no fear about
to be prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is a good thing, and this movie
can teach you about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of you own
freedom. Hope is a good thing, and this movie can teach you about hope
and no fear about to be prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is a good
thing, and this movie can teach you about hope and no fear about to be
prisoner of you own freedom. Hope is a good thing, and this movie can
teach you about hope and no fear about to be prisoner of you own
freedom.

******
10 January 2007
10
I myself, like most people, love this movie and whenever it got to the
end where you see Andy and Red smiling and embracing on the beach it
always sent chills through my soul, but I realized that in addition to
that sequence, where not a word is spoken between the two men, it's
that 'deep blue ocean' that makes the ending so dramatic. I think with
the exception of a few outdoor scenes in the movie where you see a
little sky, the bulk of the movie is shot in the drab gray tones of
prison (cause prison is drab and gray), so when that BIG BLUE OCEAN
hit's your eyes, it makes the whole experience of their freedom and the
fact that they never gave up hope that much more dramatic.Hope is definitely a good thing and quite possibly, the best of ALL
things.

******
6 January 2007
10
I am a 38 Years old man from england who works for the second biggest
oil company in the world.........I have : lovely family......great friends.....good job.......The film is perfect time and time again every time you watch it !!!
Talking Points , Settings & locations , Actors , So much feeling ,
fantastic score , and everybody involved in the production produced a
masterpiece..........Extra special thanks to Frank Darabont ( i sincerely hope you are very
happy and everything in your life is good )..............A total must have in the collection.............Thank you Trev

******
25 December 2006
10
Andy (superb Tim Robbins) is condemned to stay all his life in prison
due to two murders he has not done. There, he will meet Red (Morgan
Freeman, impressive, these is one of the best relation love/friendship
of all the movies I've ever seen). Red understand perfectly Andy and
guides him at the first moments, as we see Andy from Red's eyes, his
loyalty and admiration. We understand all these only by his looks and
his moves, in one of the best parts of Freeman. Robbins play the part
of a distant character, brave, righteous, intelligent, but as everyone,
weak, frightened. It's like an angel in the depht of hell. The hardness
of the prison and the corruption of the prison system is perfectly told
to us by Darabont perfectly. Its realism is sometimes disgusting and
the hardest scenes touches you at the depht of your heart. The film has
a very high dramatic part, but in any moment becomes too sweety. Its
wonderful dialogues, its magnificent study of characters and their
psychologies, the charisma of Robbin's character, well absolutely
everything helps that this film becomes part of the selected group of
every time masterpieces. There are two scenes that I've loved a lot.
The one where, Andy is able to listen, relaxed to a Mozart's Opera in
the director prison's office (although being in prison, at that moment,
Andy is free). And the other where, one of the prisoners, being very
old and having spend almost all his life in prison, commits suicide as
he cannot get used to a life in freedom. However, despite all the
hardness and the few holes to hope that there's in the movie, at the
end there's always a little ray of light. The Shawshank Redemption is
that, a chant for life, for our dreams... a masterpiece.

******
18 December 2006
10
This is one of the best movies about "friendship" I've ever seen, also
one of the best prison movies. I found it better than Robert Redford's
"CASTLE". Morgan Freeman was perfect as usual and I can say that Tim
Robbins reached the top of his performance and also his career. I wish
this couple come together for another movie, the kind of it is not
important I'm sure the spectators will have the same taste as before. I
watched most of the films of Morgan Freeman and I can say this was the
best of his, normally he prefers to play in films like "Seven","Kiss
the girls","Along came a spider",... but I think he should think again
that which kind of his films stay at the top of the charts...

******
26 October 2006
10
Undoubtedly one of the greatest movies I have ever seen. The
outstanding performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman left me with
feelings so profound of being in that prison with them. Be warned that
the first half of the film is visually and psychologically confronting.The film deals with fundamental themes of friendship and hope whilst
delivering some very powerful social commentary. I am left questioning
the state of our justice system. We lock away these "threats to
society", alienate them and subject them to the most hostile and
unnatural of environments. Then when they have served their life terms,
we throw them back into society with the expectation for them to live
normally and abide by values never once upheld or taught in their
filthy prison cells. The Shawshank Redemption tells a very powerful
story. A story that made me laugh and cry. It ignited just about every
human emotion I could possibly experience in just over a two hour
period of time.A truly amazing film, 10 out of 10 from me!

******
13 August 2006
10
Ten Thumbs Up if I had them. Incredible story, incredible cast. I would
rate this as probably the best film I have ever seen and I have
probably seen it a hundred times on cable. I would have to say this
would be Morgan Freemans best performance out of all of his films.
There should have been an Oscar for him. This film definitely beat out
"Million Dollar Baby" for which he ultimately and finally received his
first Oscar. The Academy wasn't all there when "Shawshank" deserved its
due. Robbins played a great part in this film and did an excellent job
however Freeman carried the film. A true drama that shows the bond of
two people in horrible circumstances. Yes, this one is one to own, if
you don't have it...buy it. You wont be disappointed.

******
8 June 2006
10
What I can say is this is a really great movie. It tells use there
exists brightness in the darkness and never gives up hope. You will
succeed in the end. And also be ready at any time.Maybe it is because of language problem, I don't grasp it very well in
the beginning. But step by step, I understand it. And in the end, I
understand it and especially the result is out of my expectation that
doesn't happened in the movies I have ever seen in the past. And also the performance skill is another thing I like it. They are
good actors. And this is the movies that seldom take man-women
sensation as topic, but still give people good feelings.Great movie encourage you while entertaining you!

******
15 March 2006
10
You'd certainly have to be over a certain age to watch this movie. Not
because it contains small amounts of very realistic and believable
violence (kids are used to that nowadays) but very much so because of
the psychological impact it could have. Forget horror ... if I was a
kid and had seen this movie it would completely alter my perception of
humanity, given I would understand it. Once beyond that certain age
this movie will impress you, to say the least.Shawshank Redemption places a man in the wrong place, at the wrong time
(early 1900's) and in the worst kind of scenario. He's convicted of the
murder of his wife and sentenced to life imprisonment. This is how the
movie starts. From this point on the majority of the scenes will take
place in the Shawshank Prison Facility.Logicly, as a viewer, you side for the Andy Dufresne (beautifly
interpreted by Tim Robbins). It doesn't really matter whether you think
he did it or not ... he's stuck in there and it looks like he'll be
there for a while. Friendships are born and enemies are made, as you
would expect. The way this movie maintains a thrilling storyline
describing the friendships, however, is stunning. At the receiving end
of one of those friendships is 'Red' Redding (Morgen Freeman), a fellow
inmate. 'Red' can get you anything and as Andy, 'Red' is serving a life
sentence. Let's just say they have the time to get to know each other,
learn from each other and eventually save each other.Because of the limited scenery the story and acting performance gets
all the attention it deserves. If I had to condense this movie into a
few words, "intelligence, justice, friendship, being human, redemption"
would all sound like understatements. Saying anything more about this
masterpiece would spoil your viewing experience. It's just one you'll
have to watch if you love movies.

******
12 March 2006
10
*******MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD**********The story begins with the court case of Andy dufresne for the alleged
murder of his wife and her lover (the first few minutes at the start
captivate you from the beginning)Andy is wrongly convicted and sent to
Shawshank maximum security prison set with a double life sentence.Andy
finds a new companion called Red(Morgan Freeman) the man who can get
things for anyone in the prison for the right price. As a person that can get things or has been known to locate things from
time to time for somebody Red doesn't find it particularly odd that
andy asks him if he can get him Rita Hayworth in 1949.Of course he
accepts.The line that defines this great piece of cinema is "get busy living or
get busy dying".This movie is without a doubt one of my favourites and
remember always- FEAR CAN HOLD YOU PRISONER HOPE CAN SET YOU FREE!

******
6 March 2006
10
Even though this movie is over 10 years old, the message about
friendship and not ever giving up will be relevant forever. The lessons
that the main characters teach us in the face of adversity are
timeless. This is also one movie that does not get old, and I have
watched "Shawshank" many times. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were
spectacular in their performances. They teach lessons that are
extremely memorable and have quotes that you will never forget. The one
quote in the film that is a stand-out is, "Get busy living, or get busy
dying". Who would not feel the impact of that quote? This is one movie
you have to have in your library, and I am not one that usually buys
DVD's. This is a MUST SEE!!!! Don't miss this one, and also keep a box
of tissues nearby.

******
5 March 2006
10
The Shawshank Redemption as a film is the most powerful and moving
films I have seen and regard it as the best of all time yes there are
many grate film out there many that are over looked by many people but
as this film has shown box office ratings mean very little in the grand
stage time a film that ca be classed as a true classic is one like this
thats stands the test of time with grate acting and filming this one
move people in ways other films can only hope to do. An it transcends
all ages and class with a true hart felt tale of two men over coming
adversity in a truly horrible place like the Shawshank prison in this
way it moves me to think how would i cope in that place if i could at
all stand that kind of life for that long but it has a lighter side to
it as Andy get one over the Worden and escapes the cells to freedom

******
4 March 2006
10
Shawshank Redemption, based on a short story by Stephen King, is about
a man named Andy who is sent to jail after being convicted of killing
his wife and lover He adapts to jail and is planning something big -
all through the film, clues are given as to what he is doing as he
takes advantage of certain privileges he has.He makes friends with people in jail, and goes through his daily life.
Hope is all he can hold on to, count on, and rely on. Through years he
figures a way to end all of it. The story fallows himself and friends
as they try to rid themselves of an underlying feeling - a feeling of
always being trapped. They hated the walls of the jail. They've grown
used to them. And they love them. But not Andy.Everything about this movie is amazing. Screenplay,
cinematography,acting, production... its simply one of the best films
off all time.

******
3 March 2006
10
Inspirational.Get busy living or get busy dieing.....From the richness of supporting actors to the lead roles this is the
most complete drama film anyone would lucky enough to find on there own
like i did on one evening in the video store. A Tour de Force from
Castlerock, Frank Darabont, Tim, and Morgan Freeman.A path a passage call it what you will, this is what film for me is all
about, depth colour emotion and the strangest thing is...it just
doesn't happen with guys?... Well i was spellbound and shocked at the ending, and then looked after
by the director as they completed the film on the beach in Mexico.A truly wonderful film, worthy of not just the Oscar nominations but
the all the Oscars themselves. To be taken on a the most wonderful of
cinematic journeys......This is what we all dream of.Frank Darabont, Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins and Stephen King's Finest
Hour.Exceptional 10/10

******
20 February 2006
9
I rarely post comments on movies unless I, {A) Really love it, (B)
Really hate it. This falls in the 'really love' category. The first
time I watched this picture, I thought it was great, but much to dark
and emotional, and contained unnecessary violence/sexuality. After
viewing it 2 or 3 times, I finally understand why this movie is so
highly ranked by IMDb regulars, and I also have come to understand why
the scenes of violence and brutality toward Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins)
were included in this film. I also understand why James Whitmore's
character Brooks Hatlen behaved the way he did. It was all the
nastiness that happened to people we really like that makes the victory
complete at the end. 5 years ago I would have called The Shawshank
Redemption an overrated, self-indulging unnecessarily dark picture
deserving a rating of 5 or perhaps 6 at best. Now that the move is
nearly 12 years old, and now that I've watched it enough to finally
"get it", I must agree with the masses and score this with a 9+. One of
the best movies ever made and certainly the best of the Stephen King
adaptations. How could I have been so obtuse?

******
18 February 2006
10
Nothing in the history of the entertainment industry compares to this
films wonderful, inspiring and completely unforgettable ending. The
title of the film is the on criticism you could make of this
masterpiece. If you talk to any group of people about "what's the best
film ever made" you're almost guaranteed that someone in the group will
mention this film.The script is superb and both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins really do
make it a moving story of friendship, dignity, and most importantly
hope. It's one of those films where you feel obliged to recommend it to
everyone you know. Theirs something so special about this film and you
shouldn't be allowed to talk about films if you've missed this gem.

******
17 February 2006
9
This movie has to be one of the very best films i've seen in my
lifetime. I am usually not that fond of drama films but the portrayal
of the characters and the amazing script made it a perfect translation
from the Stephen King book. Morgan Freeman gives one of his best
performances in this movie and actually makes you believe him as a jail
smuggler, better than Chris Rock in the Longest Yard ever did. The
cinematography is brilliant showing the sheer scale of this old
decaying prison. The movie may not have received any Academy Awards
(the show was stolen by Forrest Gump that year) but it still remains to
be one of the best films around. If your looking for a deeper movie
more than you're typical action flick, this will provide what you were
looking for. Go out and rent it, heck go and buy it because you'll want
to watch it time and time again.

******
22 September 2005
10
I think the shawshank redemption is the best film ever made. It is
considered as a drama, but in my opinion this fantastic and
entertaining movie has no genre. In my country (Argentina) not a lot of
people has seen it but i'm trying to change that situation by
recommending it to everybody. Despite not having a great success while
it was at the theaters, now with the VHS and the DVD, a lot of people
is having a chance to enjoy 142 minutes of greatness and get away from
their boring lives at least for just a while. I find the twist that the
story makes when Andy escapes from shawshank as simply perfect and
unexpected. The only thing i consider that is wrong on the film is that
when the movie is over you want to see more and you can't see more
because the movie ended and ended perfectly, but i think that with a
masterpiece like the shawshank redemption not even 10 hours of movie
would be enough. Well i've got a lot more things to say but i don't
know really how to express myself. So if haven't seen it, what are you
waiting for? just put your shoes on a go running to the video and i
know you'll enjoy it. I would like to know who is Allen Greene, i'll
get very happy if you e mail me back telling me who he is. Simply the
best movie ever made.

******
10 September 2005
10
This is the only film I have seen more than once. The cast is first
rate with everyone giving a great performance. Morgan Freeman takes the
first place and also Tim Robbins shows a great performance. There are
many memorable scenes in the film. This film can change your point of
view for the life, it has that power. It teaches not to give up. Thanks
to Stephen King (short story Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption)
and Frank Darabont (screenplay) and all others who made that fantastic
film. I can not call it just a film. It should be the number one on the
list and it will be! As it says 'Fear can hold you prisoner hope can
set you free'.

******
21 August 2005
10
This movie i don't know how did i miss it. heard from no one at all. N
e ways not many good movies are subject of talking in India and 2 days
ago i was searching IMDb ( which i know since just a few days ago ) and
i got this movie name a couple of times in few titles...guess what
thought of renting it to give a try to IMDb and OH MY GOSH I know i am
writing about a movie which is more than 10 years old...but Oh my its
kind of 4:00 am now and i have just finished watching this..and man
this is for sure in my Top 5 movies of all times ( u know i just don't
have Hollywood movies in my list but bollywood movies too ) and it
makes it to Top 5 explains that what a great movie this is...The story is simple...but boy try to do some guessing work here and if
u succeed tell me...Morgan Freeman is phenomenal actor. This movie is
his legendary work...the other guy ...i am seeing him for first
time..and i kind of believe now that he is great actor..But all credit goes to the Director and the Writer of this wonderful
movie...Such a simple story told so powerfully and controlled so
amazingly ..is just great.This one sure gives hope to most hopeless people in world...Watch it guys if u still haven't ...this is best Hollywood can give u
...believe me and zillion fans...and now i have to specially thank IMDb and fans of this movie on
IMDb...its u who recommended me this amazing movie...thnx so much...

******
28 July 2005
10
The first time I saw "The Shawshank Redemption" I was only 12. At the
time I was amazed at how a movie could present so much emotion. As I
have grown, my taste in movies has also. Still, I rank "Shawshank" as
my favorite film, the one that I could watch every day for the rest of
my life. If you have not seen this film, I pity you. Do not just rent
it at your local Blockbuster. I implore you step away from your
computer, go out to the nearest store, and buy this movie. Not only do
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins give performances that will make you
question your humanity, but you will most definitely learn something
that will benefit you as a person. So, if you are yet to see this film,
you must (in the words of Andy), "Get busy livin', or get busy dyin'."

******
28 October 2003
10

'94...the year the greatest movie to exist on this site was created...to
bad
you movie-goers disagree. Godfather Part I is a classic, but get real you
can't defy this movie.  It may get slow at points but it overcomes that
with
amazing cleverness and a few tricks up the director's sleeve. If you see
or
have seen this movie you will find or know that this movies brings out
many
surprises.

******
30 July 2003
10

One of the best films I've ever seen you just have to see it for yourself
and you will know why, However if you're a big Sly or Arnold fan, you may
not like it as it doesn't have any exploding cars, plus it has a lot of
dialogue and some words with more than two syllables  

******
22 December 2002
10

I can't believe I waited this long to watch this movie. But I saw it was
going to be on tv tonight so I sat down and watched it. It was time well
spent. The acting was excellent (especially Tim Robbins), the storyline
was
interesting...everything was great. As another reviewer mentioned, the
time
flies by when you're watching it. When the movie finished, I looked at
the
clock and was amazed that 3 hours had gone by. I'll certainly watch this
movie again.

******
19 August 2002
10

I have come here, writing my review, after just watching this wonderful
film. My soul is full! Overflowing tears of joy down my face. Therefore, I
am afraid that the tremendous emotion tremble will not let me be
objective.
However, I really do not care; I'm just writing to share with all of you
the
greatness of this movie. A movie that brings to screen hope, despair, true
friendship, perseverance and human nature like no one before. If you just
are reading reviews to see if the film is worthwhile, well don't lose more
time and watch it!

******
11 July 2002
10

This is a movie to be watched over and over.  Each time I get a little bit
more out of it.  Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins have a great chemistry
together.  Many people do not realize that this movie was based on a Stephen
King (one of my favorite authors) novel, "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption", especially since it is not of the horror/sci-fi genre. I was
really glad to see this one at the top of the list. 

******
9 July 2002
10

This is one of the most awe inspiring stories ever committed to
film,
its thought provoking, utterly compelling viewing makes this undoubtedly one
of the best films ever made and a must see for people of all
ages.

******
2 June 1999
10

I tell you my voice sailed higher and farther than anybody in a grey place
dares to dream to see my favorite movie still reigning at the number 1
spot
on the top 250. Redemption, now let me see, I don't think I know what that
means, to tell you the truth that's a politicians word. What do you really
want to know, does redemption happen in this film, well yeah, I don't have
it stuffed down my pants right now, sorry to say but I'll tell you.  I
suggest you just get busy livin or get busy dyin before you find out how
salvation lies within. I have to remind myself that some films aren't
meant
to be caged and kept to yourself, that there's something inside that they
can't touch, i'm talking about hope. Those who know Shawshank best talk
about
it often, but its that much more drab and empty now that its gone out of
theaters.  It's not easy peasy japanesey any more, its more like skin
burning and half blind from that delousin stuff they throw on you. It
looked
at first like a stiff would blow it over, but that was my first impression
of the film. There's nothing left but all the time in the world to think
about why you haven't seen Shawshank yet.  From now on I'll write two
comments a day about this film instead of one.  

******
7 May 1999
9

This is one of my favourite films ever. Why? Well a lot of reasons really.
But mostly because of the plot. It contains just about everything needed
for
a film to really work like art. The actors are superb (note: Freeman - why
he didn't receive an Oscar for this one, I'll never understand). The story
is great, and written by my all time favourite writer - Stephen King
(Misery, Dolores Claiborne, The Shining, Carrie and more), which are all
among my absolute top films. Try them out. I promise you all several great
movie-moments.

******
19 April 1999
10

This film is hard, exciting, realistic, beautiful and surprising. The
Shawshank Redemption completely absorbs you and constantly throws you back
and forth between joy and sadness.
It simply blew me away, and if it was possible, I would give it 11 without
thinking twice.  

******
22 March 1999
7

I'm sorry, I can't buy these guys as criminals, and that ruined the
"suspension of disbelief" for me. Otherwise, an excellent
story.

******
16 March 1999
10

Wow. I love this movie. To date I have probably watched it nearly 40
times... I am not obsessive, whenever it is on, I watch
it.For most movies, at least the dramatic ones, I measure them based on how
they make me feel. This one makes me feel sad when Brooks dies, angry when
Tommy dies, and happy when Red finds his friend. This movie makes me feel
good. I know that is not very scientific, but it's the truth. Because of the
way it plays on me, I can't help but give it a 10. Here's
why:First off, the acting. Tim Robbins is SO subtle that he strikes me as a
person that tries to bury his innocence, because in reality it does not
matter. Few would argue that Morgan Freeman is brilliant, as usual. But here
the supporting cast throws in with equally impressive performances.The Score. Outside the music from the records appearing in the movie, the
relatively unobstructive score just helps us confirm what our eyes see, the
walls of Shawshank. We feel them, through the music, and break through them
as Andy does.And last but not least, My compliments on the cinematography. The site is
perfect for the movie, and the clever camera angles and lighting invite us
into the dreary prison world.

******
15 March 1999
10

One interesting thing about this movie is how quickly it seems to pass.  The
movie could have continued this story for another 2 or 3 hours and I don't
think it would have lost my interest.  I think just because normal people
like this movie is no reason to lower its rating with the 'movie critics'.
The best movie ever???  Definitely.  Everything else pales in
comparison. 

******
12 March 1999
10

I won't repeat the ravings by others about this Movie (yes, that's a
capitalized M!) I'll just share with you my experience watching it on CNN
last month. I'm a graduate student, and midterm week was approaching. I
constantly said to myself: Ok, I'll go to the library at the next commercial
break ... but without me knowing it my butt was glued to the seat after the
first 5 minutes... and by and by I forgot I was watching a film. Finally
when it was over I was left tearful and speechless. It was that powerful an
experience. I even feel that my life is enriched so much more after watching
the film. Those 3 hours are worth every second of it, I can tell you that! 


******
21 February 1999
10

This is my favorite movie of all time. There is to many wonderful things
that I can say about this movie, but  I will only say one. This is the only
movie I have ever cried in at the end. It wasn't a sad ending, it was a
happy ending. But That final monologue Tim Robbins gave about hope stuck with
me to the end.
Robbins and Freeman had great chemistry and I hope they will be in
more movies together. Shawshank Redemtion gets a prefect 10, becuse it is a
perfect movie.

******
2 February 1999
10

Shawshank describes one of the most honest truths of this world today--hope
is the reason we keep on living.  The reason Red was able to overcome his
desire to kill himself or anyone else (to break parole) was the hope of a
better life helping Andy.  I think that this main theme is best described in
one of the end sayings---get busy living, or get busy dying.  Great
movie! 

******
1 February 1999
10

Run Tim Robbins's name in the database, and I don't think you'll find that
he's starred in too many movies worth watching.  Generally, most movies he's
in have the subtlety of a ball peen hammer across your forehead.  This movie
atones for a thousand sins.  Carefully written, deliberately paced, lovingly
acted, this film brings you in and leads you to the light on the other side.
Nothing is forced, but not a single plot thread is left dangling.
Hollywood needs a lot more movies like this one.  See it
twice.

******
31 January 1999
10

This movie is one of the few movies that I love to see over and over again.
Each time I see it, I learn more and more.  Like figuring out the joke about
"salvation lies within."  I also learned that the movie is more about Red
than it is about Andy.  It is as if Andy was sent there by God to give Red
hope and to bring good to what was evil within.  This movie has everything a
movie needs.  It makes you laugh, cry, and feel really good, giving you a
feeling of hope. 

******
27 January 1999
10

The first time I saw this movie I loved it. But I loved it more and more
every time I saw it again. If you want to have a good and entertaining time
watching a movie, buy this movie.

******
2 December 1998
10

This movie is flawless in my opinion.  Every situation and character are so
intricately woven, there is no wasted celluloid here.  Every aspect of the
movie, from acting, directing, and all factors that make up a masterpiece
are in top form.  It is truly a testament to the spirit of man and how each
one of us handles what life throws at us in our own way.  If you are feeling
down, give it a watch and it's hard not to be inspired.  I find more meaning
with each viewing.  It's one of the few movies that I've not grown tired of
watching again and again.  Once again, in my opinion, it's one of the
best!

******
30 September 1998
10

An inspirational and warm-hearted movie that almost put me to tears at the
end. This is one of those rare movies that gets better and better the more
times you watch it. The great lines in this movie just made it that much
better. The friendship that was portrayed by the main characters Tim Robbins
and Morgan Freeman were totally convincing. It's such an involving movie
that grabbed me from the start, and the great music didn't hurt either.
Don't miss this powerful prison drama that  shows that "hope is a good
thing, maybe the best of things."

******
28 August 2013
5
''He that lives upon hope will die fasting.'' - Benjamin Franklin Frankly, I really don't get the praise for this film. It wouldn't even
be in my Top 250. The only thing my spouse has been able to glean from researching the
topic on the internet is that psychologically people seem to like the
film more and more upon repeated viewings. Well, that and Morgan
Freeman's calming voice. Not that challenging cinematically and a bit of a fantasy that pawns
itself off as gritty realism, to be honest. Not to be an alarmist, but part of me wonders whether this film would
be Exhibit A should the country ever descend into a fascist
dictatorship much like "From Caligari to Hitler" by Siegfried Kracauer
examined German film during the rise of the Nazi's after World War I.
There is something going on on a group psychology level here that bears
examination.

******
7 December 2005
10
When someone who has never seen this asks why this is my favorite movie
- I never know what to tell them. It's the perfect movie, it's like God
decided to allow the creators, writers, and actors to blend perfectly
together - with the end result being the greatest movie ever written.
The first time I saw it, I thoroughly enjoyed it but didn't allow for
the intake of dramatic genius to fully set in. I have seen it over 100
times since I first 'experienced' it, and now it is impossible for me
to watch any scene without getting chills down my spine. Frank Darabont
should have a day made in his name for his adaptation of Stephen King's
compelling and brilliant story. No one could have surmised that
allowing for one of the more likable inmates to be killed would make
the movie even MORE powerful...but he did. One last thing...I just
wanted to thank God for allowing them to change the ending to that of a
diminishing Robbins and Freeman at the end, no words needed.

******
4 December 2005
10
Definitely NOT your ordinary Stephan King adaptation. 'The Shawshank
Redemption' is one of the few movies I've seen, where emotion and story
are perfectly blended into one absolutely AMAZING story! You can feel the terror from Andy's trial, you can feel the happiness
from the beer on the roof scene,the anger from scenes involving The
Sisters, the shock when he learns that Tommy was killed, and the hope,
joy and happiness gathered together when Andy escapes.The acting was amazing, the adaptations from the book were spot-on,
this is the greatest adaptation I have ever seen. Of all the people in
the world, I have never met one person who didn't enjoy it.If you haven't seen it; why are you sitting there? Go out and rent it
and see for yourself, how amazing this film is!

******
11 September 2003
10

I have long viewed the Shawshank Redemption as the most underrated film of
all time.  That isn't to say that it wasn't universally acknowledged by the
movie-going public as a great movie, but in terms of awards, critical
acclaim, and best ever lists, this has somehow kept on losing out.  Now that
I see it has the number two position, as voted by the movie-going public, on
probably the most accurate best ever list in the world (AFI be damned), I am
eminently pleased.  There is no way Forrest Gump should have won best
picture over Shawshank.  Certainly, Forrest Gump is a charming, well-acted
film, but it is nothing compared to this.  Morgan Freeman excels, and Tim
Robbins turns in his best performance.  If you haven't seen this
masterpiece, get up and rent it immediately.

******
11 May 1999
10

It was a great and a pleasant surprise to see that the movie that I chose
almost five years ago as my favorite movie of all time is the number one
on
the list. Although it's my favorite, my choice was based mostly on my
personal reaction toward this movie and I did not expect that there are so
many people that feel the same way I do about it. I love every single
thing
about this movie, every single shot. And believe me I know what I'm
talking
about because it's the only movie that I've seen so many times and it
never
failed to amaze me.A great story based on Steven King's novella, great
direction by Frank Darabont, and great acting by Tim Robbin and Morgan
Freeman. Not to mention music, and the truly original and always inventive
dialogue. Every body who commented here on this movie probably mentioned
all
the obvious great things about it. I would like to add one thing that made
this movie even more spectacular to me. The movie contains scenes that
present a complete idea that stand and work on its own. Like the scene
when
Andy plays Mozart or the scene on the roof. Critics might choose others,
but
there's no other movie touched my soul like this one, and I've seen
thousands of them. Remember "Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of
things,
and no good thing ever dies".  

******
21 April 1999
10

In the first thirty minutes of watching this show on a slow Saturday
afternoon I knew it was my favorite.  I was captured instantly by how the
story unfolded.  You can't help but deeply respect Andy Dufrain (I don't
know if thats spelled correctly).  The way he speaks with thought and
hope,
the way he walks about the jail collecting rocks.  Seemingly oblivious to
the fact that he is imprisoned in a jail.  They couldn't have found a
person
that suited the roll of Red better than Morgan Freeman.  His voice is
perfect for the narration of the film.  Every card played by this movie
was
an ace.  From the way they filmed the tall, barren walls of the prison to
the brilliant story( thanks to Stephen King for that), and let's not
forget
the music.  I am pleased to see that it's in the top spot of this site, I
think it deserves it.

******
10 April 1999
9

Ok, as I give this movie a 9, it is going to be hard to be critical, but I
feel as though that is the responsibility of anyone who doesn't rate a movie
a 10.First of all, the acting was sensational - as good as I have seen in a long
time. The direction was great and the script was great. And, it turned into
(unexpectedly) a true buddy story.I could only criticize a couple things - one of which was NOT the length -
2:20. I found it a little troubling that most of the criminals were
extremely nice guys - except for the obligatory bad guys in the shower. I
also have to confess a real distaste for the homosexual overtones -
especially early on. But, then what prison movie attempting to depict real
life could leave that out???Also, prison movies in the 1940's, 1950's and 1960's are not my favorite
genre, however one of the advantages of prison movies are that you really
don't care very much what period it takes place in. Anyway, that is just
personal preference.All in all, it deserves the praise it gets. I'm very glad I finally took the
time to watch it.  

******
7 April 1999
10

I really like this movie.  It was very well done and the screen play
was
great.  Totally awesome plot and the best acting I have ever saw.  I would
recommend this movie to anyone.  It was a movie to die for.  You could
tell
that they put time and efffort into making this masterpiece.


******
5 April 1999
10

Stephen King was surely pleased to see one of his works faithfully
represented on-screen. The director does an excellent job of showing the
bleakness of prison life, the frustration of a life gone awry, and the
misery of losing all one holds dear in life, while somehow preserving the
hope of better things to come. Every actor was perfectly cast and the
story-line draws to a perfect and satisfying close. If you enjoyed the
film,
you'll love the book from whence it came; "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption".

******
22 January 1999
10

An outstanding movie about perseverance, brains and irony.
It's certainly the greatest prison movie ever made. But there's a lot more
involved than your average prison flick has to offer.
Try character and character development for starters.The best thing King has written, I love "Salems Lot" but how can you top
this one.

******
8 January 1999
10

I have always loved movies in which to overcome odds, a character must
think, and not just use muscle. The Shawshank Redemption is one of, if not,
the best example of this!!! I LOVE IT!

******
6 December 1998
10

I am so pleased to see the high rating this movie has received. Many people
I know have never heard of it, but when I tell them about it and they rent
it, they are 'converted'!!
Compared to so many recent movies that are eye-candy, this film delivers the
true meaning of friendship and focuses on this aspect instead of flasy cars,
lasers, dumb plots and high paid actors bloated with self
confidence.Another movie along the same line is "Spitfire Grill". Rent it and you will
probably enjoy it as much.

******
18 November 1998
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest movies I have ever seen.  It
is truly one of the most fulfilling movies ever made.  There are so many
good things about it that it is hard to even come close to mentioning all of
them, so I'll only mention the one thing I liked the most.  I liked the fact
that the movie could have ended a couple different times, and it still would
have been one of the best, but for Shawshank that just wasn't good enough.
It kept going until you felt the ending was so perfect, that you truly had
to sit back breathless.  I love this movie and it will always be one of the
best as far as I am concerned.  A true classic!

******
9 November 1998
10

When I signed up for the IMDB they ask you what your favourite movie is?
Shawshank rose to the top of my mind immediately.  This film brought hope
and inspiration to most hopeless and soul robbing of environments.  Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman are fantastic!
Does Steven King have more stories like this one?

******
7 November 1998
10

I loved this movie! Beautifully filmed, the story is told as if time does
not matter. No plot that has to be rushed through, no fast cars or anything.
Just a very good story by Stephen King, marvellous actors and a lot of
exciting emotions.
It made me feel good to watch a man who keeps his hope for so many years.The scene with the Mozart-record broke my heart!

******
28 October 1998
10

The great Morgan Freeman continues to spin out superlative performances.
This is one of his finest, a difficult and complex portrayal of a veteran
convict, who is so long a part of the numbing prison culture that we're
somewhat surprised by his sympathetic understanding of the unfortunate Andy
DuFresne, movingly interpreted by Tim Robbins. People are in prison, for the
most part, because they belong there. Prisoners don't normally exude
compassion for their fellow unfortunates, but Freeman's "Red" noticed right
away that DuFresne was of different stuff. Their friendship cut across both
racial and social lines, and that it was forged in the furnace of a prison
conducted by so corrupt a warden as Norton, was a magnificent testimony to
their bond. Clancy Brown as the warden's personal storm trooper could have
been reduced to caricature, but he turned this difficult role into a
memorable portrayal of mindless violence. The great revelation in this film
was Bob Gunton as the warden. There has rarely been, if ever in film, a
keener reading of a character given the charge of men who've been reviled by
society, and thus forgotten and who are totally dependent upon his good will
for their very survival. Norton was the essential bureaucrat who, given
sufficient backing from an indifferent public, can build from the
foundations up, a system which brutalizes and murders men, and which
exploits the last vestiges of their self-respect for his personal ends. The
narration by Freeman in his great baritone lent an authentic base line for
the kaleidoscopic unfolding of the film. James Whitmore's poignant turn as a
man doomed to death outside of prison is proof of what lengthy incarceration
to do to a man, turning him into a slave who is addicted to the very
structure which denies his humanity. That both DuFrense and "Red" each
managed to leap over the abysses which yawned before them, was the great
cathartic experience of the film.

******
18 March 2009
10
I am bowled over by this movie. This is simply the best movie ever
made. The story just leaves you moved and the performances in the movie
are clearly the best performances ever on screen. Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman enact their roles to perfection, they don't miss out
even a dot in fulfilling the roles to excellency.I cant believe i waited so long before i actually watched this movie, i
should have watched it before, and then over and over again.Don't be scared to watch this movie, you will be amazed by this
masterpiece. I cant stop raving, I say WATCH IT NOW! 10 on 10 isn't
enough!

******
2 October 2008
10
I know 'Best Movie Ever' sounds like such a cliché, a phrase used to
death. Many people use it on movies which really do not deserve to be
called the best movie ever. I believe that the phrase ' Best Movie
Ever' should be reserved for one movie only. The Shawshank Redemption.
Not so long ago on IMDb, The Shawshank Redemption was ranked 2nd. This,
naturally, compelled me to buy it, and then i discovered what makes up
a truly great movie.Simple plot, wonderfully acted and directed.Since
watching The Shawshank Redemption, i have been preaching to all my
friends to watch it. And here i must do the same. It is ranked #1 on
IMDb for a reason. It is the best ever. It will move you. You will love
it. If you haven't seen it, watch it.10/10

******
4 March 1999
10

I think that the Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movies ever made.
The acting is crisp and full of endless tension, sometimes forlorn and on
other occasions full of fear. How Stephen King could come up with a horror
story like this is beyond me. It's a real nightmare to be in a penal system
with so many things going against you. Personally, I think that Forrest Gump
(FG) is also a tale of Hope, but in a different sense. Firstly, FG shows the
hope of waiting for the woman you love for over 20 years. Secondly, FG shows
that there can be hope for mentally disabled people to continue in society
and aim for goals. I think that both movies are great and should not be
missed or inappropiately criticised.
I also urge people to watch La Vita e bella (Life is beautiful) as it is as
good as The Shawshank Redemption and has some similar points.
May we all hope for more movies like these.PS Also watch It's a Wonderful Life (James Stewart) as this is about hope as
well. 

******
17 March 2006
10
I saw this movie for the first time a year ago. In those days I was
browsing the IMDb when I saw this movie ranked #2 in the top 250. That
was very weird for me because I never heard about "The Shawshank
Redemption" before. So I decided to go and rent it immediately. After
watching the movie I was positively surprised. Definitely this is the
best movie I've ever seen. The story, the direction and the cast
(Specially Tim, Morgan and Gil Bellows) are perfect! The Shawshank
Redemption really deserves that spot in the rankings. This movie is a
"must see"! Thanks IMDb and all IMDb users for the top 250 and the
wake-up call!

******
5 March 2006
10
The best movie I've ever seen. I've seen her more than twenty times and
it's always perfect. On the 10th year anniversary DVD edition Frank
Darabont claims that the movie has helped people through divorces and
losing love ones and so on, just see the movie and you'll understand
why.The scene were Andy Dufresne finally gets out of Shawshank and he's
standing in the rain and raising his hands is one of the better scenes
in the movie history. I've got that poster up on my wall. It's amazing
how you feel brightened when you see that particular scene.Try seeing the movie a couple of times, and then reading the book which
is written by Steven King, and then seeing the movie again. It pushes
the movie up to another level and you'll like it more thereafter.

******
20 December 2005
10
This particular movie is the absolute best ever and should be rated #1
of all times.With all the pages of comments that have been posted on this site; I
will not even attempt to add to the eloquence of the previous comments.I have noticed that many people have posted that they did not see this
movie in the theaters. I would not even watch the movie on VHS as my
wife and children begged me to take a look at the film.The title did not appeal to me and I did not understand the title. I
don't particularly like any prison movies. I just would not watch the
film and I was probably watching ten movies per week at that time.I finally watched when one night; I could find nothing appealing in the
video store. From that moment in 1997; I've probably watched the movie
about 20 times per year for the last eight years.People refer to all the "classics" as being such masterpieces; but, I
disagree. "Citizen Kane", "Some Like It Hot", "African Queen",
Casablanca", "Godfather" and all the others can not compete with
anything about this movie.

******
7 February 2005
10
Thanx to everybody who helped to put Shawshank back to rank 2 in the
top 250, in front of LotR3, where it belongs. I've seen this movie
about 20 times and I never get tired of it. That's what makes a movie
the best. The first 2 in the top 250 are where they belong. The 3
LotR-movies should be out of the top 10. They should create a category
for special effects. Put them on top there. But for a great movie it
need a lot more then effects. The story of Shawshank is absolutely
great. The actors did their best. It's still a shame, that this great
movie didn't got a single Oscar. It could have win the best picture in
most years against all winners.

******
27 January 1999
10

How many ways can I list why this is best movie of all
time?1.  The most perfect ending of any movie I've ever seen.
2.  Best story - Steven King (not even a fan of his)
3.  Best acting performance: Morgan Freeman, absolutelyamazing, best ever (Tim Robbins is brilliant also)
4.  Best narration - Morgan Freeman's character
5.  Most uplifting, touching, moving story ever told.
6.  Outstanding soundtrack
7.  Beautiful cinematography.
8.  Most evil antagonist - The warden
9. Best dialogue - so many memorable phrases and quotes!I could keep going.  I've never encountered a movie that has touched so many
people. 

******
31 December 2005
10
The Shawshank Redemption is an example of magical film-making at its
best. When I say best, I really mean it. There are a lot of great films
out there, and a lot that make me glad I saw them. But Shawshank is,
above all of them, at the top of the list.I love this film. Every time any part of it appears on TNT I stay to
watch until the end. I just got the DVD on New Years Eve and watched
the whole thing through until 12:34 am. It was the most enjoyable thing
I could have watched that night.Every part of the story is engrossing from the very first scene. The
film has a way about itself that is uniquely its own. From the way it
is shot to the musical score (a masterpiece by Thomas Newman).Any film enthusiast, writer, storyteller, actor, or human being must
watch this film. It is masterfully executed from one scene to the next,
pristinely edited, and in so many words...perfect. I myself am a
filmmaker and have hard time watching even great films without judging
what I consider mistakes scene-by-scene. Shawshank pulls me out of that
awareness and into a wonderful story and I have watched again and
again. It never stops being great. As a writer or storyteller I have the utmost respect for Mr. Daramont
as well as Mr. King. The dialog throughout the film is understated and
magnificent. There are more than half a dozen classic, memorable scenes
that I consider iconic from this film. And to top it off, the
performances from all the actors, specifically Mr. Freeman and Mr.
Robbins, are timeless.If you have not seen The Shawshank Redemption please make a point to
make sure you do at some point soon. It is one of the best films ever
made.

******
12 February 2006
10
simply the best movie ever made. this movie embraces the philosophy
that justice will be done, karma is heard and that goodness will rule
above anything in this world. Andy and reds friendship is a strong
unique bond, founded under the harshest of circumstances. In prison
they each serve their time for situations they got themselves into, but
certainly didn't form them as men - or messed with their true
character. Andy has no choice but to try and accept his fate, that he
will be in Shawshank forever - and on the surface he rises to the
occasion by doing the paperwork for the sadistic warden, who treats
Andy like the lowest of the low. In the meantime Reds parole is
continuously declined, and they both have to re-adjust, even though
their life in prison sometimes offers them glimpses of hope and of
freedom. Will the time really come, and if yes...are they ready for it?

******
24 November 2003
10

I remember when i first saw this film. my friend kept telling me to watch
it
as he thought it was brilliant. well, all good things come to those who
wait
yes? i did something I had never done before or since: when i finished
watching it i rewound it and watched it again straight after.It has a
perfect cast, story and the best ending of any film i have ever seen.To
sum
up in one word: magical!

******
3 September 2002
4

Come on guys! According to the IMDb Top 250 THIS is the second best film
EVER!! Better than Citizen Kane? Better than Godfather Part II? Better than
ALMOST EVERYTHING?!?!No, it's a very, very long, very, very predictable, very, very cliched,
very. very old-fashioned and sentimental film, blessed by some good
performers (especially James Whitmore, who, alas, does not figure
prominently enough.)It worries me that many of the comments  here seem to think the film
artistically transcends the usual Hollywood fare, when in actual fact, it
wallows in all the conventions of its genre.I give it 6/10, mainly because I like Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman.The only people who could mistake this for a Great Film, would be those who
mistake the works of Stephen King for Great Literature.

******
26 December 2000
10

I enjoyed reading Stephen King's short story "Rita Hayworth And Shawshank
Redemption" from the book "Different Seasons" more than watching the
movie.
However, it's still one of my favourite movies of all time.It has very few peers, and has to be seen. It is Awesome.

******
8 March 2016
10
To this day, I watch this movie at least twice a year. I love the
deeper subplots that seemed so believable. The script is well written
and directed. There is something to be said for a late 1990s movie that
is still in circulation and used in curriculum.There is also the fact that it was filmed so much ahead of the
technology we now have access to. Amateur film makers make movies on
tablets. Its a grizzly reflection of how quickly life could change and
the prison system. It continues to remind me of a time I will never fully understand but
oddly, can deeply relate to based on my upbringing. If you are looking
for a movie to watch for a tradition, this is it.

******
7 March 2016
10
The Shawshank Redemption" is a film that is able to show the triumph
of the human spirit in a memorable way. I'm not sure how I will review
contribute to the understanding of this masterpiece, but I will try to
describe how I felt after watching. At the beginning it can be seen
that this is not a typical buddy- prison film. The film is an extended
version of the story by Stephen King Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption". Frank Darabont is the director and screenwriter. He takes
us through the story of the time, friendship, justice, freedom, hope
and eventual redemption in difficult conditions for life. Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is a successful banker who is innocent is
accused of killing his unfaithful wife and her lover. Andy gets
sentenced to union two life sentences and by pointing to the prison
Shawshank Maine. We follow Andy's destiny through the eyes of the
narrator and Andy's companion in prison Red (Morgan Freeman), a
prisoner sentenced to life imprisonment, which is over the back but was
cut from 20 years of punishment. Red is retiring type, a great balancer
between the prisoners' groups that are separated by prison guards and
led a brutal and maniacal Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown phenomenal role).
Red is also the key man if you in jail should get anything, cigarettes,
chewing gum, shoelaces, or a piece of tools, old fox that has adapted
to prison life, then everything that Andy is not.The first parts of the film cut to the majority of films that deal with
themes that include prison and convicts. These parts are almost always
emotional strong. Faithfully show the good and bad in prison in the
struggle, or the imposition of conditions or rather the will of an
individual or group. During this period, the characters are formed in
the eyes of the viewer. We can feel the conflict of the human psyche in
unnatural conditions. It is amazing to watch how Andy confronts terror
by Bogs (Mark Rolston). It is interesting how his resistance confuses
other prisoners and prison staff. Andy is one popular way managed to
disrupt the prison routine. The turnaround began when Andy, while
working on the prison board, advisory appearances and helping sadistic
madman Hadley. Cold beer is not a reward, it is a change that Andy
wanted to feel.In the second part of the film's atmosphere is changing and there are
slower film, which is likely to surprise many of us. Andy becomes
accountant corrupt and cruel prison warden. Bob Gunton is solid in the
role of Warden Samuel Norton. From this position, Andy begins to change
everyday life in prison. Twenty years he finds a subject of interest.
The account of the prison warden is getting fatter, and Andy on the
other hand more and more free. The culmination occurs Andy's hard
knowing that he is innocent. At that moment, I sensed that the
renovation of the library is not redemption. "Andy is really innocent!"Red accelerates its narration. Calm character becomes restless. He
feels that he is missing something. He is afraid that his friend was in
a desperate state can commit suicide. Andy's not like that. Calm
accepts the punishment. Knowledge about the death of Williams, because
he knew the truth, helped to Andy to decide. We find that it is quiet
and calm character creates persistent and determined. However, we
showed that in some examples. Only some "beer", "opera" or
"graduation". Andy over twenty years did not lose hope and worked on
his escape from Shawshank. Once initiated actions, will drag with it a
series of chain reactions in which each in their own way to experience
their redemption. The story is not a realistic picture of a state
prison where convicts serving life in prison. This is probably part of
fiction by Stephen King. I'm a big fan. The film is executed with some
silly reasons. For example, in a time interval of 30 years characters
is not physically changing. The idea of the story is summed up in just
a few sentences of dialogue between the main characters, and the
reflections of the narrator Red. The Shawshank Redemption" is a
remarkable film. A man without hope is just a straight line. Everything
in life can make sense if your will fulfill humanity. A story in which
Rita, Merilyn and Raquel make sense is sufficient indication. Will be
remembered friendship the two main characters. Masterful performance by
Morgan Freemen. I well remember a moment in which dominates
unforgettable Bill Bolender as a murderer Elmo Blatch. I get goosebumps
every time. Redemption? I think for the time of your life people often
redemption only rarely when they are aware of.

******
6 March 2016
10
The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest bus load of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy
turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him
is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing
seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for
murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details
involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality;
all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who
is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes
up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his
term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been
rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out
of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that
he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills
himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on
the outside.Red's narration of the story allows him to speak for all of the
prisoners, who sense a fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives
the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is
not violent, just formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob
Gunton), he is both a challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about
bookkeeping and tax preparation, and before long he's been moved out of
his prison job in the library and assigned to the warden's office,
where he sits behind an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's
ill-gotten gains. His fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes
and pension plans for most of the officials of the local prison system.There are key moments in the film, as when Andy uses his clout to get
some cold beers for his friends who are working on a roofing job. Or
when he befriends the old prison librarian (James Whitmore). Or when he
oversteps his boundaries and is thrown into solitary confinement. What
quietly amazes everyone in the prison -- and us, too -- is the way he
accepts the good and the bad as all part of some larger pattern than
only he can fully see.The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison
drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence,
riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason.
The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption, by Stephen King, which is quite unlike most of King's work.
The horror here is not of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that
flows from the realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have
unreeled in the same unchanging daily prison routine.The director, Frank Darabont, paints the prison in drab grays and
shadows, so that when key events do occur, they seem to have a life of
their own.Andy, as played by Robbins, keeps his thoughts to himself. Red, as
Freeman plays him, is therefore a crucial element in the story: His
close observation of this man, down through the years, provides the way
we monitor changes and track the measure of his influence on those
around him. And all the time there is something else happening, hidden
and secret, which is revealed only at the end."The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may
have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it,
and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There
is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But
mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal
worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a
sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption.

******
6 March 2016
10
This film deserves to be number 1 on IMDb! I simply love it. Morgan
Freeman is a god. Tim Robbins fulfils his role so good! I recommend it
to every people out there. It would be a pity to miss it... Stephen
King is a pure genius. S. King is known for his horror genre, but this
shows that he's a smart versatile one who can do other movie genre so
well. Enjoy Shawshank Redemption, it's worth fully! I was a little kid
when I first saw this film and I didn't understand all of it. Now, I
can watch it over and over again and always find something new and mind
blowing. I recommend seeing the movie at least 2-3 times, you won't
regret it. All the best!

******
5 March 2016
10
The Shawshank Redemption is undoubtedly deserves to be the highest
rated movie. I watched this movie for the umpteenth time. A movie I
would never ever get bored of. Written & directed by Frank Darabont,
this prison drama is a simple but profoundly moving tale of hope,
friendship & redemption. Cinematography exquisitely captures the
monotonous daily life inside prison. The bond that grows between the
two main characters is unforgettable and the score is the best I have
heard. Morgan Freeman makes us feel the sadness and Tim Robbins, the
faith. The more times you watch it, the more you love it, and the more
you learn from it Whatever you do, don't listen to the people who say
this movie is overrated because this is one of the most inspiring and
greatest movies ever. It has everything you could possibly want in a
movie. If you don't love Shawshank, chances are you are beyond
redemption. It is hard to find a more proper word for the film than a
masterpiece. It's in my top five movies of all time. I feel so bad
about not writing a review of this masterpiece during the late
nineties.

******
4 March 2016
10
A solid script that moves with sufficient pace to maintain engagement
yet lingers on details without losing interest. This film uses
narration in a way that almost becomes peripheral - you are focused on
the drama yet the voice-over adds depth and explanation without
distraction. An ultimately feel-good film that takes you though a gut-
wrenching narrative. One of the few films that contains unwholesome
language and content in a manner that seems 'natural' and not simply
for effect (Billy Elliot is a classic example of such a film). No
matter your favourite genre, if you haven't seen this then put aside
any preconceptions and be prepared for thorough entertainment.

******
3 March 2016
10
The movie is one of the best ever. Morgan Freeman is in one of his best
roles and Tim Robbins also. When you see it for the first time you do
not expect the ending. I have seen it many times and it does not
disappoint me each time. This movie is in range of The Game or or
Ethernal sunshine of the spotless mind and a few more, that you do not
now the outcome in advance. Most of the movies - 99,5 % of them, you
know at the beginning who is the ''bad guy'' who will ''win'' at the
end... But you see this movies and in a couple of days you do not
remember half of the movie and you forget all about it in a month or
so... But there are rare movies that you see and this is one of them,
that is ''with you'' for ever.

******
1 March 2016
10
This film describes prison life in Shawshank prison, but not as we are
used to this. So not a prison yard with rival gangs where they should
be. as cool as possible the describes precisely the deep friendship
that can arise. In this case, the friendship between an elderly black
man who for 20 years has down and a young, intelligent and quiet man
who just unfairly life is serving. This young man, Andy Dufresne, from
throughout Another type of wood cut from the rest. He founded a
library, carves chess and teaches at the less gifted prisoners. I think
it's a beautiful film: Quiet and solid shot. emotional moments and
finally have a good feel-good movie.I also find it very beautiful as they describe how the prison Initially
a hell. But that at the end of time habituation occurs. After some more
time, one will be dependent on the walls and does one properly warn the
outside world.

******
1 March 2016
10
Este UN film forte bun, in Cinda aptly ca a Prut ACM 40 + DE Ania,
Ester UN film cu note forte Mari PE ac est site. Imi place total la ac
est film, chair Dacia in an ii ace cultivate era DE PE Alta planet, tot
SE Verde distal DE OK, DE acer are Si o performance Si UN success
suavest in CA cue priciest standardly snare . Imi place formula asst Si
chair Frau sea SE fact cu pimply o Alta series , o Alta Francine DE
Godfather sentry a ambulated Carlotta Si tot Cele necessary.
Bineinteles cu aces poverty , cu Ascella's fir narrative, Dora ca tribe
implicate Altai factory Si alter effect sentry a ambulated formula, cu
alter scene. Totusi , AR fie interest, Asa ca Va tog sea Va gander la
asst.

******
29 February 2016
10
King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the
Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his
best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was
brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned
Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes
onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to
understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully. What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it
conveys. It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim
Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he
never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man
again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane,
but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a
different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and
I don't know if there will again.

******
29 February 2016
10
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
27 February 2016
10
This review will be on the movie The Shawshank RedemptionBackground information:Genres: Drama, and Crime Fiction.Directed by Frank DarabontAcademy Awards: One of the Best movies of all time nominated for Oscars
but never wonMain Cast: Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Bob Gunton, James Whitmore, and
Clancy BrownReleased: 1994Plot: Andy Dufresne is an innocent man sentenced to two consecutive
life terms in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover. While
in prison he forms a friendship with Red, experiences brutality of
prison life, all in 19 years.Acting 9/10: Everyone did well acting but Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman really carried the movie. I especially enjoyed the narration in
this movie by Morgan Freeman. Tim Robbins probably had a better
performance in this movie over any other movie he has been in. I did
really enjoy the chemistry between Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins.
Especially the "Get busy living or get busy dying" scene.Overall Rating: 10/10Would I recommend it? It has a very well written ending if you do enjoy
plot twists. Without a doubt watch it you won't regret it. It is after
all in the discussion for greatest movie of all time.

******
27 February 2016
8
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.I have never seen such an
amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank
encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so
great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even
though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are
quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the
characters are going through.

******
26 February 2016
8
The movie ,though good,is relatively slow and simple than a movie
should be of such a high rating.The major criteria of its high rating
is its simplicity and the presentation of prison life in the movie
which is actually quite convincing.Also the movie is quite emotional
that makes you feel cry at some moments.The plot of the movie is simple
and short enough.The director focuses much more on filming prison life
than completing the plot which is quite good from critics point of
view.We find this attitude among directors in very few movies
nowadays.Freeman, as usual,out shows his impressive acting skills which
adds a great flavor to its originality.But if you like
action,drama,thriller movie this might not be able to cater your
demands.Instead if you like to have a good time watching some fine
stuff in terms of originality its a must watch.

******
23 February 2016
10
While my utmost respect is given to all the current box-office hits my
loyalty truly lies before my time. In 1994 Frank Darabont brought to
life Stephen Kings genius story line and gave us the best film created
to date. Shawshank Repdeption tells us the story of Andy Dufrene (Tom
Robbins) who is sentenced to life in prison for two murders that he did
not commit. For 19 years Andy learns how to live in the harsh
conditions of Shawshank prison and even attracts the attention of many
fellow inmates, a soon to be dear friend, Red (Morgan Freeman), and the
warden who eventually entrusts Andy to assist him in his legal work. While the roll of Andy was originally turned by many big wigs including
Tom Hanks and Brad Pitt because of other movie conflictions the
universe eventually did Darabont a favor by landing Tom Robbins in the
role. Robbins plays the seemly quiet, unforeseen mastermind of Andy
Dufrene brilliantly. His lack of and delicately placed facial
variations toys with the audience's emotions and somehow brings you to
love the strange, shy convict. Perhaps the key element to Toms
performance was not his own actions but reactions to the people around
him. As a man of little words Robbins used his silence and expressions
to rule his performance in a rare and powerful way.No surprise is the also incredible performance of Morgan Freeman who
plays Red, Andy's best friend in the prison, and also the films
narrator. Red had been at Shawshank long before Andy arrived and tells
his story to us, the audience, after his dear friend, Andy, is gone.
Before Andy came into the picture Red had already taken on the role of
a low-profile leadership role in the prison and its obvious he is
comfortable behind the walls of Shawshank. However, Andy didn't come
alone, he brought with a sense a hope that we see spread within the
inmates in particularly, Red. Morgan perfectly embodies his new sense
of hope so the audience can watch it unfold in him. Even in a prison
uniform he still steals the hearts of the audience members and has us
all routing for him in his journey of looking at his life in a new way.
Freeman also nails his performance as films narrator. He specking with
that sense of hope Andy clearly left him with, but also somehow makes
us miss Andy, the way you can sense that he does. Using his calm yet
inspiring voice Red highlights the overall message and leaves the
audience feeling ready to take on the world. The actor's incredible performances make this film what is it, but I
would argue more than that, is the plot. Originally a Stephen King
novel shawshank is undoubtabley the best written screenplay to date.
Every intricate detail from prop placement to little character lines
comes together in the end and forms a story like we have never seen
before. The complexity is at the perfect balance where you aren't lost
but you are always curious. Shawshank is a movie that you have to watch
through and be constantly involved but naturally you are so intrigued
that it is not hard to do. Shawshank Redemption is packed full of brilliant characters and well
thought out moments. However, in making the wise decision to watch this
film you are getting so much more than the entertainment of a
incredible film. Frank Darabont uses Morgan Freemans ending monologue
to leave you pondering life in a new way and eager to live out the
famous words of Andy Dufrese, "Get busy living, or get busy dying."

******
23 February 2016
9
ndy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive life terms
in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is sentenced to
a tough prison. However, only Andy knows he didn't commit the
crimes.ndy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive life
terms in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is
sentenced to a tough prison. However, only Andy knows he didn't commit
the crimes.ndy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive
life terms in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is
sentenced to a tough prison. However, only Andy knows he didn't commit
the crimes.ndy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive
life terms in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is
sentenced to a tough prison. However, only Andy knows he didn't commit
the crimes.ndy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive
life terms in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is
sentenced to a tough prison. However, only Andy knows he didn't commit
the crimes.

******
22 February 2016
10
It is the best movie i have ever seen.Watched it 5 years back and was
mesmerized. Just can't stop myself watching it again and again whenever
it airs on TV or get a chance to recommend it to someone. Usually i
don't like the movies based on this theme. i just watched it as it
appeared on the top and believe me it blew my mind as i finished
watching it. The storytelling, screenplay, direction everything is just
awesome and cannot be better. I have seen most of the IMDb's top
movies. some remain on top some loose, but this one can't be dethroned.
As I am watching this for 10th time(which i usually don't do, and
neither do I write reviews :)), it came in my mind to give this
masterpiece a tribute by posting the review. If you haven't seen it, go
watch it as soon as possible. you will remember the masterpiece for
years.

******
20 February 2016
9
Stephen King Crime, DramaRated R142 minutes| Roger Ebert September 23, 1994 | Print Page"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty
-- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the
subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving
life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off
despair.WATCH NOWThe story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest of prisoners unload, and
they make bets on who will cry during their first night in prison, and
who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy Dufresne (Tim
Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy
turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him
is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing
seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for
murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details
involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality;
all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who
is not -- and the measured passage of time.

******
19 February 2016
10
Every so often, a certain type of movie comes along that deeply moves
anyone who watches it. This movie is grand in scope and scale, its
character portrayals so moving and so real, that you cannot help
becoming completely engrossed by it. I believe that the Shawshank
Redemption is one of these movies. Often times, movies based on books
are sub par, with the common complaint being, "The book is better."
Well I, for one, have read the book and watched the movie, and I assure
you that the movie is not a let down at all, but rather a triumph of
modern cinema. The Shawshank Redemption saw career-defining
performances from many of its cast members,including Tim Robbins, who
became a top star after his incredible performance, and Morgan Freeman,
who added to his already impressive list of accolades with his perfect
supporting role. Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a Maine banker who is
unjustly convicted of killing his wife and her lover after he discovers
that she is having an affair. Andy is a true outsider in the bleak
world of Shawshank prison, an educated man not used to violence and
despair that are an everyday part of prison life.

******
19 February 2016
10
This movie gets you out of any bad mood to a state of serenity, Every
conversation got deep meanings inside of it. The Shawshank redemption was made to inspire all of us to never ever
give up. The cast just fit right in their roles their voices move the
right feelings in the right time. Tim Robbins gave his best performance
of all time the way he talks and walks reflects his calm personality in
the movie with a smile always on his face. Morgan freeman was great as
usual specially as a narrator. excellent performance and great story sets an example of friendship and
hope. A must see for everyone.

******
18 February 2016
10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
15 February 2016
9
growing up, I never really watched TV. I always loved to act, but never
had enough patience to sit down and watch a full film. Back in high
school my best friend was a movie junkie and he told me that I had to
sit down and watch this film with him, and if I didn't like he would
never annoy me to watch films with him ever again.This movie changed my life. The acting and dialog is brilliant and it
inspired me at a young age to pursue film acting rather than stage.My career would of never developed if it wasn't for this film. I have
now gone on to watch several brilliant films, and Shawshank Redemption
will forever be in my top 5.

******
14 February 2016
9
The development of the characters and story line are so intricately
designed that you forget the this could be considered a "period" piece
of sorts. The movie goer that likes authenticity along with the depth
of drama ,will be pleased. The setting and cinematography for the time
is on point and accurate. The relationships between the characters grow
and have resolutions . Engaging the watcher to be inspired. Also, the
carriage of the film over time lets you have an intimate experience
with each character. The film score has a diversity of music genres and
that will please many a generation, many a life lesson is conveyed thru
the use of a stellar actor portraying the character flawlessly.

******
14 February 2016
8
Nobody can deny that The Shawshank Redemption is a good, maybe even
great movie. But I think it's overrated. I understand it might touch
many peoples feelings, but the movie feels like it is just too clearly
designed to evoke those feelings. It is a movie that takes ones hand
and tells the viewer a clearly defined, well structured story that
follows all the standard story beats one would expect from a prison
drama. The fact that this movie has gotten so much praise just goes to
show that Hollywood got all the rules of filmmaking figured out. This
movie followed those rules to the letter and got tremendous success
because of that. In short, the movie succeeds in what it aimed to do.
Evoke symphaty where symphaty's due and evoke anger where anger is due.
It helps that its very well made and edited. My gripe with this film is that it didn't do anything new. There is no
message left open for interpretation, there is no real meaning behind
the cinematography and the music and voice over are quite generic (I
love Freeman's voice but it's overdone in this film). When I watch a
film I want the story to be shown, not told.

******
14 February 2016
10
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story
about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than
a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk
about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom.
Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and
Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other.
Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment
they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful
performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.He shines when it is his time to go back into the world, only to find
that the world grew up so fast he never even got a chance to blink.
Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and
excitement. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking
about in 50 or 100 years.

******
13 February 2016
10
Best film ever made.The movie was gripping from start to finish. Morgan
Freeman, was outstanding of his character right through the whole
movie. Morgan Freeman, also mad a remarkable statement when he left
jail and met up with his friend to be together in freedom. Tim Robbins,
was outstanding of his in depth be trail of a innocent man, right
throughout another movie.Tim Robbins, his role as setting up the
library and doing the guards income taxes then helping a young prisoner
do to his exam for school was a wonderful concept for the jail. Bob
Gunton, did a fine job as a warden of the prison and the system he
portrait him self in.James whit-more, was tremendous in his role of
being inside for so long and when released couldn't cope on the
outside.

******
13 February 2016
9
Intense, exciting, it squeezes the heart and mind is forced to think .
After seeing this film, I have decided to make films . I'm an actor and
screenwriter thanks to the emotions that gave me . And ' an intense
script that runs in this film . Technically I can say I have seen some
very important and profound interpretations of the two main characters
. And ' a film about freedom, but a sought freedom outside the box.
Patience and self-awareness leading to liberation. It is inside of all
the power of the cinema, a cinema that should make us reflect
objectively , a cinema that is becoming all too often trivial. Follow
in the footsteps of this film will be very important in the near future
.

******
13 February 2016
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a timeless classic that will send the
viewer through multiple emotions with its multi-layered fascinating
plot. I often get asked by those who haven't seen the film: "what's it
about?", but I never know how to answer that question. The truth is
that I don't feel that I can briefly summarise such a stunning
beautiful film whilst doing it full justice. All I can say is that I
can guarantee that if you don't love it, that you will at least very
much like it. It's no fluke that this film stands at #1 in the IMDb top
250.Despite deservedly winning a mere 14 awards, unfortunately this will
always be one of the best films in history to have not won an Oscar,
but don't let that affect your opinion.

******
13 February 2016
10
There are standard ways to stage a prison film and standard ways to
tell a story by Stephen King. But "The Shawshank Redemption," based on
a King novella and set in the correctional institution of the title,
succeeds in avoiding the familiar.Without a single riot scene or horrific effect, it tells a slow, gentle
story of camaraderie and growth, with an ending that abruptly finds
poetic justice in what has come before. The writer and director, Frank
Darabont, tells this tale with a surprising degree of loving care.There are times when "The Shawshank Redemption" comes dangerously close
to sounding one of those "triumph of the human spirit" notes. But most
of it is eloquently restrained. Despite an excess of voice-over
narration and inspirational music, Mr. Darabont's film has a genuine
dignity that holds the interest. It is helped greatly by fine,
circumspect performances from Morgan Freeman as a rueful lifer named
Red and Tim Robbins as Andy, the new kid on the cellblock. The film
spans nearly 20 years of friendship between these two.When Andy is convicted of his wife's murder, the judge pronounces him
"a particularly remorseless and icy man." He sustains that chill when
he first arrives at Shawshank, remaining aloof from other inmates even
when those inmates threaten him with physical harm. "I wish I could
tell you that Andy fought the good fight," says Red, who knows Andy has
been gang-raped by fellow prisoners, in one of the film's only
halfway-brutal episodes. "I wish I could tell you that, but prison is
no fairy-tale world." Needless to say, the heroes of such stories
usually do succeed in defending themselves, at least when Hollywood is
telling the fairy tale. But "The Shawshank Redemption" has its own
brand of iconoclasm, with Mr. Darabont's direction as quiet, purposeful
and secretive as Andy is himself.Eventually Andy begins to fit in, especially after he wows the guards
with skills left over from his pre-prison banking career. From the
first time he advises one guard to make a one-time-only tax-free gift
to his wife, Andy gets a new lease on life as "a convicted murderer who
provides sound financial planning." Andy does special fiscal favors for
the warden. ("You know, the funny thing is, on the outside I was an
honest man, straight as an arrow," he says about this. "I had to come
to prison to be a crook.") He also makes the occasional dramatic
gesture, like commandeering the prison's loudspeaker and playing a
Mozart aria for all his fellow inmates. The film has a tendency to wax
romantic at such moments, but more often it sustains an intelligent
reserve.Mr. Freeman is so quietly impressive here that there's reason to wish
Red's role had more range. As written, he spends his time observing
Andy fondly and describing prison life. But Mr. Freeman's commanding
presence makes him a much stronger figure than that. Mr. Freeman is
especially moving when he suggests how dependent Red has become on the
prison walls that give shape to his life. Even so, Red has kept his
ruefulness. "Only guilty man in Shawshank," he jokes about himself.Mr. Robbins has the trickier role of someone whose still waters run
deep, but whose experience doesn't add up until an exposition-packed
denouement. (The film's swift, enjoyably far-fetched closing scenes are
a sharp reminder of who is the author of this story, after all.) Andy's
is the more subdued role, but Mr. Robbins plays it intensely, and he
ages effectively from newcomer to father figure during the story. One
of Andy's projects is improving the prison library, which once
contained nothing but the equivalent of books by Stephen King.To raise funds for this undertaking, Andy is steady and patient,
writing weekly letters to state officials until he gets what he wants.
Mr. Darabont, a screenwriter making an impressive directorial debut,
works in much the same quietly persistent way. "The Shawshank
Conspiracy" takes shape slowly and carefully, displaying an overall
subtlety that's surprising in a movie of this genre. In the end, like
Andy and Red, it gets to where it wanted to go."The Shawshank Redemption" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying
parent or adult guardian). It includes profanity and occasional
violence, including a scene that discreetly suggests homosexual rape.THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION Written and directed by Frank Darabont, based
on the novella "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption," by Stephen
King; director of photography, Roger Deakins; edited by Richard
Francis-Bruce; music by Tom Newman; production designer, Terence Marsh;
produced by Niki Marvin; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time:
142 minutes. This film is rated R. WITH: Morgan Freeman (Red), Tim
Robbins (Andy), Gil Bellows (Tommy), Clancy Brown (Captain Hadley), Bob
Gunton (Warden Norton), Mark Rolston (Bogs Diamond), William Sadler
(Heywood) and James Whitmore (Brooks Hatlen).

******
13 February 2016
10
The Shawshank Redemption is for me one of the best movies ever made.
The acting is crisp and full of endless tension, sometimes forlorn and
on other occasions full of fear. How Stephen King could come up with a
horror story like this is beyond me. It's a real nightmare to be in a
penal system with so many things going against you. Stephen King has been known for writing stories that have both confused
and amused the readers. You should really just rent the movie, sit
down, and enjoy this 2 hour long movie.In the end, though, while the film is indeed admirable from a technical
standpoint, it is the emotional impact that has made it a favourite of
so many. Naturally, emotional responses will vary from person to person
but this film seems to hit the mark more than any other. Do yourself a
favour and check it out.

******
13 February 2016
5
Overrated. Whiny. 8 million better movies. Stop being sheep. Tim
Robbins is a hack. Morgan Freeman is a c4tface. Guy goes to prison, Guy
escapes prison. Somehow tunnels through concrete and s**t without
anyone noticing. Guy leaves some s**t hidden for other Guy still in
prison. Other Guy gets s**t. Some stuff happens in prison between those
events. One dude is all emotional and stuff in a rainy scene. uhh what
else.. Not much else. Morgan Freeman's character had a hardon for Tim
Robbins. I dunno what do you want. This move was lame. Very long too.
Could've been 30 minutes tops and still got its "point" across. Frank
Darabont sucks. The walking dead sucks. The end.

******
11 February 2016
9
Why do I want to write another comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
11 February 2016
10
This movies is beautiful and the best movie ever it is not a movie with
high rated is the best because the events in the movie are wonderful
and not expected. I think the person who didn't watch this film he
didn't watch movies. I don't think that the film is overrated like same
people said I think ever one in the world must watch this movie. I
don't know why the movie didn't win Oscar he is the best movie ever. In
the top 250 movies there are a lots of movies you can find but this
movie you will never find in this moment I don't know if there will be
a movie high rated or much beautiful like it watch this movie and you
will never forget this movie ever

******
11 February 2016
9
Twenty years ago, the movie is already, but there will always be the
best movie list to see it, a good thing 1994 film year, several sets of
charts in 1994 were released within twenty. Today's movie will put a
lot of resources on the sidelines to computer graphics, the importance
of fever script, CHANKAI that there is good cause to content, reading
aftertaste, again aftertaste. But also want to see the impulse.Shawshank Redemption in prison as the backdrop, the time set in the
1940s, (the actor from jail walls, affixed posters to find he
experienced a year) are easy to understand all the dialogue, especially
prisoners in prison mood to write very carefully , whether entering the
prison on the first day, the first decade, go to the fourth decade,
even after leaving prison, has been unable to meet the huge social
change, so that the audience can feel it.When this film's most special places, is the use of a large part of the
plot to hide the actor Tim Robbins ingenious escape plan! Sheet until
the end of the dismantling of truth, can not help but admire, author
Stephen King novel layout!Cinematograph James Whitmore (old librarian), live in the prison four
years, regardless of the mental body, has been completely dependent on
it, so once they are released on parole, as suited to the changes in
society, they had embarked commit suicide a way, when you see cause for
regret, but it turned out to be an episode of actor Tim Robbins Morgan
Freeman worry about life after his release, and after a series of
actions, and buried a volt line.Shawshank Redemption was released during the hit "Forrest Gump" Forrest
Gump then swept the box office and awards, stole the show, Shawshank
Redemption has not been much attention. But after the release of the
disc, more and more people discuss the film and accumulate excellent
reviews, so far is 100 IMDb users voted the best film of the first,
CHANKAI think the first is not necessarily the best but at least for a
class aimed at fans preferences, remember Forrest Gump in electrical
propaganda, with particular emphasis on the effect of her computer,
table tennis scene, also put quite a few historical figures pulled into
the cinema, which was great selling point. When comparing the two,
Shawshank Redemption with a plain expression, not exaggerated special
effects, but the theme is always the prison audience empathy is not so
heavy, and "Forrest Gump" is told from the child's growth from stumble
. In the award-winning Hollywood blockbuster with no conditions
Shawshank Redemption in 1994, we did not get a lot of people's
attention.Shawshank Redemption Frank Darabont is the director's work, I have seen
there, "the Green Mile," "the Mist", is well worth watching movies.CHANKAI 2016Feb

******
10 February 2016
10
If there ever has been a list of movie that you can watch for unlimited
number of times.... and have the same level of enjoyment and thrill,
this movie easily will top that list.The classic story plot revolving around a jail inmate who probably
didn't commit the crime and various stages of emotional levels that a
person experiences while in jail. The best thing about this movie is the calm posture of the main lead
under all circumstances. He has done proper justice to his character
and has delivered an excellent performance. Morgan freeman on the other
hand have supported the main lead up to the fullest. His face
expressions were so real that as if he is actually there. The other
cast has also done justice to their characters. The music in the entire movie is so smooth that you won't even notice
it. But the best thing in the whole package it the script. I wonder
which script will surpass the excellence of shawshank redemption. On the whole, the best movie that you will ever watch (till to date) .
I recommend movie viewers to keep a copy of this in their library and
whenever you feel low or need motivation, turn this movie on yo squeeze
the lemons of life.

******
10 February 2016
9
Watched it 20 years later the release of the flick. And I must say, its
among the best Inspirational, Motivational and Uplifting movie I have
ever experienced. Was unsure as to why it holds the number one spot in
IMDb's title, but now all doubts cleared. People lacking HOPE,
Motivation, Self Confidence should see this. It portrays in a good
manner as to how a person overcomes Fear in regard of Hope. Go for it
blindly and you'll never be disappointed. A man who's being framed
wrongly for a crime not committed by him goes to jail. Finds some
friends, some allies and some woes. But in the end the route of escape,
the hope for a better tomorrow, the will for survival of a man
continues. And he continues his fight silently for more than 20 years
in silence. Watches all the seasons and festivities and days pass by.
Thus, it inspired me a lot on a whole new scale. Even the performance
of Morgan Freeman excels, so does he in every movie as usual. The
Shawshank Redemption.

******
9 February 2016
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" starts off with the familiar brutality of a
prison movie. Convicted in the late 1940s for the murder of his wife
and her lover, banker Tim Robbins is thrown into the slammer (the
Shawshank penitentiary in Maine) for two consecutive life sentences.Seasoned inmate Morgan Freemanthe narrator in this storywatches as
the soft-spoken, vulnerable prisoner undergoes the inevitable gang
rape. Prison, Freeman tells the audience in that inimitably
authoritative voice, "is no fairy tale world."In this case, he's dead wrong. " Shawshank, " based on Stephen King's
novella "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption," is a complete fairy
tale, a sentimental yarn full of the darndest twists and turns since
Frank Capra rolled his cameras. Cinematographer Roger Deakins's images
are burnished with that "long time ago" golden glow, the inmates
areultimatelya bunch of cute pushovers, and the worst thing about
prison (give or take an initiation rape or three) is the boredom."In prison," intones Freeman, "a man will do anything to keep his mind
occupied." What Robbins, who has proclaimed his innocence all along,
does to keep his mind occupied is the punch line of the story.The institution is run by warden Bob Gunton, a clichéd sociopathic
despot who likes beating prisoners to death (to make a point) but will
not abide religious blasphemy. Gunton is enthusiastically supported by
sadistic guard Clancy Brown, who enjoys a regular round of assault and
battery himself.But it's clear from the start that Robbins, despite the hardships, is
emotionally protected by his own innocence. He charms everyone and,
eventually, parlays his business skills into a useful commodity. By the
end, these grim authoritarians and jailbirds are eating out of his
hand. In fact, Robbins's effect on everyone is so cheesily messianic,
they should have called this "Forrest Gump Goes to Jail."Speaking of jail, "Shawshank"-the-movie seems to last about half a life
sentence. The story, chiefly about the 20-year friendship between
Freeman and Robbins, becomes incarcerated in its own labyrinthine
sentimentality. It wanders down subplots at every opportunity and
ignores an abundance of narrative exit points before settling on the
aforementioned finale. And leave it to pandering, first-time director
Frank Darabont to ensure no audience member leaves this film unsure of
the ending. Heaven forbid a movie should end with a smidgen of mystery!Still, although "Shawshank" gradually deteriorates (or, if you're a
sentimentalist, gets better and better), there are things to be
enjoyed. The principal performances are the most obvious pleasures.
Robbins with those bulging baby blues and that voluptuous baby
mouthexudes the perfect kind of innocence to sell this tall tale.As for Freeman, he's a master of comedic and poignant cadence. He could
read the local real estate listings and make you weepor laugh. "These
walls are funny," he intones. "First you hate them. Then you get used
to them. After time passes, you get so's you depend on them." From
Freeman, these words read like existential thunder.When Robbins, upon making Freeman's acquaintance, asserts that he's
innocent of the double murder, Freeman smirks. "You're going to fit
right in," he tells Robbins. "You know that everybody in here's
innocent?"

******
9 February 2016
10
One of the best movies that I have ever enjoyed. Fantastic Great work,
I have been mesmerized to watch it. Francisco Goya's work takes the
genre of portraiture to new heights and his genius is reappraised in a
landmark exhibition at The National Gallery in London. One of the best
movies that I have ever enjoyed. Fantastic Great work, I have been
mesmerized to watch it. Francisco Goya's work takes the genre of
portraiture to new heights and his genius is reappraised in a landmark
exhibition at The National Gallery in London. One of the best movies
that I have ever enjoyed. Fantastic Great work, I have been mesmerized
to watch it. Francisco Goya's work takes the genre of portraiture to
new heights and his genius is reappraised in a landmark exhibition at
The National Gallery in London. One of the best movies that I have ever
enjoyed. Fantastic Great work, I have been mesmerized to watch it.
Francisco Goya's work takes the genre of portraiture to new heights and
his genius is reappraised in a landmark exhibition at The National
Gallery in London.

******
8 February 2016
10
The story-line was well thought out and had great flow. Morgan Freeman
was top notch, as always. A suspenseful thriller with plot twists that
will keep you guessing all movie long. Lighting was good. Composition
of shots were well put together. Character dialog was appropriate for
all scenes. Supporting actors fit their roles well. Do not miss out on
this one. Classic film. Must see. Tim Robbins plays a great co-star
role. Morgan and Tim work well with one another. Director Frank
Darabont did a great job. Stephen King, as always, wrote a script that
will make any avid movie watcher want to continue watching his films.
WOW!

******
7 February 2016
10
This movie is in so much depth.this is the best and will be the best
movie of all time.The direction , the acting and the way music was
played and how slowly the suspense was build throws light upon why this
is ranked 1 in IMDb list.Remember, Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the
best of things. And no good thing ever dies. I will be hoping that this
letter finds you, and finds you well.Get busy living, or get busy
dying.These quotes are so damn good.Andy: Here's where it makes the
most sense. You need it so you don't forget. Forget that there are
places in the world that aren't made out of stone. That there's a 
there's a  there's something inside that's yours, that they can't
touch.

******
6 February 2016
10
I think Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest movies that were
ever made. It has a very catchy story. I have never seen Morgan Freeman
young until now. Well, he's not literally young, but, you know what I
mean, younger than he is now :D The actors played very well in this
movie and it has a great plot. Even though the film is made in 1994, it
is still one of the greatest movies, like Godfather which I think it's
the greatest film ever, although it is made in 1972 (the first part) I
strongly recommend it for whoever didn't watch it yet. You won't lose
your time, as I said it really is a great movie and it will bring you a
smile on your face.

******
6 February 2016
9
This movie's a masterpiece that captures the drama of enduring
friendship and resiliency of the human spirit more powerfully than any
other film ever made. Even those who normally do not watch movies with
a critical eye will find themselves so drawn into this experience. I
really can't say enough about this film. This movie's really awesome...I find it difficult to find another movie I would recommend more highly
than The Shawshank Redemption. Without any high-adrenaline action
sequences or steamy sex scenes this film somehow has the power to make you sit through all 142 minutes
without for a moment getting bored.

******
6 February 2016
10
if you haven't seen this already...go right now and watch it and this
is as desperate and imp as Gandalf put it best" Run you fools". This
movie is truly enjoyed when you absolutely have no idea of the plot and
I know then why would one watch it but this is just like with its
continuously changing plots.. I loved it and it definitely gives you
that kick when you are feeling low in life...Wow I truly loved it and I
watched this with my best friends. Needless to say, the heroes of such
stories usually do succeed in defending themselves, at least when
Hollywood is telling the fairy tale. But "The Shawshank Redemption" has
its own brand of iconoclasm, with Mr. Darabont's direction as quiet,
purposeful and secretive as Andy is himself.

******
5 February 2016
10
Being born in 1995 i feel a bit skeptical before watching movies that
were made even before i was born but thank god i watched this piece of
art. In my opinion this movie is a must watch for everyone regardless
of the gender , age or even taste. In my opinion this is one of the
best if not the best movie ever made by Morgan Freeman. His performance
along side with Tim Robbins its just perfect. The script is very well
written and the main characters are Red and Andy background story is
couldn't be more different but at the same time couldn't be more
interesting. This movie currently ranks number 2 in my top favorites of
all time.

******
4 February 2016
9
I think the reason this film stands out a classic is because it has so
much heart. I've always thought the story is what makes a great movie,
and this one had a brilliant one, based on the short "Rita Hayworth and
the Shawshank Redemption" by Stephen King. The screenplay adaptation of
this short novel elevates the dialog and the moving performances of Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman into a masterpiece. The plot twists and
turns in directions that defy the best of imaginations...ones that only
Stephen King could write. I am truly humbled by the writing. But as a
film it is more than that. It's over-riding theme of "hope" transcends
the message over the walls of Shawshank to the green grass, and the
beaches of Zihuatanejo.

******
4 February 2016
10
I was very frustrated of my life when I saw the movie. And after
completing it, I found a new me in myself. In every moment of these
movie I was thinking how would it finish. And it was so unexpected when
I saw the escape of hero. This is not only a movie but also a lesson of
inspiration, motivation & confidence. Really we shouldn't give up
anything we started.There may be hardship, hassles & for these reasons if we leave our work
then we've to stay frustrated for whole life. And if you try hard then
it may take time but certainly light will illuminate the darkness of
every disappointment of your life. This movie just taught me this.Besides, as usual morgan freeman was awesome & I must say his quotes
from background that made the movie more enjoyable. Thanks to the
script writer, director, actors & every man who are involved in making
this awesome movie.

******
4 February 2016
10
Few things you certainly know about 'The Shawshank Redemption': it was
nominated for 7 Oscars, yet failed to win any, it failed at the box
office and it is probably the best movie ever made.I felt mesmerized watching this movie, and I believe everyone who has
watched it must have felt the same. A perfect adaptation of Stephen
King's novel 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption', this movie stays
faithful to the plot of the novella with very minor alterations. Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins have given stellar performances. Freeman's
eloquent narration throughout the film provides the description of the
events happening over the prison and his friendship with Andy Dufresne
over a number of years from his character's perspective. The main themes of the movie, hope, self-worth, integrity and
friendship are beautifully interlocked with the prison-drama. The
climate of Shawshank State Penitentiary is painted gray and dull to
amplify the intensity of every event. The depiction of
institutionalized life and emotions of the prisoners, who aren't only
trapped inside Shawshank physically but psychologically as well, are
very precise. The character of Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins,
displays extraordinary courage and self-worth in the hopeless walls of
Shawshank prison. The climax is intricately woven with poetic justice. This film is Frank Darabont's Magnum Opus. A well deserved #1 on IMDb's
Top 250.

******
4 February 2016
10
"Sometimes I feel sad that Andy is gone. I have to me remember that
some birds are not born to cage. its feathers others shine. And when
they run away, the part of you that I knew arrest them is a sin, is
happy. Yet the place where we live It is more empty and lifeless
without them. I think I miss my friend"I'm still wondering how it took me so long to watch this ingenious
piece, but okay. Starting with the life lesson about "Freedom" that was
passed:In the film we have so much to learn about it, we can see that when our
freedom is cut unjustly we do not know what to do and everything points
in just lowered his head and move on. But no was what Andy did, he had
hope but also worked hard to (say around 20 years digging a tunnel? My
God, there is perseverance). All this with patience and wisdom (The guy
is f ******) And even with all the difficulties, even with all the
obstacles of the Director of guards of the rows, and still getting two
months in solitary confinement, the guy does not give up.What about hope: Even though every reason in the world to give up, he
He did not give up, even when Red said "Hope can leave a madman "and he
replies:" Hope is a good thing, maybe the Best of all, and nothing that
is good must die "And even there that hole, he made a difference with
their peaceful way, intelligent and both strong and then continued on.On how not learn is in the society:What happened is that the guys were both arrested time already had
become accustomed to that reality, for them, it was to be free be
trapped inside, the concept of freedom for them changed fully as they
surrendered to it and had their freedoms cut, no longer knew what it
used to be free and to enjoy to life again. We can see the example of
Brooks, there even being arrested, he felt free, he was someone there
and built his character there, but unfortunately ended up settling in a
lifetime caged and to be returned to their free life, I did not know
what to do and He ended up committing suicide. Fortunately it was not
what happened with Andy, he He insisted so. Red ended up bending a
little, but in the end with the help of his friend, entirely given your
life back.This film is a great lesson. It is something to be taken to heart and
take as an example for life. Everything about him, the construction of
the script, develop the story, the flawless performances, was something
millimeter worked, and think, worked very well. The characters are
extremely catchy, since its characteristics to his dialogs, which are
very rich, very intelligent and were used an excellent narrative. This
movie made me have a roller coaster of emotions, from ups and downs, to
laugh, to cry but also be moved. Anyway, all I can say is Andy and Red
did give me a wide grin that lasted one hour and after the movie and I
went to sleep happy. 5-star favorite, great masterpiece lives up to all
excellent reviews and the excellent grades he deserves.

******
4 February 2016
10
An ultimate master-piece. The best movie ever made. Period.There are movies, there are great movies and then at the end of the
tunnel, there is SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION. Initially, a failure at box
office but a winner of hearts and emotions forever. This movie changes
life, it helps people get eternal hope. The strength of the movie is
its connection with the audience. One can easily relate with a scene or
a character or a moment in this gem of a movie.Shawshank Redemption is a movie which strikes a chord with all its
viewers. Two words that define this movie are: Hope and Friendship. It
shows the ever-lasting bonding of 2 men and their journey together in
the confines of a prison. The simplicity of the movie is admirable. The
scenes are believable, the struggles are realistic and one gets
attached to the pain and sufferings of Andy Dufresne. All the
characters have done an incredible work. Tim Robbins (Andy) and Morgan
Freeman (Red) carry the movie and are outstanding to say the least.Whenever you feel sad or upset, whenever you need hope or whenever you
want some will to overcome the greatest obstacle, Shawshank Redemption
will uplift you in ways that just cannot be simply described in words.
It will touch your soul and leave you mesmerized, captivated and
wanting for more. You will definitely identify something very personal
in your own life.I personally use the quotes in this movie in my real life. They help me
whenever I feel depressed. 1.Fear can keep you prisoner, Hope can set
you free. 2.Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good
thing ever dies. 3.Get busy living, or get busy dying. 4.On the
outside, I was an honest man, straight as an arrow. I had to come to
prison to be a crook.It is my all-time favorite. I have watched it more than 30 times and
still the charm fails to fade away. Every time it leaves me spellbound
with its sheer brilliance. It gets better with every showing. The movie
connects with you, it moves you and most importantly, it gives you
HOPE!!!

******
31 January 2016
10
Coming from Sandusky, Ohio (about 35 minutes from Mansfield
Reformatory) myself; Shawshank Redemption was an instant classic. About
2 years after this acclaimed movie came out my family had an Exchange
student from Caracas, Venezuela named Christian and he loved this movie
so so much. We all watched this movie at least 222 times that year. It
is hard to believe that The Shawshank Redemption has been out 21 or
years and every time it is on TV all I can say in Morgan Freeman's
illustrious voice is Poor Andy Dufrane. Just starting out in show
business Shawshank Redemption is a great study piece in all aspects of
filmaking. Being this is my very first review, The Shawshank Redemption
is a powerful piece of Classic American Film. This historical piece
will forever live on in the Enteric plane. Thank you Mr Steven King for
allowing this fabulous writing to be turned into a Movie

******
31 January 2016
10
Shawnshank Redemption is one of the greatest films of all time. And
this is why.Tim Robbins a accountant who is wrongly convicted of murder and sent to
Shawshank prison where he friends up with Morgan Freeman and his gang.
The beautiful cinematography and dialogue make the film emotionally
moving and beautiful. Morgan Freeman narration is brilliant alongside
his chemistry with Robbins.This is a must see movie for any movie lover. With it being on most
streaming websites it's easily accessible to watch this classic.Follow me for more movie reviews soon.

******
31 January 2016
7
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story
about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than
a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk
about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom.
Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and
Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other.
Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment
they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful
performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.He shines when it is his time to go back into the world, only to find
that the world grew up so fast he never even got a chance to blink.
Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and
excitement. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking
about in 50 or 100 years.

******
30 January 2016
8
Now, I see what everybody was talking about. It took me 4 years to see
this, in my opinion, masterpiece. If you have not seen this movie rent
it anyway you can. The performances delivered by Robbins and Freeman
are, to me, the pinnacle of both their careers. This film cannot help
but evoke tactile imagery to the fullest capacity. You feel what the
main characters are going through the sensation is uncanny. Robbins
(Andy) and Freeman ("Red") are a balance of the human spirit. Andy is
your freedom-seeking hope side and "Red" is your rational, pessimistic
counterpart. Find your equilibrium in "The Shawshank Redemption." Now,
I see what everybody was talking about. It took me 4 years to see this,
in my opinion, masterpiece. If you have not seen this movie rent it
anyway you can. The performances delivered by Robbins and Freeman are,
to me, the pinnacle of both their careers. This film cannot help but
evoke tactile imagery to the fullest capacity. You feel what the main
characters are going through the sensation is uncanny. Robbins (Andy)
and Freeman ("Red") are a balance of the human spirit. Andy is your
freedom-seeking hope side and "Red" is your rational, pessimistic
counterpart. Find your equilibrium in "The Shawshank Redemption."

******
30 January 2016
10
Watched this movie more than 10 times and I love it every time. It has
all those things that a movie fan wants to see every time a press play.
I usually don't like jail or war movies that much, but this one is very
special and hasn't left the 1st place of my favorite movies list. The
actors are superb, two of the greatest actors still in this time worked
their best ever and even the "bad guys". Someone once told me that if
you really feel like you hate the "bad guy" is because is an excellent
actor, and it is so true! Prepare for a long couch and pop corn time
but for sure, and no one ever regret it. Recommended to anyone that is
willing to go through many emotions (the good ones).

******
29 January 2016
10
Shawshank Redemption showcases the best elements of human endurance.
The justice involved in both sides of the fence is heavily weighted
towards human dignity. It is still valid today as we look at men and
women enduring prison and racial injustices involving the treatment of
black prisoners. This comes out in Morgan Freeman's performance and the
reactions to his parole hearings.Tim Robbin's performance, shows the utter joy and excitement of beating
the system in his expressions during the record scene, and the arrival
of the library. The writing and dialogue show intelligence behind the
conversations of those whom are usually found to be marginalized. The character development of Red and his friends is absolutely
astonishing as they play off of and rely on the validity of Tim Robbins
pulling off a truly amazing performance. The Bad guy: is always hard to write about. But he did good making us
hate him, whatever that may entail, bless him. The cruel scenes are depicted with horror, while withdrawing dignity
from the character's card pile; and turning it over to the viewer. You
can crawl into their skin, but won't need therapy. The movie IS
therapy.

******
28 January 2016
9
the #exclusive debut of Kate Winslet's character poster for the intense
action thriller #Triple9. 2 of 5 1 hour ago - View on Twitter Watch:
New trailer takes you deeper into #TheSecretLifeOfPets - 3 of 5 11
hours ago - View on Twitter Media posted by IMDb Indeed, Joseph Fiennes
is going to play Michael Jackson. (2015)Rating: 7.2/10 - ‎16,238 votes Macbeth, the Thane of Glamis, receives a
prophecy from a trio of witches that ... In the news Image for the news
result IMDb Android App Gets Material Design Updates To Action Bar,
Navigation Menu, Search, And More Android Police‎ - 20 hours ago What's
playing right now? I don't know. Check IMDb. And while you're there,
notice the new ...

******
27 January 2016
10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
26 January 2016
10
This is definitely a classic. Its suspenseful and funny. Never left me
bored once. Very well written, I fell in love with every character
(except the bad ones). The friendship and bonds developed between the
inmates was a thing of beauty to watch. I fell like all aspects of the
prison was covered, between the downtime the characters spent, to the
bets and bribes, to the inmate activities. The plot takes you back a
few decades, so the clothing attire and mannerisms needed to match the
era. I think the actors did very will with keeping up pretenses. Very
engaging film. Would recommend to anyone with a little time on their
hands and willing to witness one of the greatest movies of all time.

******
26 January 2016
10
Hmmmm!What a movie. My two pennies' worth is that you get your best
friend to watch this movie with you, because this movie explains the
definition of what true friendship entails The Shawshank Redemption
epitomize everything you want in a movie. The
suspense,thrills,frills,intrigue,pain,and hope exhibited in the movie
was phenomenal. What more can I say about Morgan Freeman,his
performance in the Shawshank Redemption was great and he exhibited
mastery in delivering his lines. Tim Robbins,he truly justified his
selection to be the lead actor in the movie. Please watch this movie
and thank me later.

******
25 January 2016
8
Is this movie really well written, directed, performed and all those
important things? absolutely! Do I feel it lacks something? I do. First
of all, I really enjoyed this movie! It was touching, it was a great
cinematic experience, it had a really amazing plot... But honestly, I
feel like it isn't flawless. I think the ending was a bit predictable
and I felt like I was the whole movie expecting for something BIG to
happen... which din't happen. The acting in this movie, that is
flawless. Morgan Freeman was INCREDIBLE! Don't get me wrong, this movie
is great and you should definitely watch it, this is just my own
opinion.

******
25 January 2016
10
I saw this movie the first feeling that you will try to not feel the
same person. The banker Andy Dufresne, masterfully played by Tim
Robbins, is accused and punished by ergs for the alleged murder of his
wife and her lover. He will be sent to Shawshank Prison, where he is
director of Norton, whose corruption leads to the use of convicts to be
able to enrich. In this prison, much like a hell, Andy will find
support as Red, Morgan Freeman in his best performance but only earned
him a nomination for an Oscar. The result is a strong friendship
between the two, so much so that, for the persecuted Andy, Red becomes
like an island of sanity in a sea of ​​sharks who take advantage of
him. But here is the teaching of the film, grown because your passions
will redeem you, and you always have hope because hope is perhaps the
best thing for a man! The intelligence of Andy and his hope will allow
it to redeem himself and save a life ... that of Red. The considerer
one of the best films in cinema history and a must see for review. I am
surprised, but not that much, why did not win anything really important
... is considerable an injustice like the absurdly missed Oscar for
Best Picture in Taxi Driver, 2001 Space Odyssey, Clockwork Orange,
Awakenings, and Kane to the directors M. Scorsese, S.Kubrick and
O.Welles!

******
25 January 2016
10
I would say this movie is the best movie made till now. The way Tim
Robbins plays his part is definitely one of the best performances I
have ever seen. I've seen a lot of movies, and this is movie is
special. It has an amazing storyline and worth watching. On the other
hand, it is all played very natural, for me it doesn't feel like I am
watching a movie, it's like I am watching someone's memories. The way
the director and writers have put this movie together, it gives me the
idea I am there with them. Also, the way Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman
show their emotions, you can see they are first-class actors. It is 2
hours and 20 minutes of sympathizing with the main character. There are
so many lessons in this movie which you can use in the modern days. If
possible, I'll show this movie to my children and try to let them
explain why the choices were made and ask for their opinion.

******
25 January 2016
10
It was the most impressive movie that I've ever seen. It taught us if
you are in even in jail, you shouldn't lose your hope.Because "Hope is
a good thing. Maybe the best of things. And no good thing ever dies."
Although there is going to be appear some unnerving problems in your
life even you are rich or poor, white or black, happy or sad etc. You
will have to fight all about this problems although if you feel like a
weak. But if you lose your faith and hope there would no point what you
are against or why you fight. Because your best friend is your hope.
There is no meaning to live if you don't any hope any goals with you.
Don't let them to steal your hopes from you otherwise you will just
become like a walking dead.

******
25 January 2016
10
Though the film is set in Maine, the Ohio State Reformatory in
Mansfield, Ohio, served as the fictional Shawshank State Penitentiary.
Although a large portion of the prison was torn down after filming, the
main administration building and two cell blocks remained; the site was
revisited for filming parts of the film Air Force One.[12] Several of
the interior shots of the specialized prison facilities, such as the
admittance rooms and the warden's office, were shot in the reformatory.
[12] The interior of the boarding room used by Brooks and Red was
located in the administration building, though exterior shots were made
elsewhere.[12] The prison site is a tourist attraction.[12] Internal
scenes in the prison cell blocks were actually filmed on a soundstage
built inside the nearby shuttered Westinghouse factory.[12] Downtown
scenes were also filmed in Mansfield, as well as neighboring Ashland,
Ohio. The oak tree under which Andy buries his letter to Red is located
at 40°39′14″N 82°23′31″W, near Malabar Farm State Park, in Lucas, Ohio.
The tree was heavily damaged by straight-line winds in a thunderstorm
on July 29, 2011; officials were unsure if the tree would survive.[13]
However, due to rally groups and inspections by forestry organizations,
the tree was found to be alive and well and still stands today.[14]Just as a prison in Ohio stood in for a fictional one in Maine, the
beach scenes shown in the final minutes of the film meant to portray
Zihuatanejo, Mexico, were actually shot in the Caribbean on the island
of St. Croix, one of the U.S. Virgin Islands. The beach at
'Zihuatanejo' is Sandy Point National Wildlife Refuge, a two-mile
crescent of sand just south of Frederiksted on the southwestern tip of
the island. The refuge is a hatching ground for leather back sea
turtles, and open only at limited times (10 am to 4 pm on Saturdays and
Sundays), and not at all during the breeding season.[15]The film was dedicated to Allen Greene,

******
24 January 2016
10
Timeless classic and doesn't have to brag itself to be known as the
most riveting drama of all time, a brilliant main role combination of
Freeman and Robbins, exceptionally finished. I think It was a very good
movie because the story was very catching, and the film was very
exciting because I got him very passionate continue to watch from
beginning to end. The film, in my opinion deserve a 10/10. It's an
excellent movie, it's a movie you must see. It's an engagingly simple,
good-hearted film, with just enough darkness around the edges to give
contrast and relief to its glowingly benign view of human nature.
Morgan Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a man who has never struck
a false note in his career, both narrates this tale and anchors it with
his authoritative playing.

******
24 January 2016
9
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story
about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than
a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk
about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom.
Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and
Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other.
Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment
they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful
performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.He shines when it is his time to go back into the world, only to find
that the world grew up so fast he never even got a chance to blink.
Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and
excitement. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking
about in 50 or 100 years.

******
23 January 2016
9
if you haven't watched this movie yet, you are missing out my friend.
it is one of those movies where the plot moves ahead and you don't have
an exact idea about what lies ahead until the final 20 minutes. Having
said all that, the film is satisfying, but cloying. Andy is the
minister of the healing power of hope. He educates the inmates on the
healing power of Mozart. He builds a library. He asks Red why he
stopped playing the harmonica. When Red replies that it's no use in
prison, Andy looks at him soulfully and replies that "here's where you
need it the most." Despite the somewhat unbelievable friendship between
a white, upper-class, innocent banker and a black man in 1949, it's a
valuable lesson that may seem inspired to children who haven't heard
this story a couple hundred times. You would want to clap and jump out
of your seat when Andy's genius and patience is on display for the
world to see. excellent movie, excellent plot and Morgan Freeman's
narration is the added bonus.

******
23 January 2016
9
Thia is the Best Movie of Prison Escape Ever in my view as of its
suspense & drama before they even escape with showing technical ways of
brilliant mind ..... MOrgan freeman showing his Class as Always ....
with exceptional camera work of close cell scenes ..... Best Location &
Escaping route ..... Credit to sound producer as well as casting
directors for amazing supportive cast not even making minor mistakes
.... Good thing not showing extreme make ups as it was less action &
more drama type .... I Personally love it because it was released on my
birthday exactly ON birthday ...... heads off to director & producer
for coming up with the best team for best movie.

******
21 January 2016
10
This is my subjective view of the film. I don't suppose that any
opinion about a movie should be based on analytical reasoning. Rather,
the response should come from the heart and focus on the feelings the
movie elicit. After all, the medium of motion picture is to do with
emotions of people more than the critical acclaim and awards.I love every scene of the movie. The message of the movie resonates
more and more as the time progresses. You can take anything you want
from the movie. No matter what kind of situation you find yourself in
your life or the personal crisis you are dealing with, this movie will
help you.In the 20th anniversary interview, the director has said about the
viewer mails he received about the redemptive power of the movie. This
holds true for a long time. I think it will hold true for a long time
to come. The most poignant message of the film is about hope, consistency and
perseverance. This themes are the focus of many great films. But none
lifts the spirits of the viewer like this movie does.WATCH IT OFTEN AND STAY POSITIVE. MORE OF A FRIENDLY COMPANION THAN A
MOVIE.

******
21 January 2016
9
WARDEN NORTON: I believe in two things: discipline and the Bible. Here
you'll receive both. Put your trust in the Lord; your ass belongs to
me. Welcome to Shawshank.RED: I could see why some of the boys took him for snobby. He had a
quiet way about him, a walk and a talk that just wasn't normal around
here. He strolled, like a man in a park without a care or a worry in
the world, like he had on an invisible coat that would shield him from
this place. Yeah, I think it would be fair to say...I liked Andy from
the start.ANDY: I guess it comes down to a simple choice, really. Get busy living
or get busy dying.WARDEN NORTON: Lord! It's a miracle! Man up and vanished like a fart in
the wind!RED: Same old sh*t, different day.CAPTAIN HADLEY: What is your malfunction, you fat barrel of monkey
spunk?BROOKS: Easy peasy japanesey.RED: I have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged.
Their feathers are just too bright. And when they fly away, the part of
you that knows it was a sin to lock them up does rejoice. Still, the
place you live in is that much more drab and empty that they're gone. I
guess I just miss my friend.ANDY: Remember Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and
no good thing ever dies.ANDY: You know what the Mexicans say about the Pacific? RED: No. ANDY:
They say it has no memory. That's where I want to live the rest of my
life. A warm place with no memory.RED: I find I'm so excited that I can barely sit still or hold a
thought in my head. I think it's the excitement only a free man can
feel. A free man at a start of a long journey whose conclusion is
uncertain. I hope I can make it across the border. I hope to see my
friend and shake his hand. I hope the Pacific is as blue as it has been
in my dreams. I hope.

******
21 January 2016
10
This film has it's own character, out of any time and place. If you
know anything about Justice or Prison, then you can easily see the
reality portrayed. The storyline is perfect, with deep layers of
emotions. Watching it many times, I see why the younger generation
wants to see this picture. So many of the films with Law and Order(no
pun intended), are not real. Being more of a period piece, this is a
teaching tool on how to do those projects. The convictions alone of the
actors, is so refreshing, very few films have this involved with the
Director. Will watch it again and again, some of my favorite Actors
also...

******
21 January 2016
10
Hope........ Like water and air is important for life Hope Is important
for how u want live your life So Don't Loose is up and a must watch
movie for every human the best star cast the best writer the best
director this movie hasn't win Oscar but it will win your heart please
watch its gonna change your life The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a
Mockingbird are the best movies I have ever seen. I do not judge it by
it's technical merits - I don't really care about that. I have read
that Citizen Kane or The Godfather or this or that movie is the best
movie ever made. They may have the best technique or be the most
influential motion pictures ever made, but not the best. The best
movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The
Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul. Can Hollywood, usually creating
things for entertainment purposes only, create art? To create something
of this nature, a director must approach it in a most meticulous
manner, due to the delicacy of the process. Such a daunting task
requires an extremely capable artist with an undeniable managerial
capacity and an acutely developed awareness of each element of art in
their films, the most prominent; music, visuals, script, and acting.
These elements, each equally important, must succeed independently, yet
still form a harmonious union, because this mixture determines the fate
of the artist's opus. Though already well known amongst his colleagues
for his notable skills at writing and directing, Frank Darabont emerges
with his feature film directorial debut, The Shawshank Redemption.
Proving himself already a master of the craft, Darabont managed to
create one of the most recognizable independent releases in the history
of Hollywood. The Shawshank Redemption defines a genre, defies the
odds, compels the emotions, and brings an era of artistically
influential films back to Hollywood.

******
19 January 2016
10
Perhaps Not to the liking of some of this great achievement, this
achievement deserves to be the best ever in each side of this film is
fun cannot find a description of the film may be the amounts in the
Praise but for the sake of this film is one of the greatest
achievements of the cinema.The total of the scenes that make you a shock of the genius of the
output and montage of the crew of the entire technical creativity does
not ultra in this work is difficult to compare between him and any
other movie I see that deserves to be ranked as it is.The role played by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman as if the fact and
not the representation of the wonder of creative mind delicious j they
have done in this film either by the end of others never commission
that may be the best in the history of art is indeed one of the
greatest ends that could be seen a follower.

******
19 January 2016
10
Speechless.Of the 7 nominations received he was not any. Competing against two
giants like Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction and still no one branded a
loser. For all that we have seen swarming around the top of the
greatest films ever made.Best unblinking view to not miss a single scene.In summary, a masterpiece like the crown of a pine. A film that, while
not teach you anything new, makes you love movies like few others. A
photograph very wise, excellent assembly and a colossal adaptation.MASTERPIECE"The funny thing is - on the outside, I was an honest man, straight as
an arrow. I had to come to prison to be a crook."Speechless...

******
19 January 2016
10
Well, I don't really give 10/10 for every film. Yes, there are few who
I would give 10/10 for like Back to The future, The Green Mile, 12
angry men and Forrest Gump but this movie is something else. it really
tops them all. I have no idea how this didn't win Best Picture in 1994.
I mean, pulp fiction and Forrest Gump are great but this one is simply
magnificent. It is the definition of hope and redemption. no matter how
things go south on you in life you got to keep that little piece of
hope to go on. The performances of Freeman and Tim Robbins are really
beautiful. Frank Darabont one of my favorite directors put on one of
the greatest performances to date though he hasn't directed many movies
in his lifetime but it is really about the quality and not the
quantity. So, if you would like to see a real film that keeps you on the edge of
your seat, gives you hope and enjoy a real film experience you got to
watch the greatest movie in my opinion, The Shawshank Redemption.

******
17 January 2016
7
If there is a film by which other films should be judged, this is as good as it can get.Powerful,engaging, visceral, despairing, a masterfully woven dialogue
of what it means to be human. It's one of those journeys of the human spirit that just makes you feel
happy to be alive.Shawshank is more than a feel good movie, it's about life-changing
experiences, about the endless struggle against life's harshness and unfairness,
about true friends who will stand by you forever... The simple yet hard to convey messages could not be handled more subtly
than this.

******
16 January 2016
10
I am not a HUGE Stephen King fan. I'm just not into the scary stuff.
But this film is absolutely AMAZING. Over the years I have watched this
film numerous times and it just never gets old. I can't begin to
imagine what an inmate that has spent the majority of their life behind
bars goes through after being released into the world once again. The
trials and tribulations have to b huge. This film helps the rest of the
world to understand what they go thru. AND I LOVE how Tim Robins gets
the cash at the end and Morgan Freeman shows up. Just outstanding. I'm
sure. This is one of the films that has helped to push me to be an
actor. I just hope I can be half as talented as ALL talent in this
film.

******
16 January 2016
10
Best movie ever.Tim Robbins acting is exquisite and Morgan Freeman's narrating is
mesmerizing.How Stephen King can create such a story is beyond me.I love how you almost feel like a part of the prison family Andy and
Red has and how you get to follow them. You also get to understand how
an ex-con tries to adopt to a life on the outside after spending their
whole life behind bars.What I disliked with the movie was that I felt a particular plot point
was thrown together in haste but after that the movie resumes to it's
10/10 stars standard.

******
10 January 2016
10
This movie is just amazing. Star cast, superb photography, brilliant
achievement, and a spectacular argument. It's one of those movies that
make only far away, and never forget. I've seen him several times and I
miss him a lot of people. How can a man so apparently weak and without
energy and character, have survived so many years to dream, never
giving up on a dream, having endured so many hardships, a battering,
raped, etc. And yet he gave hope to his jail mates, let alone its true
friends. And the end .. could take revenge on everyone, especially the
chain director. Conclusion is an excellent film in every respect,
should never be overlooked nor see, ever.

******
10 January 2016
8
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story
about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than
a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk
about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom.
Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and
Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other.
Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment
they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful
performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.He shines when it is his time to go back into the world, only to find
that the world grew up so fast he never even got a chance to blink.
Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and
excitement. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking
about in 50 or 100 years.

******
9 January 2016
10
The Shawshank Redemption will be the highest praised film by the
general public for decades to come. It is very tough to dislike this
film; perhaps there are some that find it overrated, but its message
speaks to anybody who has a heart and soul.Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) befriends Red (Morgan Freeman) shortly
after he is convicted to serve two life sentences for the murder of his
wife and her lover. He is somewhat of a mystery to Red since he does
not seem like a murderer at all and goes out of his way to improve
Shawshank prison by attempting to establish a better library in the
prison by himself. He is better educated than most and his friends
learn from him and follow him as if he was the Lord. Most importantly,
he sticks to the idea of hope even after having a couple horrible years
at the beginning of his sentence.Dufresne is a great character and role model for his friends, but the
story's focus is on Red's reaction to Andy's actions and influence on
the group. He becomes so close to Andy that he confesses his guilt to
Andy in privacy as if Andy was a priest. This is a surprise to Andy
since the inmates have a joke that "everybody in Shawshank is
innocent."These two stars are incredible in the film, though Freeman expresses a
little more emotion than Robbins does. Robbins is essentially there to
be a guide for his character's friends while Freeman is a voice of
reason through learning from his experience in prison. He plays a
character who is a little bit older than the rest (besides a character
named Brooks) and who understands and fears the notion of becoming
institutionalized.This story of friendship and hope is inspirational in countless ways.
At several times it seems to implicate that characters will give up but
at the last second they make a hard turn and decide to move on and
persevere. This is a drama, so not everything which unfolds is happy,
but the dreariness within the film makes the case for the power of hope
that much stronger.There are so many memorable things about The Shawshank Redemption. It
has phenomenal leading performances, brilliant music by Thomas Newman,
its use of Mozart in relation to the setting of a prison is powerful,
the interaction of the characters make for some memorable comedic bits
to help us make it through the drama, and the list goes on and on. And
even without these factors, the movie is superb at getting such an
inspiring message across, and the ending maybe have you weeping with
joy.Even though this is not the greatest movie ever made, this is the one
film everybody must watch in their lifetime. Powerful stuff.4.0/4.0

******
8 January 2016
10
At a port town, a crowd of passengers disembarks from a steamboat;
among them, a grizzled cowboy with a gun at his hip. Two lawmen escort
him out.Newsie: Extra, extra, health benefits of smoking! Extra, extra, read
allabout...hey! Watch it, mister!The cop had shoved him aside.Newsie: Extra, extra! Bill Williamson's gang...They walk out of range, ending up at Blackwater Station. The cowboy
gets on the train without speaking a word, and takes a seat as the
steam engine leaves town. Two ladies behind him, and a young lady and a
preacher in front of him, hold their own conversations.Lady: Well, I for one am grateful, Mrs. Bush, that they are finally
bringingcivilization to this savage land.Mrs. Bush: I could not agree with you more, my dear. My daddy settled
thisland and I know he'll be looking down on us, pleased at how wehelped the natives.Lady: Yes they've lost their land, but they've gained access to heaven.John listens to the young lady and the preacher in the seat ahead of
him.Jenny: But Father, do you mean unless an innocent receives communion,
they'redestined to go to hell? That hardly seems fair.Father: What I mean to say, Jenny, is that there is a great deal of
differencebetween an innocent and a savage.Jenny: I never thought of it that way.Lady: Yes they live like animals. But they're happier now.Jenny: Not only do people now have motorcars, father, but I heard
pretty soonwe will be able to fly.Father: No, angels can fly, Jenny.Jenny: No, no, apparently people can fly. Didn't you hear? Out in
Kansas a maneven got a car to fly.

******
8 January 2016
10
There's no movie based on a fictional novel could embrace perfection
like this movie.Hawking had to be proud.Tim Robbins has proved that his
dramatized talent is extremely rare.While Morgan talent has been
essential movie after movie i can't find a role for freeman in one hand
with the existence of the philosophical dimension on the other hand.The
movie in general spreads how the bureaucratic employers are working
when it comes to save a life and then how would they react when they
have to make a choice between their benefits and others life.Dufresne
defiantly reflects the justice face and while the warden reflect the
true face of opportunism,Stephen King couldn't imagine there's an actor
can wear Dufresne so perfectly as Tim.

******
8 January 2016
10
I am not well enough equipped to explain just how much I love this
film. I have long since lost count of the times I have watched it from
beginning to end. Though some of the film's content can make for
difficult viewing, there is such a richness in the story that I just
haven't seen anywhere else. The characters are brilliantly written and
though they all have their serious flaws, you can imagine the
friendship and experiences they share as if they are your own. The
ending of the film is ridiculously uplifting and the music throughout
the film is absolutely beautiful. This film will make you laugh, cry
and smile in equal measure. A truly unforgettable experience that will
leave it's mark on me until the day I die I highly recommend this film
to anyone who hasn't seen it. If you have seen it then maybe it's time
you go watch it again!

******
8 January 2016
10
This is a really good story and i like this movie so much!)Its so
emotional and so pretty,i have never seen such an amazing movie.I watch
it and i couldn't speak... A brilliant movie that is not too short, not too long. It's worth every
minute watching.This is a magic story of Stephen King and director Frank Darabont, and
i truly thanks for this masterpiece to this greatest peopleIt is the best movie of the 90's, and one of my favorite, so if you
haven't seen this movie go watch it, you will not be disappointed,
because this movie i will revise for so many times...

******
7 January 2016
10
Absolutely the best film i have ever seen, nothing compares to the
cinematography, the acting and the story itself. it's a great piece of
art that will live on forever and be a part of cinema history for many
more years. I can remember the first time i ever saw this movie, my now
late mother showed it to me and told me that it was a really good
movie.(this is when it came on HBO i think) i couldn't believe my eyes
even at the age of 11 i was already into the best of movies, and when i
watched the story unfold in front of me and witnessed the pure
cinematography of it. It immediately became my favorite film of all
time. And to this day, 17 years later i am a filmmaker myself and
someday strive to make a movie half as good as the shawshank
redemption.

******
7 January 2016
10
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. Out of the three
genre-defining classics released in 1994, The Shawshank Redemption was
the one that ended up bearing the maximum brunt. First commercially by
failing to recover its budget for it debuted in theatres together with
one of cinema's greatest watershed events; Pulp Fiction. And then at
Academy Awards where it was nominated for seven Oscars yet failed to
win any, thanks to the sweeping show by the critics' darling, Forrest
Gump.But life ever since has been very kind to this film, and both critics &
viewers have embraced its uplifting story of hope & friendship with
remarkable amount of respect, love & kindness. Today, The Shawshank
Redemption enjoys a position that's arguably even higher than the two
classics which eclipsed it back in 1994 and while it was discarded at
its time of release, it is now rightly & universally acknowledged as
one of the greatest films of all time.The Shawshank Redemption tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a successful
banker, who is wrongfully convicted of murdering his wife & her illicit
lover and is ultimately sentenced to two consecutive life terms in
prison where his coping with the brutal hardships of confined life
slowly earns him the respect of his fellow inmates & prison staff,
including that of "Red" in whom Andy finds a trusted ally. The
remainder of the film explores their friendship over the next two
decades.Written & directed by Frank Darabont, this prison drama is a simple but
profoundly moving tale of hope, friendship & redemption that'll manage
to connect deeply with most of us in one way or another plus it also
marks Darabont's directional debut and he couldn't have asked for a
better start. All this film has is men in either prison or police
uniforms talking to one another over the course of its runtime and yet
it never looked dull or felt like dragging at any given moment.Cinematography exquisitely captures the monotonous daily life inside
prison and provides considerable depth & realism to the era this film
is set in. Every moment of despair has a shadowy appearance while
moments of hope gleam with light. Editing is spectacular too as the
gradual progression of Andy's life, his friendship with Red, and his
determination to not give in to the four walls containing him is
effectively unfolded. And Thomas Newman's score beautifully blends with
the film's tone & characters' lives, and is emotionally fulfilling.Coming to the performances, Tim Robbins delivers a swashbuckling
performance as Andy Dufresne, the banker wrongfully convicted for the
crime he didn't commit. And if Robbins is at his best, then Morgan
Freeman is even better as Red, Andy's friend who is also serving a life
sentence & is notorious amongst the inmates for he can smuggle goods
into the prison. Freeman also narrates the story to us at which he does
an even better job. His work is grounded & can go easily unnoticed, but
the character of Red is the soul of this story.There is a reason why this film still connects with so many people &
why many of them have latched on to it. There is a reason why even
after two decades, its legacy keeps flourishing & viewers keep
returning to it despite its low entertainment value. One major reason
is that even though The Shawshank Redemption is a prison drama, its
story of imprisonment goes far beyond the bricks & steel rods of a jail
house. The entire picture is a reflection of our own imprisonment in
the institutions of our daily lives; institutions like work, family,
society etc & living up to the expectations of each one of them.On an overall scale, The Shawshank Redemption stresses that based on
the outlook of life, there are only two types of people: one who can be
free even in prison while others who find themselves imprisoned even in
freedom. The message it is trying to resonate is clear: Fear can hold
you prisoner, Hope can set you free. And if we all give ourselves some
hope, there is nothing we can't survive. Yes, it all seems preachy n
everything, but then if there's ever been a motion picture that has
earned this sort of right, it's The Shawshank Redemption. Strongly
recommended.

******
7 January 2016
10
A story of friendship and endurance set in the reality of prison life,
The Shawshank Redemption is best known as an Oscar-nominated film.
However, this theatre production is based instead on the original
novella written by Stephen King relatively early in his career.The direction in this piece is stylised, with a deliberate slow rhythm
and pace, particularly in the first act, greatly reducing any sense of
menace that you would expect from this so-called tough prison. It is
almost Brechtian in style. This becomes frustrating as it takes much of
the emotion out of the production; a vital piece of the human
connection that then means the audience is less invested in the outcome
of the possibly innocent Andy Dufresne and the lovable rouge Red. This
underplaying of emotion results in a restrained and difficult to engage
with character in Dufresne, played by Ian Kelsey. There are moments of
anguish from Kelsey, but with the direction holding such a tight reign
on the characters, the moments are too far and between. Patrick
Robinson's Red fares a little better as he addresses the audience with
a charming older storytelling voice, but is still not given enough
freedom to truly embrace Red's charisma. When using this deliberate
stylised direction, the impact on the reality of the stage fighting
also showed, again detracting from the idea of brutality.The second half picks up the pace slightly and the play overall is
watchable with good performances all round from the cast. However,
without the rawness derived from emotional context, the prison life
never feels as if it is unbearable to be in or watch, meaning the power
of the ending is lessened.By Isabella Fraser

******
6 January 2016
10
First of all, the actors chosen to play the key roles were absolutely
suitable and fitted each other. More specifically, Morgan Freeman is
remarkable. In addition, the direction of the movie was flawless.
Excellent Photography! Furthermore, the music was stunning. Wonderful
sounds to accompany this epic film. Concerning the story, it was really
touching. From the beginning of the film, you get stuck in front of the
screen to watch every single scene. You travel in a world of anxiety,
pain and ultimate redemption. I love this film so much because of the
perfect combination of all the fundamental elements. It is almost
certain that you will get emotionally attached with all the characters.
To sum up, The Shawshank Redemption is a movie you should watch. It is
totally a piece of art.

******
5 January 2016
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a well-crafted prison drama and another
great movie to add to Frank Darabont's impressive filmography. Morgan
Freeman is the standout as one of the most endearing characters in
cinema history, while Tim Robbins and a host of excellent character
actors fill out an outstanding ensemble cast that make you feel like
you are there with them in that prison. This is an emotionally
satisfying film with many memorable character moments sprinkled into an
otherwise pretty standard plot. While I find it to be a little too
sensitive at times, this is an excellent motion picture and a must see.
It may deserve to be generally regarded as (one of) the most overrated
film(s) ever made, but it is above all a wonderful, uplifting and
deeply touching tale of hope and perseverance that certainly deserves
to be remembered as one of the best adaptations of a Stephen King
story.

******
4 January 2016
10
One of Tim's best performances. He deserved all awards & nominations
for this film. Definitely one of the best films I've ever seen. The
best part of the movie is the whole thing. Although some parts of the
movie were a bit violent, it was done with taste and I felt it was
important to the story as a whole. Although the film was rather long,
it still was able to hold my attention... I was never in a state of
mind where I was wondering "When is this movie going to end", and that
is very rare with me. I cannot believe I went so many years without
seeing this film. It is very much a must-see film. It is great to view
for ages 12 and up. This movie has such great story-telling, and uses
great dialog, unlike anything you'll ever see in other films. Very
well-done to the directors, crew, and especially the cast members.
Outstanding.

******
4 January 2016
10
Cinematography just isn't what it used to be. This movie is not only my
personal favorite but also the favorite of the approximate 1.5 million
people who have rated this title. The way that this film is made cannot
be rivaled by today's standards. The writing, the acting, the scenery,
etc combine to make this possibly the best movie that will ever be
made. I don't think that this will ever be matched.I have seen Shawshank about 100 times, this is no joke. Every time I
watch it I feel the same way that I did when I watched it for the first
time. It will never get old. Every time I watch this I begin to
sympathize with Andy and enjoy watching his friendship with Red grow. I
am in complete awe until the closing credits begin to roll.I sincerely believe that no one can match the power of the Shawshank
Redemption.

******
4 January 2016
3
I thought I had never seen this movie before and then I happened upon
it on TV. Then I realized I was required to see this movie in public
school(in which I zoned out with boredom).Basically it's a campy Forest Gump-like story of prison with the common
tropes of rape and racism--but nothing like a real prison for most
people--I mean who goes to prison and gets a cushy office job? It's okay for a generic movie but as a prison story you will be left
wanting.In fact, here are a few reasons to see a different movie: 1 - The escape plan: It's silly and simple. Makes you think the prison
was run by complete idiots. Escape from Alcatraz with Clint Eastwood is
much better.2 - The final escape: pretty anti-climatic. Just finally happens and
then movie is basically over. Once again, go see Escape from Alcatraz
if you're expecting extensive tunneling/swimming or something that
makes you feel like the prisoner earned their freedom.3 - If you want a prison story about that best captures the essence of
the desire to be free watch Papillon. It's roughly based on the French
penal colony system during WW2 and numerous escape attempts.

******
3 January 2016
10
By submitting this review you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our
Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your own original work.
Your review will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business
days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted.
Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported
though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line
between paragraph. By submitting this review you are agreeing to the
terms laid out in our Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your
own original work. Your review will normally be posted on the site
within 2-3 business days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will
not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is
not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a
blank line between paragraph.

******
2 January 2016
10
It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
31 December 2015
10
I couldn't have asked for a more direct movie. I am so glad this movie
was made. Thanks so much for making it. From what i was told bout
prison from my friend he told me that this movie was a dead ringer. It
makes me never want to go to prison. After seeing this movie i cried my eyes out for about a good 24 hrs..
Yes i know that makes me a cry baby, but i don't care. This movie is
definitely a tear jerker. Thanks again. This movie has everything about
a day to day life in a prison from sun up to bed time. Remember that
prison isn't a laughing matter.This movie has showed me what a crap hole prison can be.

******
30 December 2015
10
This movie is so good that words can't possibly be enough to explain
its awesomeness. It starts out on a pretty dark note with killings and
crime but as the story progresses we see how crime or rather criminals
is not always simply black or white, its layers of Grey one cannot
objectively see but only feel. We see how the lead character Andy
Dufresne grows as a human, accompanied by Morgan Freeman or as people
call him " Red ", his voice sounds like liquid gold. Over the movie you
will feel many things, happy would be one of them but wait for that
moment because when you finally reach the point where Morgan Freeman is
telling you about the Blue of the Pacific and the camera pans out to
the ocean, it will be all worth it in the end.

******
30 December 2015
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont.

******
30 December 2015
10
Usually the movies/films are NEVER as good as the BOOKS! Whether novel,
novella and or short story.. Yet "THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION" shatters
that ideology. From the writing of the script, production, the casting,
directing, cinematography to every "drop" of acting, leached, extracted
most exquisitely much like the vinification of cultured grapes to a
fine wine. The actors fully embody their characters until the
characters are not there but the people the viewer watches as their
individual lives are played out before us.This is a movie that draws you in by your very heart and soul and
"places" you there.. You "breath" this film. "You" feel this film. And
once a person with a sense of life and empathy has seen "The Shawshank
Redemption" it resonates with you just like the first time one sees the
ocean or the mountains. For the average every day person who doubts life can change so
drastically in the brief moment it takes one to exhale.. To the true
film connoisseur this film.. Much like the oceans and the mountains..
Should never be left.. ~unperceived.. dawn bigelow aka dawnssong4u

******
30 December 2015
10
This remains a movie that I can watch repeatedly and notice new things
I hadn't the previous times watching it.Extraordinarily scripted and filmed. The impact is poignant and the
exquisite narration of Mr Freeman gives this flick its stand-alone
point in history as one of the greatest, fictional movies ever made. The casting leaves you wanting to know more about, not only the
protagonists, but all the characters' lives and futures / outcomes. The script leaves you asking for nothing as it addresses every point
you could have thought of. Wildly entertaining, funny, heart-warming and empowering all at once.
Brings a tear to your eye on more than one occasion and makes you fall
in love all over again with cinema...Hurrah!

******
30 December 2015
10
This is my first review here, and i'm glad it's about Shawshank
Redemption. What I really loved about this movie is how a man with
sheer determination can accomplish even far-fetched goals. It also
shows how to pick ourselves up when we are at our lowest. The movie
also highlights friendship.I think Red's friendship with Andy is the
very thing that kept Red from ending up like Brooke. I really loved the
part when Red said "I'd like to think that the last thing that went
through his head, other than that bullet, was how the hell Andy
Dufresne ever got the best of him". Overall, it really is a masterpiece
and deserves the top position.

******
29 December 2015
10
The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.

******
26 December 2015
9
This is one of the few films that I found to be an improvement over the
original story. There were a couple spots in the novella that were a
little weak. Don't get me wrong, the story is great, but the film made
some improvements, and in doing so, made a better story. I will add a
note about Stand by me, another adaptation of a S. Kings novella. This
time, the story took the city of Portland Maine and made it Portland
Oregon; a brilliant move. The stories told within the story were
removed except for a few short snippets. The pie eating contest was
important, but many of the other stories told within the original
novella were a little too strange and took away some of the vigor of
the story for me. Two great stories, made into two greater films.

******
24 December 2015
10
This is a great movie, and I watched it many times -- with every time I
watch it , my love and understanding of the movie grows.One of the best movies involving jail terms.Not only have a strong
story line, but also backed up by great direction and very strong
acting.The voice of Morgan Freeman is a catalyst.There is one part for which I did not get an explanation from the movie
-- why did the warden kill Tommy Williams? Of course, Tommy Williams
could prove that Andy was innocent, but what benefit would the warden
get by stopping him? I did not find any reason for that act.

******
23 December 2015
10
This film is on e of the ultimate experience for viewers that watch
movies because they wish to be transported into another place and time.
I promise that once the story starts you will be swept away against
your will and returned beyond your imagination. Literally and
experience that will make you cry with joy. This is superb film from
start to finish with outstanding acting, direction and storytelling. I
cannot imagine a finer art work on the subjects covered in this
indelible story that transcends all generations and walks of life. It's
more than a film or a movie. The Shawshank Redemption is a pure
American Classic and we, the viewing public are much better by being
blessed by the opportunity to see it.

******
23 December 2015
10
This is one of the best movies i ever saw. For sure in top 5 movies in
history. Actors are so good, you think everything is real. I would
recommend this movie to anyone. Strong story, act is on high level. My
favorite actor is Morgan Freeman so you can think how i'm happy that he
is the one acting in this movie. If you watch this, you will enjoy
every second of it. Pefect movie for family night. I would watch this
every day. The plot for this film is very unique, I don't think I've
ever seen anything quite like this. It is the sort of film that will
keep you guessing as to what will happen next and it was just a very
interesting concept overall.

******
22 December 2015
10
There's not many movies I can watch over and over again, but this is
one of them. It just feels pitch perfect. Well written, perfectly
casted ... the cinematography is flawless. By far, Darabont's crown
jewel. Everything just works so well. And Morgan Freeman's (now
ubiquitous) narration is the heart and soul of the film. A dark but
uplifting tale about hope and friendship. A timeless, Hollywood
masterpiece.I sometimes wonder if films like this will ever be made again? Would it
even be possible for a movie like this to be greenlit today and compete
with Fast & Furious 23? Probably not. If you haven't seen this movie,
waste no time, find it and watch it.

******
22 December 2015
9
"The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may
have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it,
and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There
is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But
mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal
worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a
sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption This movie is a very good look into how easy man can get
corrupted in prison or on the outside. We see that with Andy and how he
became bad while he was in the prison. Also that we should have a
program for prisoners so can adjust to the real world. I think with
this brooks would have made it. I can see that we as a society need to
have wake up call from this movie to stay strong and not let Satan get
the best of you. By not giving into temptations and don't go chasing
waterfalls!!!

******
22 December 2015
10
What a great movie. What journey and what struggle. The film maintains
the viewers' interest thought in the middle just for a moment you might
get the impression the film is a little too long. It is a classic. The
acting is superb. The plot is strong enough to keep you glued to the
screen, and the twists and turns make you feel you are watching a real
situation from life, with artistic beauty about it. You never know how
the movie will end, and then there can a twist yet in the tale that may
turn out to be the very essence of the movie. The film is rightly an
academic content by now. Apparently, you may feel the film is a little
boring due to a prominent and beautiful woman missing, but the fact is
the film does not fail in keeping you interested in it until the very
end.

******
20 December 2015
10
Superb movie. Based on a Stephen King short story, the story of Andy Dufresne (played
by Tim Robbins), sent to prison for murdering his wife and her lover.
In prison he is befriended by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman) who helps
him survive the harsh prison life.A beautiful, moving story. Characters are steadily and solidly
developed, and you feel an empathy for the main characters. Direction
by Frank Darabont is subtle, and perfect. Pacing is spot- on.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are excellent in the lead roles. Freeman
got a Best Actor Oscar nomination for his efforts.Well deserving of all the praise heaped upon it. Just a pity it didn't
garner any Oscars, losing out, in the most part, to a far inferior
movie, Forrest Gump.

******
15 December 2015
10
Together with SHREK these were both rather perfect screenplays. I thank
ALL the writers for the insightful work they did.Behind their work stands mountains of folks coming their way. The
conflict was tremendous on each film.The characters had full arcs and the writing was well done. After
writing novels and screenplays I must say scripts are more challenging
because of the format and the short lengths.This specific film reminds me of my experiences as a policeman,
sheriff, and marshal. The characters were very true to life.After working in L.A. for years; I went to Reno, NV, as a sheriff.
There I ran into a fellow in jail that was basically there for life.He was extremely recalcitrant. A huge problem. Thank GOD I had been
always respectful to prisoners. A group of there trusties came up to me
that had know me from L.A. They told me, "Don't worry about him, Deputy
Knight."The next night he looked like a truck hit him. From that time onward he
called me "Deputy Knight, sir, with respect."The film emulates that type of honesty.

******
13 December 2015
10
There are standard ways to stage a prison film and standard ways to
tell a story by Stephen King. But "The Shawshank Redemption," based on
a King novella and set in the correctional institution of the title,
succeeds in avoiding the familiar.Without a single riot scene or horrific effect, it tells a slow, gentle
story of camaraderie and growth, with an ending that abruptly finds
poetic justice in what has come before. The writer and director, Frank
Darabont, tells this tale with a surprising degree of loving care.There are times when "The Shawshank Redemption" comes dangerously close
to sounding one of those "triumph of the human spirit" notes. But most
of it is eloquently restrained. Despite an excess of voice- over
narration and inspirational music, Mr. Darabont's film has a genuine
dignity that holds the interest. It is helped greatly by fine,
circumspect performances from Morgan Freeman as a rueful lifer named
Red and Tim Robbins as Andy, the new kid on the cell block. The film
spans nearly 20 years of friendship between these two.

******
12 December 2015
10
I'm not a professional critic, so I will put it the simplest way I can.
This movie is one of those movies you keep coming back to every few
years and watch again. It will never get old either.The prison represents life itself, the lives we were born to at least,
and it tells us another life is possible out there and for that we must
be able to break out of the life we are born to. The film shows the birth, maturation and re-birth of a person who does
not belong to the society at large. In the final the man is reborn in
mud, filthy just like before, but this time he is going to live the
life he chose.

******
12 December 2015
10
This movie is excellent, regarding every aspect! You can't stop
watching it 'till its last second! The acting is great, all actors are
amazing, the story is kind of genius, very well-conducted, specially
for a long movie as this one! And of course, it was written by Stephen
King, one of my favorite authors. In fact, I think this movie gets the
#1 place in all book adaptations from him! Morgan Freeman and Tim
Robbins matched perfectly, two amazing artists. Every detail of this
movie grabs your attention without you even notice! The first time I
saw this movie (maybe 2 years ago), I started watching knowing that it
was elected as the #1 movie of all time, here in IMDb, but even though
I was not expecting too much, I'm now a huge fan of it! I totally
recommend, worthy watching! ;)

******
11 December 2015
10
And I truly mean that. When I first saw this film, I was blown
away.With superb acting, superb story, perfect emotion and tone, and an
incredible twist ending that still amazes me, this film is completely
and utterly perfect. The film speaks of hope, and the film's two main
characters debate throughout the movie about it. One character believes
that, in prison, hope is dangerous, and that it should not be used
because it will simply make life tougher. Another character believes
that hope is needed, because it helps you to keep pushing for a better
tomorrow when one does not appear to be in sight. While very engaging and immensely entertaining, this film would not be
held to such high regards if not for the twist ending, which is one of
the greatest movie endings of all time, in my opinion. If the ending is
merely average, this film would simply be considered good, possibly
great, but not the masterpiece that it is today. And, watching it
repeatedly makes the film even better, because experiencing the events
that occur within the story makes the ending even greater. I can't speak for everybody, but this is a film that I can watch over
and over again, and love it more each time I watch it. And, while I
simply talked about the ending this entire review, that is not all that
makes this film incredible. However, I will not waste any more of your
time talking about how wonderful this film is. And please do not waste
any of your own time. Find a way to see this movie as ASAP. It will be
time well spent, and you will certainly see it multiple more times.

******
11 December 2015
8
This movie has stayed with me for several years after watching. And
although its not my sort of genre.. it did deliver.If you haven't watched this movie yet, i suggest not reading up on it
and just go in blank for the best result. The story is just overall
great and the casting is top notch. It really pulls you in and thats
saying a lot for someone who has watched so many movies like me. So my
recommendation is to load up on drinks and snacks before hitting the
Play button.After seeing this movie i searched for movies with the actors that
shined in this one. But even they deliver mostly in all their films,
its never like their performance in this.The only reason im not giving a straight 10 is simply because of my way
of rating. But if this was my sort of genre it would have been a
straight ten! So overall, a must see movie.

******
8 December 2015
9
That movie was pretty chill. I loved the story and the shots were
amazing. The lighting on the dudes face was beautiful. I also likd the
screenplay. If there is any movie out there, I would choose to show my
kids this one. The death at the end was very intense. I cried at the
part with the dragon. If there is ever a time when u see a dragon, Take
a pic and share it and run away. Shawshank should have won awards. If I
love this movie, I am cool I want to meet the director.y movie out
there, I would choose to show my kids this one. The death at the end
was very intense. I cried at the part with the dragon. If there is ever
a timey movie out there, I would choose to show my kids this one. The
death at the end was very intense. I cried at the part with the dragon.
If there is ever a time

******
27 November 2015
9
No wonder this movie is currently highest ranked on IMDb. It has a
fantastic story line, great actors, and it triggers all of the
emotions. It is also one of those movies that will(should) never get a forced
sequel because it is fine as it is. I guess a well-made TV remake
wouldn't be bad, but I think this type of plot has been covered enough.The other day I was with a group of friends and we were discussing
several great movies. I was surprised to find out that there are still
millennials who have not seen this! If you haven't seen it yet, make a
plan and go watch it. You will not be disappointed.

******
25 November 2015
10
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story
about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than
a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk
about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom.
Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and
Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other.
Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment
they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful
performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.He shines when it is his time to go back into the world, only to find
that the world grew up so fast he never even got a chance to blink.
Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and
excitement. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking
about in 50 or 100 years.

******
19 November 2015
10
I am at a loss of words to describe the greatness of this film, and by
all means I give full credit to the book that it is an adaptation of.Half way through the film I began to enjoy the capabilities of the man
and begin to see all that as the point of the film, but then it slows
down in pace a bit (for the final "assault") and I end up asking myself
the purpose of it all, but then the ending leaves me speechless!This film, alongside the Bollywood biopic 'Manjhi - The Mountain Man'
(2015), are two great examples of the fact how time is of little value
when there are no better alternatives to achieve your goal. Often in
our life we deny to take certain steps which might help us in achieving
a goal in some years, but exactly after spending as much time sitting
mum, we reflect on the time spent and regret not having taken those
steps in all these years.A maternal cousin of mine from Denmark visited us in the summer of 2012
and he mentioned this film in a lot of conversation. Sadly, I wasn't
too much into Hollywood films yet. Now that I am since over 15 months I
checked the IMDb list of top 250 films and found this on the first
place. I was immediately reminded of my cousin and thought that he
wasn't after all just randomly naming a film. It was very clever to have shown Andy as innocent. This makes the
viewers get more engaged into his suffering in the prison. The scene
where he goes to his room with the rope, you almost find yourself
saying in heart how this will be great injustice and something very,
very sad and depressing.Again, all in all, this film is out of this world. One of the best of
all times.

******
18 November 2015
8
A little anal rape and before you know it, you've made a martyr of a
man. Good martyr though, except that he stays alive through out the
entire movie. Well told in classic Morgan Freeman style but Shawshank
redemption, whilst being a very fine example of Cinema, is lacking in
much. It is very tense and dramatic but simple in it's premise,
innocent man will escape from jail. In between are an abundance of
clichées and well used jail house scenarios, as seen in many other lock
up romps. The difference with Shawshank is how polished everything is.
It's not a surprise when Frank Darabont is behind a helm. He has proved
to cast well and have perfect characters execute a story to the most
professional of levels. I think that the movie would have been better if they had been
following Red and Andy get's busted when Red comes meets him in the
sandy finale. Maybe executed by FBI and Red was involved in the sting
operation. you may not agree.

******
16 November 2015
10
The best so far I watched this movie when I was a kid and still the
best for me The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman),
who has been inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time
and is its leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need:
cigarettes, candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist
might use. One day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest busload
of prisoners unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their
first night in prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy
named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy
turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him
is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing
seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for
murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details
involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality;
all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who
is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes
up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his
term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been
rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out
of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that
he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills
himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on
the outside.one of the greatest :)

******
16 November 2015
10
Whenever this movie comes on I have to watch it and I love it every
time. This movie is not a depressing movie overall and even though
there are sad moments in the movie; there is also has a lot of humor
about life as well. The warmth in the friendship that builds up between
Andy and Red is what make this movie so great. There is even excitement
and suspense, although not when we expect it. But mostly the film is an
allegory about holding onto a sense of personal worth, despite
everything. The redemption and friendship theme of this movie is what
makes it easy for us all to easily identify with these characters and
evoke such emotions while we watch for the first time or the 20th +
times you see it Like myself.

******
15 November 2015
7
There's always something you missed the last time, when seeing it
again. "Redemption" is near....and the messages and themes in this
movie are powerfully moving! Morgan Freeman has made himself quite
known (as we already know) in the movie industry...and particularly for
films that "touch." I don't recall a single movie I've seen with him in
which he didn't either win some kind of award/nomination/word of praise
for, and that speaks highly to the great quality of his work........ He
is talented and has a special gift for touching people's hearts and
empowering/influencing/captivating audiences worldwide. It's not only
his persona, but his way of speaking plus his background and upraising.

******
15 November 2015
10
This 1994 classic is my favorite movie of all times. surprised it was
not picked for any major Oscars. The acting from Tim Robins is superb
as well as Morgan Freeman's acting and narrating. The supporting cast
are all above average in their performance, though nothing to hail in
any large degree. The story has a clear flow through out the movie. The
Hero (Tim Robins)has to overcome his demons from the start. His end
goal is to be in peace with himself. to sum the movie up its a some
what a count of Monte Kristo story. instead of getting out to get
revenge, the hero accepts his destinations and battles his
inner-demons.

******
15 November 2015
10
You get busy living or you get busy dying. The phrase that came out of
Andy Defruense mouth were legendary. I read the book a year ago in my
high school and it compared nothing to the movie. The few times in this
life the movie was better than the book. There wasn't much of a
cinematic feel, no artsy angles or vibrant colors. It was an analogy to
a man trapped inside of an inartistic world set free by prison. Again,
it is not artsy but it is one of the greatest stories ever told. The
first time viewing this movie, i believed it to drag on, but i watched
it again and again, loving it more and more every time. It is a
surprise it never got an Oscar.

******
13 November 2015
10
This film is 10/10 best movie inspired me a lot, I enjoyed it a lot
This film was good I just want to say WATCH THIS FILM! I have a lot to
say about it really. what can I say it was just amazing. it has lots of
good people in it. I enjoyed it all. trust me it was good film. This
film is 10/10 best movie inspired me a lot, I enjoyed it a lot This
film was good I just want to say WATCH THIS FILM! I have a lot to say
about it really. what can I say it was just amazing. it has lots of
good people in it. I enjoyed it all. trust me it was good film.This
film is 10/10 best movie inspired me a lot, I enjoyed it a lot This
film was good I just want to say WATCH THIS FILM! I have a lot to say
about it really. what can I say it was just amazing. it has lots of
good people in it. I enjoyed it all. trust me it was good film. This
film is 10/10 best movie inspired me a lot, I enjoyed it a lot This
film was good I just want to say WATCH THIS FILM! I have a lot to say
about it really. what can I say it was just amazing. it has lots of
good people in it. I enjoyed it all. trust me it was good film.

******
11 November 2015
10
One of the best movies I have ever seen. I love Stephen King, and I am
always excited to see one of his books turned into a movie. Shawshank
Redemption is an classic, a movie that everyone should watch. I loved
the chemistry between the two main actors. For people who have not read
the book (but also for the book lovers) the movie will be an exciting
experience till the last scene.Even now, after more than 20 years,
modern movies cannot be compared to this one. Morgan Freeman is as
always excellent. U get an mix of emotions watching Shawshank
redemption. You feel sad, happy, compassionate, all at the same time
for prisoners... Brooks as a character and his story-line broke my
heart and i still feel the sadness for this character.

******
11 November 2015
10
In this fantastic movie people who was innocent figure out himself to
be free man.And people who can't afford to live without friends and
strong enough to be fixed with world.The man who tried to get back his
life.The only word for this movie was powerful.Prisoners were need to
get help from us .To survive in the wild world you have to
strong.Morgan Freeman has excellent skills.Director was the best of
times over the years.However it was deserved to win Oscar.The people
who made this movie were be memorial.This will make your mind to think
about life and people who are fighting for their lives.Great thanks for
letting me to be watched this movie.Good for us to take the time of
feeling.

******
9 November 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption movie is about importance of liberty in life.
The movie is about how well you can hold your nerves and patiently
waits and tries for freedom. It shows the value of a skilled person,
how a person if he is perfect and smart in his skill can turn the
things and earns differently more, than others. Not only skills but if you rejects pessimism and keep aspiration in
darkest and toughest stages in your life and have ability to create and
find happiness from the little things you have by making friends,
helping others by using your mastery and constantly keeping your
efforts to reach to your destination. You will sooner see dawn of
success.The movie is really well made and I couldn't find any lack or part
which bored me, from start to an end, it's an out and out interesting
and engaging to watch. Leading actors' tremendous performances are
really countable and strong reason in success of this movie. Highly
recommended for everyone.

******
8 November 2015
9
This is by far the best prison movie ever. The movie has everything a
movie in this genre needs and it all blends together perfectly, a bit
like the industry decided to release a "best of" record and this was
the result. One of the movies greatest strength is it's balance; it
doesn't deny the miserable conditions inside a prison while not taking
advantage of it, and despite the sorrow it is nothing but a feel good
movie.Tim Robbins as well as Morgon Freeman are doing an excellent job
portraying their characters and the prison environment is displayed
with excellence. It is easy placing your self in that prison and it
routines.Despite my love for the movie I can't say I agree with it's #1 ranking
on IMDb, but it most simply be due to the fact that people can't find
anything they dislike about it.

******
6 November 2015
9
Great movie!I remember watching it as a kid and not really
understanding the concept and angle that the directors and crew were
trying to make. I watched it again in high school a few years ago (More
like 8) and totally got the concept! My top 5 favorite movie of all
time. I think I might actually go watch it again now before my huge
audition tomorrow. I can't think of anything that I can compare this
movie to. Its gained its own identity with me and I think anyone who
hears the title would understand exactly what I was talking about
seeing as though its one of the top movies of all time. If there could
be a second make to the movie I would love to be a part of it!
Hopefully kids today would take the time to watching such a great movie
and understand what it means to be an actor! These guys put this
together well.

******
4 November 2015
10
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
3 November 2015
10
An amazing story, great cast and incredible acting. I saw this film for the first time this year, and have seen it twice
more since.An incredible story, told extraordinarily well. Gripping, exciting and
satisfying.What more is there to add? This film isn't top of the list of the
highest rated movies on IMDb for nothing!If you haven't seen this movie, make it top of your list. If you have
already seen it, it's probably about time you saw it again anyway,
right?10/10

******
3 November 2015
10
This movie has everything in it hope, betrayal, fear you name it. I've
seen many movies over the years, many excellent films. However, every
time I see a movie I compare every movie with this one and consider it
whether its a great movie or a flop one so "The Shawshank Redemption"
is my metric to measure every other movie. The message this movie gives
is so strong that it will change the way you make your decisions why if
you are wondering ? then its because every moment of this movie will
inspire you to believe in HOPE. The tagline of this movie fits
perfectly "FEAR can hold you prisoner. HOPE can set you free.". So if
you are still deciding whether to watch this movie or not don't WAIT!!!
go get this movie and watch it immediately its one of those movies that
you watch it before you DIE

******
1 November 2015
9
Great movie and highly recommended for anyone seeking a Monte Cristo
type story. Set up for murder. Sent to prison for life. Agony and
loneliness is evident. Found life thru knowledge for education. Friends
and loyalties were made. Hope came and was squashed. That leads to
anger and action. Friends worry without knowledge of future of
protagonist. Hope is obtained for more than just the protagonist. Great
for people whom like; biographies, emotional, male bonding, facing
obstacles, seeking hope of the future, prison life, life building
skills, justice prevailing, getting even with those whom treat people
horribly, creating something good in a bad situation.

******
1 November 2015
10
The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest busload of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods. But Andy
does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy turns out
to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him is such a
powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing seems to
break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for murder.
He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details involving
his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality; all that
counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who is not --
and the measured passage of time.

******
1 November 2015
10
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
30 October 2015
9
In 1947 Portland, Maine, banker Andy Dufresne is convicted of murdering
his wife and her lover and sentenced to two consecutive life sentences
at the fictional Shawshank State Penitentiary in rural Maine. Andy
befriends prison contraband smuggler, Ellis "Red" Redding, an inmate
serving a life sentence. Red procures a rock hammer and later a large
poster of Rita Hayworth for Andy. Working in the prison laundry, Andy
is regularly assaulted by the "bull queer" gang "the Sisters" and their
leader, Bogs.In 1949, Andy overhears the brutal captain of the guards, Byron Hadley,
complaining about being taxed on an inheritance, and offers to help him
legally shelter the money. After a vicious assault by the Sisters
nearly kills Andy, Hadley beats Bogs severely. Bogs is sent to another
prison and Andy is never attacked again. Warden Samuel Norton meets
Andy and reassigns him to the prison library to assist elderly inmate
Brooks Hatlen. Andy's new job is a pretext for him to begin managing
financial matters for the prison employees. As time passes, the Warden
begins using Andy to handle matters for a variety of people including
guards from other prisons and the warden himself. Andy begins writing
weekly letters to the state government for funds to improve the
decaying library.In 1954, Brooks is paroled, but cannot adjust to the outside world
after fifty years in prison and hangs himself. Andy receives a library
donation that includes a recording of The Marriage of Figaro. He plays
an excerpt over the public address system, resulting in him receiving
solitary confinement. After his release from solitary Andy explains
that hope is what gets him through his time, a concept that Red
dismisses. In 1963, Norton begins exploiting prison labor for public
works, profiting by undercutting skilled labor costs and receiving
kickbacks. He has Andy launder the money using the alias Randall
Stephens.In 1965, Tommy Williams is incarcerated for burglary. He joins Andy's
and Red's circle of friends, and Andy helps him pass his G.E.D. exam.
In 1966, Tommy reveals to Red and Andy that an inmate at another prison
claimed responsibility for the murders Andy was convicted of, implying
Andy's innocence. Andy approaches Norton with this information, but the
warden refuses to listen and sends Andy back to solitary when he
mentions the money laundering. Norton then has Hadley murder Tommy
under the guise of an escape attempt. Andy refuses to continue the
money laundering, but relents after Norton threatens to burn the
library, remove Andy's protection from the guards, and move him out of
his cell into worse conditions. Andy is released from solitary
confinement after two months and tells Red of his dream of living in
Zihuatanejo, a Mexican coastal town. Red feels Andy is being
unrealistic, but promises Andy that if he is ever released he will
visit a specific hayfield near Buxton, Maine and retrieve a package
Andy buried there. Red becomes worried about Andy's state of mind,
especially when he learns Andy asked another inmate to supply him with
six feet of rope.The next day at roll call the guards find Andy's cell empty. An irate
Norton throws a rock at the poster of Raquel Welch hanging on the wall,
and the rock tears through the poster. Removing the poster, the warden
discovers a tunnel that Andy dug with his rock hammer over the last
seventeen years, hidden by posters of starlets Andy acquired from Red
over the years. The previous night, Andy escaped through the tunnel and
used the prison's sewage pipe to reach freedom, bringing with him
Norton's suit, shoes, and the ledger containing details of the money
laundering. While guards search for him the following morning, Andy
poses as Randall Stephens and visits several banks to withdraw the
laundered money. Finally, he mails the ledger and evidence of the
corruption and murders at Shawshank to a local newspaper. The police
arrive at Shawshank and take Hadley into custody, while Norton commits
suicide to avoid arrest.After serving forty years, Red is finally paroled. He struggles to
adapt to life outside prison and fears he never will. Remembering his
promise to Andy, he visits Buxton and finds a cache containing money
and a letter asking him to come to Zihuatanejo. Red violates his parole
and travels to Fort Hancock, Texas to cross the border to Mexico,
admitting he finally feels hope. On a beach in Zihuatanejo, he finds
Andy, and the two friends are happily reunited.

******
28 October 2015
9
Loved this movie! Great story, amazing and remediable characters. The
Plot keeps you guessing, I was on the edge of my seat the whole time I
watch it!Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give performances that will knock your
socks off! There on screen friendship makes me weep for something as
close and meaningful in everyday life. This is a movie to watch on a
rainy day, with a big bucket of pop corn and a cold soda. As time goes
on this movie will stand the test of time, it will be considered a
classic, up their with greats like Brian's song, or the lethal weapons
franchise.

******
28 October 2015
9
When I was a teenager, I read a book called Different Seasons which, at
the time, was a series of short stories by a man named Richard Bachman.Richard Bachman, as it turns out, was actually Stephen King.King was apparently worried that having his name on this book would
cause people to have preconceived notions and possibly judge the work
by his name alone, rather than by it's contents.Among the short stories in this book was one titled, Rita Hayworth and
the Shawshank Redemption, on which the film was based.There are a lot of memorable characters and happenings throughout, and
in the center of all of them is Andy Dufresne, who was accused of
killing his wife for sleeping with a golf pro at the local country
club.Andy claims he is innocent, but is convicted and sent to prison for the
murder.This film does a very good job of staying true to the story, with only
a few minor changes that do not effect the outcome.Without giving too much away, I will just say that this film is the
highest rated on IMDb for a reason. It is about so many different
things that it would take some time to list them, would have to contain
spoilers and would not do the film justice.This movie will elicit many different emotions and is definitely worth
the viewing.

******
28 October 2015
9
A Very Good Movie To Watch............. I have never seen such an
amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank
encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so
great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even
though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are
quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the
characters are going through.This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick. It has a great and
deep message. This movie has a foundation and just kept on being built
on from their and that foundation is hope.Finally Hope is key to being Alive.............

******
27 October 2015
9
The story of a one common man caught in circumstances creates an
atmosphere which makes a viewer on the edge of seat. Stellar direction
and acting. Morgan Freeman is a great performer who has shown the way a
human being can excel in his endeavor. The film is an all time
excellence in all departments of Film Making be it Editing, Sound,
Direction, Production Values, Art Design, Sets & Costumes. The story
line is the crux of the film where it takes a 180 degree turn and we
see something which is beyond our expectation. The casting of this film
along with top line & bottom line artists is well planned. The
background music score is excellent. Out of the top 100 films I rate
this as the best.

******
26 October 2015
9
best movie ever, i have watched more than 100 times :), wonderful cast,
spectacular performance by freeman, and very strong story, and love for
life an to survive an revenge for him self from the master of the place
.best movie ever, i have watched more than 100 times :), wonderful
cast, spectacular performance by freeman, and very strong story, and
love for life an to survive an revenge for him self from the master of
the place best movie ever, i have watched more than 100 times :),
wonderful cast, spectacular performance by freeman, and very strong
story, and love for life an to survive an revenge for him self from the
master of the place best movie ever, i have watched more than 100 times
:), wonderful cast, spectacular performance by freeman, and very strong
story, and love for life an to survive an revenge for him self from the
master of the place

******
25 October 2015
10
Awesome movie, great performances, great script. One of the greatest
films of all time and an spectacular work by Frank Darabont. The main
reason i get into Stephen King work and movies based upon his work.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman will endure in time as one of the most
beloved prisoners cinema has ever had.Score is awesome.If you watch this movie there is no way you wont star fall in love with
cinema or life or else.This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared
it long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability. Darabont
shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and
production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce
art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life
and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-
needed breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of
film. It proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and
still bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.

******
24 October 2015
10
What else to write about The Shawshank Redemption that haven't been
written before? I usually like action movies and comedies and this
movie has no comedy and no action. The movie was filmed by Stephen
Kings novel so it has to be great. The story is set in 1947y Portland,
Maine where a banker is is sentenced to two consecutive life sentences
for murdering his wife and her lover. He will meet all sort of
characters in side the prison good and bad, from inmates with good hart
to sadistic prison guards. It is not a strange that The Shawshank
Redemption is number one on the IMDb's top 250 list because there is no
other place for this movie. I highly recommend seeing this great movie
to everyone who haven't yet watched it.

******
23 October 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is, simply put, a perfect movie. It speaks to
the quality of Stephen King's writing that it was adapted into what is,
in my opinion, a beautiful movie.From the start of the movie all the way to the end, the main characters
have our full sympathy as they bond in prison. There is also lingering
curiosity- is Andy actually guilty?Andy, above all, is a likable character. We're cheering him on the
whole way. This is not to understate Morgan Freeman's breakout
performance as Red, the narrator. His voice gives the film power, of
which it had plenty already.And more than anything else, it is a movie about the triumph of the
human spirit, even when the deck is stacked against and the odds are a
million to one. The challenges faced by the main characters only make
the ending of the film all the more meaningful.The ending is, of course, beautiful. I won't go into too much detail in
the name of avoiding spoilers, but I will way that if you haven't seen
this movie, you absolutely should.

******
23 October 2015
8
Shawshank Redemption is,in my opinion,one of the best movies of all
time.One scene is nagging:how was Andy able to re-position the Rita
Hayworth poster after he slipped into the tunnel and escaped?Shawshank Redemption is,in my opinion,one of the best movies of all
time.One scene is nagging:how was Andy able to re-position the Rita
Hayworth poster after he slipped into the tunnel and escaped?Shawshank Redemption is,in my opinion,one of the best movies of all
time.One scene is nagging:how was Andy able to re-position the Rita
Hayworth poster after he slipped into the tunnel and escaped?Shawshank Redemption is,in my opinion,one of the best movies of all
time.One scene is nagging:how was Andy able to re-position the Rita
Hayworth poster after he slipped into the tunnel and escaped?Shawshank Redemption is,in my opinion,one of the best movies of all
time.One scene is nagging:how was Andy able to re-position the Rita
Hayworth poster after he slipped into the tunnel and escaped?Shawshank Redemption is,in my opinion,one of the best movies of all
time.One scene is nagging:how was Andy able to re-position the Rita
Hayworth poster after he slipped into the tunnel and escaped?

******
23 October 2015
10
Whenever I see a movie that takes place in prison I feel sorry for the
characters, as they must go through difficult and dramatic situations.
But rarely I seen in this kind of movie the instinct of freedom, that
grabs the viewer and holds it to the expectation of how the story will
end. Although there are difficult situations, there is also good ones
who manage to balance coexistence, and makes the film not be so
dramatic. I think that for a film to succeed, the principal actors must
have good chemistry to demonstrate the talents in their performances,
and the chemistry between Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins is
unsurpassed.It's a great film, well directed and the performances are flawless.

******
23 October 2015
10
I had this movie in my laptop for 3 years and I didn't watched...One
day I found it in IMDb at the top..so decided to watch..and it made me
watch more than 20 times...No doubt why it remains at the top...It gave
every elements for a great movie...and what can I say about the twists
in the movie...that moment when he escaped from the jail..it takes the
film to another level beyond imagination...it gave the film the right
pace...how can we forget Morgan Freeman...realistic actor...its a must
watch movie before you die...Exceptional movie..brilliant
direction..extra ordinary casting...superb script...and what else it
need..! Definitely a pure Classic in all terms...!!

******
21 October 2015
8
this is my 2nd film review and i hope i do better. this is a great film
i own this movie and its in my top 30 having Morgan Freeman in the
movie is the best i love his movies and that's one reason i love this
film. the film is so good my friends watches this movie over and over
again. its so great. it gets annoying though but they like it and so do
i. Morgan Freeman is a great actor and i respect him and in in this
movie he played the friend of an odd man a great man. what can i say
about this movie i love the movie as i wrote and the characters are
great and so are the actors.and that is about it i cant say anything
else. apart from why i gave it an 8 is because i think it could have
been greater.

******
21 October 2015
10
Having watched it too many times, I still find myself thrilled and
touched by it. I do not see it as a film "made in prison" but more like
"in life". It is the strength underneath that makes you what you are.
Sometimes it needs more than a good director, a writer or an effective
cast to create a masterpiece. "The Shawshank Redemption", for me, has
it all! ... First Morgan Freeman and then Tim Robbins, push us towards
a world made of realism, darkness, acceptance and redemption, and
finally victory over those who believe that power over other people
makes them powerful... such a joke indeed. I really believe that one
must watch this film at least one time. There will be much to learn.

******
20 October 2015
8
I've seen this with my grandparents countless times (mostly because
when it's on TV, they don't even budge to change the channel, which I
never minded) & even to this day, I still enjoy it. It's not THE
GREATEST FILM I EVER SEEN/SAW but it's so good and every time I watch
it, I still cry. It's this film and The Green Mile that enjoyMorgan Freeman aka God Tim Robbins aka Susan Sarandon's ex bar give
great, fantastic performances.Sorry this review is short or unworthy to be read, but I can't really
explain my review without gushing over it, but I recommend it to anyone
willing to watch

******
20 October 2015
10
its a movie on prison break. we all seen the season prison break. it
has 3 seasons. but, this movie has only 2 hrs. classic movie. i rated
10/10. i also like escape plan which is also on prison break. but this
movie is different. i like this movie very much. director feel us hero
was not guilty so he comes out from prison...and live his life
happily...with his friend in prison.... i listed this movie in must
seen movies before you die...see my list...."MUST SEEN MOVIES BY
MANDLI"and......also...a note.. i write this review this long and long
because review says "your review does not contain enough lines -the
minimum length for reviews is 10 lines of text

******
18 October 2015
9
One of my early experiences with a non supernatural Stephen King
movie/Short Story. A Great prison movie with a full ensemble top line
cast and every character had something. With each point of the film was waiting to see who was going to be
around until the end. It was a departure to see a King story without
beasts or ghosts in it. And how a lot of the characters were developed
throughout the film.And the last moments of the film which I will need to see again, to
check things out for myself and to speculate if I missed those details
myself.

******
18 October 2015
9
This movie really good to watch for a movie maniac.Although the film is set in Maine, the Ohio State Reformatory in
Mansfield, Ohio stood in for Shawshank Prison. The structure was slated
to be torn down, but the production delayed its demolition for a year.
After the film wrapped, all the buildings in the complex were torn down
except the cell block and main administrative building, which were
preserved for historical purposes.Castle Rock Entertainment, the production company that made The
Shawshank Redemption, was co-founded by Stand By Me director Rob Reiner
and is named after the mythical Maine town that provides the setting
for many of King's books. After director Frank Darabont pitched The
Shawshank Redemption to Castle Rock, Reiner originally offered $2.5
million for the script to star Tom Cruise as Andy Dufresne and Harrison
Ford as Red.

******
18 October 2015
10
Hands Down The Best Movie I Have Ever Seen... Shocked By The Ending....
Deserves 10/10 First I Thought The Movie Was Not That Good As Its A
Flop Movie, But When I Watched It I Honestly Gotta say The best movie
made till now. Their are certain moments when u get bored but the
ending totally changes the way u thinking. Morgan Freeman is at its
best. Tim Robbins is the master of the movie And no word for the warden
he is too good Truly a masterpiece. Amazing movie, one of my three
favorites! I could watch it 100 times and it would never get old.
Though there is a couple of scenes with violence and sexual dialogue.
Language throughout.

******
16 October 2015
10
have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie copied

******
11 October 2015
9
Can Hollywood, usually creating things for entertainment purposes only,
create art? To create something of this nature, a director must
approach it in a most meticulous manner, due to the delicacy of the
process. Such a daunting task requires an extremely capable artist with
an undeniable managerial capacity and an acutely developed awareness of
each element of art in their films, the most prominent; music, visuals,
script, and acting. These elements, each equally important, must
succeed independently, yet still form a harmonious union, because this
mixture determines the fate of the artist's opus. Though already well
known amongst his colleagues for his notable skills at writing and
directing, Frank Darabont emerges with his feature film directorial
debut, The Shawshank Redemption. Proving himself already a master of
the craft, Darabont managed to create one of the most recognizable
independent releases in the history of Hollywood. The Shawshank
Redemption defines a genre, defies the odds, compels the emotions, and
brings an era of artistically influential films back to Hollywood.The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.By creating the film's firm foundation, the meticulously chiseled
screenplay paved the way for this film's success. Frank Darabont
outdoes himself with the phenomenal adaptation of Stephen King's
equally noteworthy novella, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. In
this novella, King demonstrates that he can break free from the genre
he dominates and still create a marvelous piece of modern literature.
Though the film mirrors the novella in many ways, Darabont illustrates
a focused objective of improving upon the areas where the novella came
up short, resulting in one of the best book to film transitions ever.While maintaining some of the poetic and moving dialogue of the
novella, Darabont also proves that a film's score can generate a great
deal of emotional response from its audience, as dialogue does. He
employs the cunning Thomas Newman, son of the legendary Hollywood
composer, Alfred Newman. Darabont shows recognition for the film's
needs by employing Newman, who makes the gentle piano chords whisper
softly to the viewer, as if a part of the scripted dialogue. Newman
lends himself to individualism and tends to drive more towards the
unique in the realm of score composition. His effort in Shawshank did
not go unnoticed, as his score received an Oscar nomination in 1995.
While unique and independent, Newman's score never once intrudes on
your concentration or distracts from the film.With work from vast array of talented scene designers, costume
designers, composers, cinematographers, and various other Hollywood
artists, the cast of The Shawshank Redemption had a strong foundation
to work with. The marvelous cast of this film will dazzle you with some
of the most convincing performances you will witness in a film. While
both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman shine as Andy and Red,
respectively, the true spectacle of acting lies within the plethora of
amazing supporting actors who easily disappear into their roles. Most
noticeable of these, the veteran film star James Whitmore, who portrays
the elderly Brooks Hatlen. Brooks, a man incarcerated for an
unmentioned crime for so long that he finds himself attached to the
Shawshank and the daily life he has lead. Each of these actors show a
true dedication to their art, and a focused purpose in their
motivations, creating a convincing setting that never once caters to
anything unbelievable.With all of the aesthetic touches and attention to cinematic detail,
the most beautiful part of the film lies within its thematic material,
such as its focus on the human desires for the most abstract concepts,
like hope and freedom. These themes, which concern things the human
spirit undoubtedly yearns for, seem so intricately woven into the plot
that it easily draws its audience in to its story. Though full of
hardened criminals, your heart will go out to these men as they display
the most basic of human emotions, and deliver some of the most quotable
lines in a film to date. Like a great novel, this film manages to
succeed at greater things than simply entertaining an audience.
Darabont tells his story most masterfully, illustrating principles and
inspiring his audience to think. He leaves us a poignant film with a
powerful message of hope, and redemption, something we all seek.This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared
it long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability. Darabont
shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and
production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce
art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life
and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-
needed breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of
film. It proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and
still bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.

******
10 October 2015
10
20 years ago in college, the students dropped out due to encounter,
depressed, so watch the movie together, the film Andy's experience,
giving not give up, and give courage, the moment there is a way to face
everything is every 20 years, whenever difficulties, think of Andy, and
the courage to face the deep impact of the film, no wonder it can be
used as the first 100 big movie !! In any case, people who have not
seen the movie, is a loss, almost every year to re-read once, often
have a harvest.Whether the movie is a great story, and the music class,
acting class, almost can not find a picky.The movie can be said is a
classic classic inside, almost never heard of people do not like this
movie.

******
10 October 2015
10
Can Hollywood, usually creating things for entertainment purposes only,
create art? To create something of this nature, a director must
approach it in a most meticulous manner, due to the delicacy of the
process. Such a daunting task requires an extremely capable artist with
an undeniable managerial capacity and an acutely developed awareness of
each element of art in their films, the most prominent; music, visuals,
script, and acting. These elements, each equally important, must
succeed independently, yet still form a harmonious union, because this
mixture determines the fate of the artist's opus. Though already well
known amongst his colleagues for his notable skills at writing and
directing, Frank Darabont emerges with his feature film directorial
debut, The Shawshank Redemption. Proving himself already a master of
the craft, Darabont managed to create one of the most recognizable
independent releases in the history of Hollywood. The Shawshank
Redemption defines a genre, defies the odds, compels the emotions, and
brings an era of artistically influential films back to Hollywood.The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.By creating the film's firm foundation, the meticulously chiseled
screenplay paved the way for this film's success. Frank Darabont
outdoes himself with the phenomenal adaptation of Stephen King's
equally noteworthy novella, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. In
this novella, King demonstrates that he can break free from the genre
he dominates and still create a marvelous piece of modern literature.
Though the film mirrors the novella in many ways, Darabont illustrates
a focused objective of improving upon the areas where the novella came
up short, resulting in one of the best book to film transitions ever.

******
9 October 2015
10
Excellent film of the great director Frank Darabont. Strong acting.
Moderately inventive story, but not exactly unpredictable. A pleasantly
uplifting film, but don't expect a transformative experience. Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is a gangly young banker when he enters Maine's
fortress like Shawshank State Prison in 1946, accused of killing his
unfaithful wife and her lover. Though his protestations of innocence
don't carry much weight, his shy manner and decency does. Befriended by
Red (Morgan Freeman), a veteran con who is the prison fixer, he soon
draws a circle of other boyishly likable prisoners around him,
including William Sadler as a sweet-tempered thug and James Whitmore as
a cuddly old man who is the prison librarian. In a film that stands or
falls on the central character's amiability, Tim Robbins is loose and
effective, though the real performance here is from Morgan Freeman,
whose projected affection for his friend really determines how we feel
about him. Darabont's direction is precise and assured, without being
terribly imaginative.10/10

******
9 October 2015
9
From the beginning, the film seemed uninteresting, but after a few
episodes, it became clear to me that I see something that rightfully
occupies first place in the ranking of all the films in the history of
cinema! Just think: the film walked several millions (!) Of all the
other works and took his place of honor in the ranking. But leave a
rating. Just want to say that 'The Shawshank Redemption' struck me
deeply. Of course, the American cinema today - the best in the world,
no doubt about it, but quite difficult to call the film so deep as
those shot in the recent past (the same 'Forrest Gump', for example, or
'The Green Mile'). Undoubtedly, in modern times remove the masterpieces
'Philomena', 'Black Swan', 'The Imitation Game' - and other other
other, but this is something else :) In the same film lifted virtually
all the major themes in our lives: love, injustice in the world, the
power of friendship, the spirit of resistance, the possibility of a man
and his faith in life. And boundless hope. In my opinion, the most
important thing: the movie gives us hope and creates the soul boundless
sense, a kind of urge to life, to change, the desire for freedom ...
The actors performed their roles brilliantly! However, no one doubted
the Hollywood giants such as Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. Bob
Gunton, who plays cruel prison director - a devout and religious man
whose faith in God but does not prevent (rather the contrary) to be one
of the worst things in the world, also very memorable with his play.
The rest of the actors are also perfectly coped with their roles - all
performed at the highest level! Absolutely nothing to complain about -
and do not want to quibble. Surprisingly, as in the movie, where almost
everything is happening within the prison, where there is cruelty,
violence and hopelessness, all this combined with the finest things
such as hope, faith, love, friendship, willpower and strength of mind
Thanks to the skills ... director and all those who worked on the film,
it was possible to combine it all in perfect form, which makes an
indelible impression on the viewer. I think that these films make us
better and cleaner inside. We understand that we have one life - and
should appreciate it until we are given a great opportunity to live in
this land. To believe in a brighter future - and to do everything
possible to make it so it was. It is this thought and inspires our
hearts with this film ... ADVISE VIEW anyone and everyone! It
'musthave' for anyone who appreciates good films. 'The Shawshank
Redemption' is able to radically change the view of the world - and
that is why it is a masterpiece that truly deserves to stand in front
of all the movies ...

******
9 October 2015
10
great direction, excellent acting, soothing cinematography, thrilling
story and hopeful ending. true meaning of running out word i understood
after watching this brilliant classic movie. No action, no special
effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to each other. By
creating the film's firm foundation, the meticulously chiseled
screenplay paved the way for this film's success.Shawshank Redemption
is a very moving story about hope and the power of friendship. If you
haven't seen this movie, GO AND RENT IT NOW. You will not be
disappointed. It is positively the best movie of the '90's, and one of
my Top 3 of all time. This movie is a spectacle to move the mind, soul,
and heart. 10/10

******
8 October 2015
10
I'm gonna be honest, I'm just here to finish my profile. and if you
don't like this movie then go see a doctor. I'm gonna be honest, I'm
just here to finish my profile. and if you don't like this movie then
go see a doctor. I'm gonna be honest, I'm just here to finish my
profile. and if you don't like this movie then go see a doctor. I'm
gonna be honest, I'm just here to finish my profile. and if you don't
like this movie then go see a doctor. I'm gonna be honest, I'm just
here to finish my profile. and if you don't like this movie then go see
a doctor.I'm gonna be honest, I'm just here to finish my profile. and
if you don't like this movie then go see a doctor.I'm gonna be honest,
I'm just here to finish my profile. and if you don't like this movie
then go see a doctor.I'm gonna be honest, I'm just here to finish my
profile. and if you don't like this movie then go see a doctor.

******
7 October 2015
10
Shawshank has everything you need from a movie.Cinematography and direction, both combine to make the film something
unique.This is an engagingly simple, good-hearted film, with just enough
darkness around the edges to give contrast and relief to its glowingly
benign view of human nature.Freeman, a wonderful actor, both narrates this tale and anchors it with
his perfect playing.I read elsewhere this "if you don't love Shawshank, chances are you're
beyond redemption". Well I do agree completely.I never, ever, ever heard from a friend of mine who I recommended it
that he had not liked it.

******
7 October 2015
10
Shawshank has everything you need from a movie.Cinematography and direction, both combine to make the film something
unique.This is an engagingly simple, good-hearted film, with just enough
darkness around the edges to give contrast and relief to its glowingly
benign view of human nature.Freeman, a wonderful actor, both narrates this tale and anchors it with
his perfect playing.I read elsewhere this "if you don't love Shawshank, chances are you're
beyond redemption". Well I do agree completely.I never, ever, ever heard from a friend of mine who I recommended it
that he had not liked it.

******
6 October 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption (1994): Dir: Frank Darbont / Cast: Tim
Robbins, Morgan Freeman, James Whitmore, Bob Gunton, William Sadler:
Gripping film about finding refuge in a place of despair. Tim Robbins
plays banker Andy Dufresne in 1947, convicted of murdering his wife and
her lover. The verdict is not the issue, but rather his familiarizing
himself into routine life within prison walls. He faces the trials of
violent leering inmates but forms a bond with Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding,
played by Morgan Freeman. Redding can get things for a price and soon
Andy has items smuggled into his cell. Andy finds favor when his
banking comes into play and doing taxes for the corrupt Christian
warden and the guards. Andy is able to improve the library but
discovers a scheme by the warden that leaves him to his own devices
when proof of his innocence is sabotaged. Director Frank Darabont
paints the grim and depressing portrait of prison and populates it with
personalities struggling to exist within. Robbins is at his best as a
victim adapting and improving his circumstance before intelligence wins
out. Freeman is great as the humble and resourceful Redding. James
Whitmore plays aged librarian Brooks whose release leads to questions
regarding freedom verses existence. Bob Gunton is effective as the
ruthless warden. Redemption is freedom of mind and soul whether in
prison or in opportunity. Score: 10 / 10

******
3 October 2015
9
I haven't seen too many movies that I would rate a 10, but I had no
problems giving this one top score.Movie-making seems to be like golf; for a truly excellent game, ALL the
elements must come together. Everyone involved must have perfect
"form". Director, Darabont, must have been at the top of his game when
he put this gem together. Of course the actors were excellent; Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins seldom disappoint. The thing that makes this
movie exceptional is that Darabont coaxed the best performances out of
the supporting actors also. Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown were utterly
believable (and bad guys don't come much worse than them).The other essential ingredient for a successful movie is simple: It
must have a well thought out plot with a perfect beginning, middle and
end. So many movies fall over by getting at least one of these aspects
wrong. Not so with Shawshank Redemption. Just like Goldilocks said,
"This is just right!" Buy this one for your home collection because
you'll definitely want to see it again

******
1 October 2015
10
Nothing new to add that hasn't been said a million times.This movie is perfect, it deserves to be #1 on IMDb because nobody i've
ever met has not liked it.Unless you don't like hope. There are simply too many lines in this film to quote. I could go on
forever. Favorite scene of the film: When Andy turns the classical music on in
the courtyard. His face when he turns up the volume instead of turning
the music off is simply classic. His character is the film protagonist embodiment of the classic Invitus
poem by William Ernest Henley.

******
30 September 2015
10
One of my all time favorite movies. Although there's not much action,
the plot and acting pulled me in. Throughout the movie the suspense
keeps building and building with everything happening to Andy you just
feel bad for him. It all leads up to him escapping which he rightfully
deserves to.Clearly Tim Robins was devoted to his role as Andy Dufresne. The way he
stays in the same exact character through the whole movie is
impressive. He always has a mild composure with little outbursts of
anger and rage which I think he uses perfectly. Morgan Freeman as "Red"
was impressive as always. Taking almost the mentor role for Andy to
help him get through being in a jail until finally escapping.

******
30 September 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and
directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who is
sentenced to life in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife
and her lover despite his claims of innocence. During his time at the
prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, and
finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him
in his money laundering operation.Despite being a box office disappointment, the film received multiple
award nominations (including seven Oscar nominations) and outstanding
reviews from critics for its acting, story, and realism. It has since
been successful on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu- ray. It was
included in the American Film Institute's 100 Years...100 Movies 10th
Anniversary Edition.[3] It is now widely considered one of the best
films of all time.

******
29 September 2015
10
this movie is make guidelines to anyone to live this life in hope that
make you powerful and enthusiastic to make something for yourself and
who u live with ..... in brief awesome movie what makes u watch it over
and over again..! the prison is school of life but this movie makes u
love the person who was in prison because he know the meaning of
freedom and appreciate it however not all in prison are guilty but is
the circumstance and destiny what we should accept and get the useful
learn from it great decoration ... great actors.... great shot.... and
finally great direction if there is perfection in movie ... then i will
call that one perfect... thanks Morgan Freeman and Tim Robinson For
that master piece.

******
28 September 2015
10
I found it amazing and unique film , is the perfect movie and I do
another movie exceeded, the performances are great as are the actors
and producers which can be noticed that gave freedom to the director to
make the film as wanted why you can really see how the director planted
his idea in the movie and you can also notice the effort that used on
stage and in the locker room that gave a kind of reality to the film
which caused the people who saw they feel identified with the story and
characters. The actors act in the best possible way which gives it a
unique and memorable touch to the film and its characters which always
carry in our memory for its history in jail and obstacles by crossing
the characters.

******
28 September 2015
10
In this world, we come across adventures, thrillers, subtle, and cursed
times times man feels overwhelmed, mislead by his judgment. Digging
yourself out may be dirty, but from experience, it is rough and worth
it. "The Shawshank Redemption" carries weight through its entirety,
showing the viewer the strength a man must have to live in a normal
society, or rather one without freedom.This review does not reveal any spoilers but describes a couple
distinct factors. Respectfully, the plot must have been drawn out of a
poem written by Edgar Allen Poe, in my opinion. If you like crime,
suspense, or drama "The Shawshank Redemption" may suffice. In addition, this film causes for destruction of social class, yet
integrates wisdom with opportunity for success. Crawling through this
rough period of confinement, two men have met for a purpose. While
wisdom plays the man trusted into this society, wary of the system's
structure and smart to play it safe, opportunity specializes in gaining
trust, working to evolve like a stem to a tree, finding ways to set
himself free. Although, the men are not ready for everything this
prison has to offer. In return, the physical and mental strength both
men benefit Unlike many movies, "The Shawshank Redemption" perceives the pros and
cons of relationships with self and others, guising intentions,
efforts, and social class. The personalities of the men bond, and
though the hardship is exhausting, it is glorious.

******
27 September 2015
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty
-- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the
subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving
life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off
despair.The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest bus load of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy
turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him
is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing
seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for
murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details
involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality;
all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who
is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes
up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his
term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been
rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out
of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that
he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills
himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on
the outside.Red's narration of the story allows him to speak for all of the
prisoners, who sense a fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives
the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is
not violent, just formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob
Gunton), he is both a challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about
bookkeeping and tax preparation, and before long he's been moved out of
his prison job in the library and assigned to the warden's office,
where he sits behind an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's
ill-gotten gains. His fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes
and pension plans for most of the officials of the local prison system.There are key moments in the film, as when Andy uses his clout to get
some cold beers for his friends who are working on a roofing job. Or
when he befriends the old prison librarian (James Whitmore). Or when he
oversteps his boundaries and is thrown into solitary confinement. What
quietly amazes everyone in the prison -- and us, too -- is the way he
accepts the good and the bad as all part of some larger pattern than
only he can fully see.The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison
drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence,
riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason.
The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption, by Stephen King, which is quite unlike most of King's work.
The horror here is not of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that
flows from the realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have
unreeled in the same unchanging daily prison routine.The director, Frank Darabont, paints the prison in drab grays and
shadows, so that when key events do occur, they seem to have a life of
their own.Andy, as played by Robbins, keeps his thoughts to himself. Red, as
Freeman plays him, is therefore a crucial element in the story: His
close observation of this man, down through the years, provides the way
we monitor changes and track the measure of his influence on those
around him. And all the time there is something else happening, hidden
and secret, which is revealed only at the end."The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may
have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it,
and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There
is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But
mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal
worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a
sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption.

******
26 September 2015
9
This is, indeed, one of the greatest movies that have ever been made
and probably the best one out of all the adaptations of Stephen King's
novels. There were a few "mistakes", or perhaps just conscious
decisions, that annoyed me; I'm a purist in this and would always like
to see very literal and loyal movie adaptations of books, even if it
becomes on the expense of cinematography and, thus, makes it a "worse
movie" per say. Or, at least, as per what becomes of it as a standalone
product without any reference to the original source material. The
other thing that bugs me is that this movie, while an outstanding movie
in it's own right, is NOT deserving of the title of best movie on the
IMDb top 250 list in any manner, not even close.

******
26 September 2015
10
Undoubtedly, Shawshank Redemption is the greatest prison drama ever
made. Andy's life is turned upside-down when he is convicted of killing
his wife and send to the prison. He has to fight all the evils of the
society he was never trained for. He makes friends with Ellis Redding
and his bumpy journey in prison continues.Very few movies have the great combination of story, music and casting;
SR hits highs on all notes. Morgan Freeman gave his best performance as
Ellis Redding and his narration is one of the many reasons why this
movies is considered among the greatest.Favourite Quote : "... and when they put you in that cell, when those
bars slam home, that's when you know it's for real. A whole life blown
away in the blink of an eye. Nothing left but all the time in the world
to think about it."

******
25 September 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty
not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the
subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving
life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off
despair. The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who
has been inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and
is its leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need:
cigarettes, candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist
might use. One day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest of
prisoners unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first
night in prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy
turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him
is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing
seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for
murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details
involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality;
all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who
is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes
up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his
term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been
rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out
of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that
he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills
himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on
the outside.Red's narration of the story allows him to speak for all of the
prisoners, who sense a fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives
the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is
not violent, just formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob
Gunton), he is both a challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about
bookkeeping and tax preparation, and before long he's been moved out of
his prison job in the library and assigned to the warden's office,
where he sits behind an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's
ill-gotten gains. His fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes
and pension plans for most of the officials of the local prison system.There are key moments in the film, as when Andy uses his clout to get
some cold beers for his friends who are working on a roofing job. Or
when he befriends the old prison librarian (James Whitmore). Or when he
oversteps his boundaries and is thrown into solitary confinement. What
quietly amazes everyone in the prison -- and us, too -- is the way he
accepts the good and the bad as all part of some larger pattern than
only he can fully see.The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison
drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence,
riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason.
The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption, by Stephen King, which is quite unlike most of King's work.
The horror here is not of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that
flows from the realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have
unreeled in the same unchanging daily prison routine.The director, Frank Darabont, paints the prison in drab grays and
shadows, so that when key events do occur, they seem to have a life of
their own.Andy, as played by Robbins, keeps his thoughts to himself. Red, as
Freeman plays him, is therefore a crucial element in the story: His
close observation of this man, down through the years, provides the way
we monitor changes and track the measure of his influence on those
around him. And all the time there is something else happening, hidden
and secret, which is revealed only at the end."The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may
have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it,
and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There
is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But
mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal
worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a
sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption.

******
25 September 2015
10
The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest bus load of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy
turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him
is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing
seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for
murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details
involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality;
all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who
is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes
up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his
term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been
rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out
of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that
he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills
himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on
the outside.Red's narration of the story allows him to speak for all of the
prisoners, who sense a fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives
the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is
not violent, just formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob
Gunton), he is both a challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about
bookkeeping and tax preparation, and before long he's been moved out of
his prison job in the library and assigned to the warden's office,
where he sits behind an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's
ill-gotten gains. His fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes
and pension plans for most of the officials of the local prison system.There are key moments in the film, as when Andy uses his clout to get
some cold beers for his friends who are working on a roofing job. Or
when he befriends the old prison librarian (James Whitmore). Or when he
oversteps his boundaries and is thrown into solitary confinement. What
quietly amazes everyone in the prison -- and us, too -- is the way he
accepts the good and the bad as all part of some larger pattern than
only he can fully see.The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison
drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence,
riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason.
The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption, by Stephen King, which is quite unlike most of King's work.
The horror here is not of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that
flows from the realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have
unreeled in the same unchanging daily prison routine.The director, Frank Darabont, paints the prison in drab grays and
shadows, so that when key events do occur, they seem to have a life of
their own.Andy, as played by Robbins, keeps his thoughts to himself. Red, as
Freeman plays him, is therefore a crucial element in the story: His
close observation of this man, down through the years, provides the way
we monitor changes and track the measure of his influence on those
around him. And all the time there is something else happening, hidden
and secret, which is revealed only at the end."The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may
have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it,
and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There
is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But
mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal
worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a
sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption.

******
25 September 2015
10
Though I have seen many movies related to prison break or prison escape
but this movie has broken all records of how sophisticatedly a prisoner
can escape from a heavily guarded prison without anyone noticing.
Dufrene was innocent in his wife's brutal murder. But somehow his
innocence was unnoticed in the court and was found guilty and faced
back to back life sentences. Also the narrator and backbone of the
movie was Morgan Freeman. His unexceptional narration made the movie
even more fantastic. Overall, I just want to conclude that if this were
to release again, it would have broken all records and won many Oscars
again.

******
24 September 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt one of the most brilliant
movies I have ever seen. Similar to The Green Mile in many respects
(and better than it in almost all of them), these two movies have shown
us that Stephen King is a master not only of horror but also of prose
that shakes the soul and moves the heart. The plot is average, but King
did great things with it in his novella that are only furthered by the
direction, and the acting is so top-rate it's almost scary.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrane, wrongly imprisoned for 20 years for the
murder of his wife. The story focuses on Andy's relationship with "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman, in probably his best role) and his attempts to
escape from Shawshank. Bob Gunton is positively evil and frightening as
Warden Norton, and there are great performances and cameos all around;
the most prominent one being Gil Bellows (late as Billy of Ally McBeal)
as Tommy, a fellow inmate of Andy's who suffers under the iron will of
Norton.If you haven't seen this movie, GO AND RENT IT NOW. You will not be
disappointed. It is positively the best movie of the '90's, and one of
my Top 3 of all time. This movie is a spectacle to move the mind, soul,
and heart. 10/10

******
23 September 2015
10
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship.I have never seen such an
amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank
encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so
great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. The cast
is first rate with everyone giving a great performance. James
Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving.His
portrayal is one of the most saddest and realistic in any movie period.
The screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. It will truly be a unique
experience.

******
21 September 2015
10
as a die-hard king fan for 30 years, i have routinely been disappointed
in the movies based on his books. this is quite possibly the best movie
adaptation i've seen. overall, i was impressed with the performances of
all the characters. maybe the only thing i wasn't clear about or didn't understand was the
fact that some of the guards had accents that didn't seem to be
louisianian. the accents seemed to be more boston-ish. however, it has
been a while since i've read the books so maybe i'm forgetting a detail
or two.ultimately, i recommend this movie to any stephen king fan, and to
anyone in general! it's excellent!!

******
13 September 2015
9
This movie is the best movie ever for me ! He deserve the first place !
Story : "Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace
and eventual redemption through acts of common decency." -This short
story said everything about this movie, i liked all the personality,
specially the hero of the movie. The Director Frank Darabont he had
know how to play with all the personalities and their roles. So great
thank to him because he make a great movie. For the stars, "Tim
Robbins" he's my best actor all time ! 14 October 1994 is a special
day, so always remember it ! :D I liked everything about the movie,
even the Soundtracks. I think in our day we missed the movies such as
The Shawshank Redemption :(

******
9 September 2015
8
A movie worthy of the label, 'very good'  but being number one out of
all movies ever? No way, are you kidding me? One should go back to
snacking on those wacky mushrooms  please. Better yet let us all have
some, those hallucinations need to be shared by one and all. It was a
good movie...very good in fact. And without question, this is some
quality entertainment. I really did enjoy the one time I saw it. I have
to say though, I did not wet myself with glee when I watched the flick.
It just seemed like the plot was far-fetched and a bit tiresome. The
premise of good triumphing over evil is outstanding. It is too bad that
the action of defining good and evil is clearly sitting outside the
reality-room in 'Redemption.' 'Spoiler Alert' 'Spoiler Alert' Prison
guards = bad and hardened criminals = bad? Why? I can understand Tim
Robbins latching his wagon to this ridiculous notion  but Morgan
Freeman? Sorry it just doesn't compute. For me  a very good movie 
but not a great movie. I will give this "King" drama an 8/10

******
9 September 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption garnered widespread critical acclaim from
critics and has a "certified fresh" score of 91% on Rotten Tomatoes
based on 64 reviews with an average rating of 8.2 out of 10. The
critical consensus states "The Shawshank Redemption is an uplifting,
deeply satisfying prison drama with sensitive direction and fine
performances." [19] The film also has a score of 80 out of 100 on
Metacritic based on 19 critics indicating "generally favorable
reviews'.[20] It is currently rated an average of 9.3[21] out of 10 on
IMDb by almost 1.4 million voters making it the highest rated movie on
the website. The film has been critically acclaimed for depicting
Jean-Paul Sartre's ideas about existentialism more fully than any other
contemporary movie

******
8 September 2015
10
This is the best movie I have ever seen. There are so many lessons in
this movie. Somehow, all of those lessons are really necessary for
life. At least, I think so and I need them for my life. My habit is to
read quotes from movies. And from Shawshank Redemption, there are the
most quotes that I like. The movie has no special action or no
high-tech scene. However, it just smoothly flow. And also, it just
slowly makes me feel. Well, I think it worth for 10 point. Actually, I
am really lazy to type such kind of long preview like that. My
sentences are not good. My English is not good too. But I still try to
write this review because I like this movie very much.

******
6 September 2015
6
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a prison movie, a sub-genre all its own.
There are many fine movies in this group, movies that can be watched
again and again, such as "Brubaker", "Cool hand Luke", "Le Trou",
"Birdman of Alcatraz", "Escape from Alcatraz", "House of Numbers", "The
Big House", "The Criminal", "Under the Gun", "Convicted", "Each Dawn I
Die", "American Me", and many others. There are several hundred movies
in this category. "Shawshank" joins this group. It's different in some
ways that I'll mention below.As far as my tastes go, I will sooner be re-watching any number of
these other prison films than "Shawshank". The reason for this is its
mawkish and contrived quality. The story features a lot of narration by
Morgan Freeman, who is one of the main characters, about its hero, Tim
Robbins. Narration has to be used sparingly and craftily in any movie
so as not to make us viewers aware that we are watching a story and so
as not to prevent us from being drawn into the story. Since one
character is talking about another here and at quite some length, we
never forget that we're watching a story rather than being absorbed
into it. A good many of the actual events are rather black and white,
almost clichés, and this doesn't help either.I watched "The Shawshank Redemption" for the first time with no idea of
what it was about or very little idea of its great popularity. This
movie takes a decidedly anti-prison system view. That's a plus. The
warden is corrupt. The head guard and he conspire and commit an
outright murder, rather overdone I should say. The warden uses Robbins
as accountant for his money-looting schemes, which exposes him to what
Robbins might eventually do and exposes Robbins to danger of being
killed at some point. This is pretty far-fetched. Robbins improves the
lives of his fellow inmates by his appeals to the legislature. It seems
quite sentimentalized. Poor James Whitmore is let out after 50 years
and proceeds to hang himself. Who writes this stuff? Well, not that
it's so bad or even appears in other movies, but somehow it's all put
together here in such a way as to feel contrived, exaggerated and too
sentimental. The escape, a staple of many prison dramas, is not a big
focus here; it's rather rushed over. The path by which Freeman is led
to go see Robbins is concocted. Freeman's character is on the anemic
side. He's the black man who has given up hope who is saved by the more
educated white man. Is he a real black man? Is he like any black man
sent to prison? This does not ring true. I think Freeman is a great
actor who wants to work and make a living; but I can pass when he's in
"Driving Miss Daisy" mode."Shawshank" looks very, very good. The frames are carefully composed.
The main problems I have with it go back to the adapted story and the
script, the way it tells the story.

******
5 September 2015
10
Film The Shawshank Redemption (1994) of the coolest movies Alholeod
offered over time, as the double expressed in the representation of
their roles, so make you live in the atmosphere of the film is the
meanings that was frequented by the writer through loyalty and
sincerity and friendship, as well as sad character in the film in
addition to the joy than at other times.The film, contain a legend Tmeselah and impressive performance and
excellent output, in addition to effects, and how to exit the.Actors Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman has been creative in their roles,
where loyalty, love and friendship to the last moment, and leads you to
identify the same prison and prisoners and how treatment in prisons,
and how to resort to the ways of contributing to the development of the
mind of the prisoner and turn it into a peaceful person such as reading
and operations of cleaning and washing......The film has deserved to be one of the best Hollywood movies, because
it contains a lot of the stars of representation in addition to a
distinguished writer and director in the making of a representative
story to everyone's liking.

******
3 September 2015
10
This movie I'm not going to call this film the IMDb #1 movie, but I
really can't deny that this is fantastic. The cast, the score, the
writing, and the power are all here in this film, and filled with
strength. It's one of those movies that you will continue to think
about even after the film is over. It is about a friendship, a life, an
evil, and a hope. A hope that is considered in many ways to be bridge
to insanity inside the prison walls. We see these people as years of
time goes by. We see friendships grow, and topics change. It really
puts you in the prison, and makes you feel what's like to behind those
bars. You feel the friendship, the hope, the darkness, and the pure
horror of it all.

******
2 September 2015
10
I am in love with this movie..What an endurance of patience the
protagonist had.Its a sheer display of how a person can get what he
wants.With all of the aesthetic touches and attention to cinematic
detail, the most beautiful part of the film lies within its thematic
material, such as its focus on the human desires for the most abstract
concepts, like hope and freedom. These themes, which concern things the
human spirit undoubtedly yearns for, seem so intricately woven into the
plot that it easily draws its audience in to its story. Though full of
hardened criminals, your heart will go out to these men as they display
the most basic of human emotions, and deliver some of the most quotable
lines in a film to date. Like a great novel, this film manages to
succeed at greater things than simply entertaining an audience.
Darabont tells his story most masterfully, illustrating principles and
inspiring his audience to think. He leaves us a poignant film with a
powerful message of hope, and redemption, something we all seek.

******
1 September 2015
10
This is a movie that truly deserves a 10. It truly opens your
conscience an lets you look at life differently in three ways. You realize that your world that you think is OK, is actually like a
prison. That's the way that makes this movie depressing.The other way is a bit more positive. It makes you realize that things
that you worry about are not actual problems. That happens when you see
the people in the movie that have the real problems.The final way is the most positive. This movie gives you hope that
someday everything will be better. If you are feeling sad missing
somebody, this is definitely the movie you should see.

******
31 August 2015
9
dictate the paragon unit red package for you. If you someone problems
executing your metric exit announcement then you should not waffle to
speak up to your trainer. It is alter to be genuine and upfront instead
of not succeeding your announcement, justice? Your trainer faculty your
needs. Do not pause to ask questions. You can declare your coefficient
exit programmer with the on place stretch in the gym. The medico leave
be fit to render you advice on the intensiveness of your workouts. The
ethologist or the nutritionist give also be healthy to swear you what
you should eat and what you should not eat. In a inborn weight
expiration papers, doctors and nutritionists commonly suggest to cut
rd. on carbohydrates and increase intake of fruits and vegetables. You
are what you eat as more doctors and nutritionists would say. Unit
diminution is something that obesity people essential to achieve.
Weight decline is a imagination of some out there. If you require to
worsen weight then you gambler be embattled to do what has to be
through. If you are not ready to decline weight in a weight experience
system then you turn find an production to do so. Unit decease is not
all most discipline programs, you
http://www.healthcaresups.com/supercbd/

******
31 August 2015
10
this is the great and powerful movie , but doesn't mean is #1 for me ,
each one have #1 movie so don't judge me . for me Godfather 1 is #1 This is a masterpiece. A timeless masterpiece. Initially, I didn't like
this film all that much - I found it rather over-hyped and boring. This
was until the advent of DVD, which gave me the feature I needed for
this sort of film: subtitles. Once I switched them on and heard (read)
every last word of Brando's ramblings and other characters ramblings, I
grew a true appreciation for this epic.But this is a great movie , over what i said , still The Shawshank
Redemption deserves 10 of 10 .

******
31 August 2015
10
One of the best films made.. emotionally gripping and non stop
entertainment from start to finish it kept me guessing. Great cast and
screenplay. I loved the story line. Had suspense and mystery. One of
the best prison movies ever made. Real connection to the prisoners and
the difficulty they endured. I couldn't stop watching. And have watched
rime and time again. Still to this day I watch it. You can laugh and
cry and grip the edge of the seat. Everything about it was just mind
blowing I sure would have drudge through a sewer line to get out of
there. And the ending was perfect. I definitely rated it 10 stars. I
still don't think I can pick another that compare. I couldn't imagine
the pain and heart ache they went through. Brilliant directing. And
editing. Will continue to watch many more times. I would love to see a
remake of it but don't know if they could top this one. I personally
felt as if I was there. I could feel the emotion I could feel the pan
and frustration. The excitement of breathing free are. It's It's a
masterpiece all on its own. I would put the green mile along with it..
living in such conditions and then to finally find redemption. Not just
a string. At but some of the best work they have ever done. The detail
and we'll thought out story was magnificent. It's hard to imagine what
those men felt but after watching I can say I felt everything. I would
recommend this anyone who didn't see it to make time to watch. No
matter what the reason. This is the movie if it's time. Never would I
thought some of the turn of events would have happened. And
incomparable to many other films. One of a kind.

******
31 August 2015
9
Wonderful movie, based on determination, hard work and intelligence.
Use of time at it best In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim
Robbins) is convicted of a double murder, even though he stubbornly
proclaims his innocence. He's sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank
State Prison in Maine, where another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan
Freeman), picks him as the new recruit most likely to crack under the
pressure. The ugly realities of prison life are quickly introduced to
Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron
Hadley (Clancy Brown), and inmates who are little better than animals,
willing to use rape or beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy
does not crack: he has the hope of the truly innocent, which (together
with his smarts) allow him to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking
skills to win favor with the warden and the guards, doing the books for
Norton's illegal business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments
of most of the prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the
prison library and bring some dignity and respect back to many of the
inmates, including Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank
Redemption was the directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont. ~
Mark Deming, Rovi

******
30 August 2015
10
This movie was excellent. Why are you reading the reviews? Grab
yourself your favorite bowl of popcorn and watch this movie.Now when I mean that the movie is excellent I mean that it really is.
If any of your friends haven't seen this movie then you really need to
sit down with them and watch it together. I've watched this move over 9 times and it still doesn't get old. If
you're still contemplating if you should watch this movie then you're
really missing out.I strongly recommend this movie to anyone that wants to watch something
good.

******
27 August 2015
10
one of the best movie ever i had seen not just a movie the The
Shawshank Redemption give to you thing other movies couldn't give it's
the hope .. the happy ending and the Justice is make you happy when you
see the movie 104 minute from the the best Screenplay i love the actors
i can't write more because the movie is Genius enjoy it Not for two
hours or more Ahdk Bahaddath and Adjalkk wish that never ends onset see
some events boring but soon begin to events and make you excited and
eager to see what's next. The film by the very characteristic plot.
What I liked most is a quote from the words of the film hero.
Deliverance in the Bible is literally the destination and survived
them. Old movie from the seventies but time makes you live events.It is
undergoing grief. Emotions. Happiness. That were not have seen the film
and do not waste your time reading this report, and go and have him and
he saw. Believe me, you'll miss the task in minutes not see Masterpiece
Hollywood.. first Review i write ayman alsalman

******
24 August 2015
10
Andy, who is a young and successful banker, has been sentenced to life
imprisonment for the murder of his wife and lover. This movie revolves
around the events in his life from when he comes to prison till he
escapes from it. This the one of the best movies I have ever seen. The
best message conveyed by this movies is of eternal hope. Andy was sent
to the prison though he didn't commit the crime. Over the years, he
retains hope and earns the respect of fellow prisoners, especially he
bond with a longtime convict, Red. Over the time, Andy finds ways to
live out life with relative ease as one can in a prison, leaving a
message for all that while the body may be locked away in a cell, the
spirit can never be truly imprisoned. And finally he escapes from the
prison and frees himself. This movies truly depicts the meaning of the
quote "Hope is a good thing maybe the best thing, and no good things
ever dies".

******
24 August 2015
10
The movie is primarily filmed inside a prison. One great thing I liked
about the movie is that it is not shown from the perspective of its
hero (Andy Duferene) but it is shown from the perspective of Red(Morgan
Freeman). The film starts with a courtroom scene where Andy is given
two life sentences as he is convicted for the murder of his wife and
her lover. Then the story goes inside the prison and stays there. We
see how Andy is different from others. How he risks his life for
getting beer for his friends and things like. Red is the closest person
to Andy in person. Andy, by his skills, impresses the prison staff, so
they allow him to write letters to government officials for funds for
prison library and also they utilize it to run their scams. The movie
doesn't seem to show pity over Andy's condition. It purely deals with
it in a subjective manner. Andy do many good things in prison, like he
helps his prison mates to get a high school diploma.Overall, the movie is worth watching.

******
23 August 2015
10
Thank you for creating this list at IMDb:Albania Moviea list of 1 Titles by erandhoxhaYou and your friends can see your list at the following URL:
http://www.IMDb.com/list/ls074832405/You can share your list with your friends via Facebook or Twitter by
clicking on the share links on your list.The IMDb Poll at http://IMDb.com/poll/ is made from lists just like
yours. Would your list make a good poll? Submit it at
http://imdb.to/1lC8tEs .Your list is also automatically a quiz that you can take and share with
your friends. Visit your list, and try it out!

******
21 August 2015
10
i love this each time i watch..i just love each and every character in
this movie..quite inspiring the most imp thing is this movie was done
in 1994 and at that time the director did such type of awesome work
with the story and for that i hats up for his work..the acting is
really nice from each and everybody..the most imp part is when its
revel the big hole..omg the turning point of the movie and then the
narration part of andy and then the post card received by freeman and
then he release from the jail and then he go to the same house where
the ex librarian hang himself and freeman couldn't do that and he is on
his towards hope and they meet each other. " HOPE IS A GOOD THING MAY
BE THE BEST OF THINGS,AND NO GOOD THING EVER DIE "

******
20 August 2015
10
One of the best movie all time. This is a movie about time, patience
and loyalty -- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during
the subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men
serving life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight
off despair.The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest busload of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods."The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may
have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it,
and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There
is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But
mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal
worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a
sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption.

******
19 August 2015
10
This film tells the story of a banker who is arrested for a crime he
did't commit and sent to a prison where he tries to adapt, despite the
hardness of the day-to-day life. Based on a Stephen Kink's novel and
directed by Frank Darabont, has an excellent cast headed by Tim
Robbins, who plays the banker, and Morgan Freeman, who gives life to an
inmate, particularly skilled in the art of smuggling goods inside the
prison.Darabont deserves congratulations for the way he directed the film and
wrote the screenplay. Thanks to him, this film is human and sentimental
without exaggeration. Tim Robbins shone in its interpretation of banker
Andrew Dufresne, a man shaken by the sudden collapse of his way of
life, but that doesn't cease to dream with freedom and to help those
who share his misfortune, even in the worst moments. Thanks to Robbins,
Andrew Dufresne isn't a mere banker betrayed by fate, but a deeply
generous and human person. Far from spending time lamenting his
injustice or his downfall, this Dufresne is more concerned to adapt to
his new situation and provide to his cell mates the means to "trick the
bad luck" and maintain their hope, that same hope that he, himself,
always tries to maintain. Another actor that deserves particular
attention is Morgan Freeman, who incorporates "Red" Redding, a longtime
inmate, admittedly guilty, that recounts the events in the first
person. Bob Gunton gives body to the prison director who, with the
Bible in his hand, will not hesitate to do all the things the Bible
disapproves. However, despite the deserved highlights, it must be said
that the entire cast of the film deserves congratulations and reached
excellence. The technical aspects of the film are equally blameless,
with photography and soundtrack to deserve particular attention and to
strengthen the human side of this story where, despite the windows have
bars, there is always a sun cross for them.It's not by chance or by grace that this film is considered by many one
of the best films ever. In fact, it won this award by right, among
other distinctions achieved (seven nominations for the Oscar, two
Golden Globe nominations etc...). Acclaimed by the critics, it was a
relative commercial failure, which only prove to us that what is done
to sell rarely is good enough to stay for posterity. And this movie
stays here for the future generations. It's a hymn to hope, and to all
human values ​​that we, so often, forget.

******
19 August 2015
10
If you were to take a poll today and ask anyone from Gen X and back
what they think of Shawshank Redemption, chances are you'd get an
overwhelmingly positive response. The story of a banker convicted of a
double homicide, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), maintains his innocence
and finds a way of surviving 19 years of harsh prison life, all the
while creating an unlikely bond with fellow convict Ellis "Red" Redding
(Morgan Freeman). I could see why some of the boys took him for snobby.
He had a quiet way about him, a walk and a talk that just wasn't normal
around here. He strolled, like a man in a park without a care or a
worry in the world, like he had on an invisible coat that would shield
him from this place. Yeah, I think it would be fair to say...I liked
Andy from the start.

******
18 August 2015
9
When the odds are against you, there's only moving forward or turning
back. When Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sent to one of the toughest
prisons for two consecutive life sentences for murders he did not
commit, the mere thought is enough to make anyone insane. Prison life
is tough, but Shawshank prison gets the cake for displaying just how
harsh it can be. Corrupt guards, brash punishments and bare minimum
accommodations are only half the picture. Just as soon as he's about to
break, he makes a discovery that requires incredibly true determination
and hope. The Shawshank Redemption is a screenplay adaptation of
Stephen King's novella; Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Writer
and Director Frank Darabont was able to capture a realistic
representation of what prison life might have looked like in the first
half of the 20th century. Although the budget was very modest for this
film, it really looks like they didn't need anymore. A cast that
consists of veteran actors helps to meld the film's respect with their
performances. One very noteworthy performance was from Morgan Freeman's
character: Ellis Boyd (Red). He was also the one who narrated most of
the film and that's always a treat for the audience.Thomas Newman who was responsible for the soundtrack did a great job
enhancing the scenes whether it is eerie or joyous. Although at times I
felt that there needed to be a more powerful theme to reflect the scene
which fortunately was only in a few scenes. Nevertheless, the
captivating themes are something to remember in this film. Memorable
characters, a great soundtrack and an excellent plot all make this a
highly recommended movie to watch. There really isn't much to nit-pick
about this film which is what really brings it to the top. Like all
highly rated/regarded films, there tends to be some form of overrating
which is understandable, since all great things attract jealousy.

******
18 August 2015
9
Amazing!when Shawshank break in the prison,i fall in love with him. A
promising young bank vice President Andy, after being wrongfully killed
his wife and her lover, was sentenced to two life sentences. An
innocent man was into the dark of a stone wall, began his hopeless day.
Wall separated eyes, separated from it all. Here there is no hope of
salvation, prisons, everyone says "I'm not guilty", therefore, Andy's
innocent so absurd. No one believed he was really innocent. Twenty
years of prison life, corrupt the warden, the abuse of predatory guards
sodomy crazy to Andy brought great threat to the survival of, never
wear his desire to pursue the dream of freedom. He used his own money
management skills changed prison isolated situation, make the
friends... Andy is an optimistic, a man full of yearning for life. He
was walking leisurely in the prison, just like in the park. He carved a
few small things; He put the music in a prison; He constantly write for
the prison library for the expansion of capital; He help inmates get
the diploma; With more than ten years digging in the eyes of friends to
dig a tunnel in 600, on a stormy night, through the channel of the
life, crawl in 500 feet of sewage pipeline, in hell and heaven
compartment of a line of crawl, at last, Andy is free, and punish the
guilty the warden and others... Freedom is a seed buried in the heart
Prisoners in a bright spring morning, after finished work, sitting in
the roof idle, drank the Andy is very slowly in the life of cold beer,
enjoying a leisurely warm sunshine, it seemed to be on the roof of the
home, enjoy the hard-won freedom... Andy opened the music, a prison the
sound of the music of Mozart, beautiful high voice echoed over the
prison, all people, including prisoners and guards, and at the moment
is toward the direction of the music sound, quiet to listen, forget
about the constraints of the walls... Andy through own unremitting
efforts finally completed the best prison library in England, prisoners
can be like a free man, in the library to get outside the jail free
air... Freedom is the premise of hope, you have no hope, don't even
have a pursuit of courage, hope, you are not the real meaning of
freedom; The ideal of freedom that is not easy to get. But not give up
for freedom, even if need to run out of our life. So, we will hunger
for free on their own hope. Good, hope is a good thing, maybe the best
thing and no good thing ever dies. (Hope is a good thing, maybe the
best of things, and no good thing (dies.). In Andy's motto, won the
rebirth. They finally tower on (Zihuatanejo) in China, a beautiful
seaside meet Mexico. Under the blue sky is the vast blue sea, the beach
is a small boat, two old friends finally sunny beach meet, each other
each other are very pleasant smile... The clear blue sky and blue ocean
for broad symbolizes the ideal of freedom; And the boat and the two old
friends smile is moral good hope for the future. At the end of this can
move people, because it will be free and hope in the perfect fusion,
and presented to the us together.

******
18 August 2015
10
The fact this movie stands at the IMDb top for years now should be
enough to convince you to watch this asap. Based on a novella by
Stephen King, Frank Darabont's film is perhaps the most accomplished
prison drama ever. If you liked Papillon, you are going to love
Shawshank's Redemption. But this is more than just a bleak prison
drama. Not that there aren't grim situations depicted here. Several
points in the story are not for the faint of heart for their cruelty
and outright sense of injustice. The ordeals of one Andy Dufresne (in
an unsurpassed performance by Tim Robbins) and his fellow cell mates
are in fact so harrowing that will make you beg for justice to be done
and pray for salvation. Is there hope and light at the end of the
tunnel? Let's say that this movie belongs to that group of films (like
Sixth Sense and Jacob's Ladder) that have a little secret and when the
time for catharsis comes, after all the trials our hero has been
through, it doesn't just rain, it pours. It is that precise moment that
turns what would have otherwise been a finely crafted drama into a
timeless classic. As the protagonist at one point says, hope is a good
thing, perhaps the best of things. And it is hope that fuels this
expertly told tale of fight against adversity and why this film
resonates so strongly with so many people.

******
10 August 2015
4
great.....movie nice The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt one of
the most brilliant movies I have ever seen. Similar to The Green Mile
in many respects (and better than it in almost all of them), these two
movies have shown us that Stephen King is a master not only of horror
but also of prose that shakes the soul and moves the heart. The plot is
average, but King did great things with it in his novella that are only
furthered by the direction, and the acting is so top-rate it's almost
scary.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrane, wrongly imprisoned for 20 years for the
murder of his wife. The story focuses on Andy's relationship with "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman, in probably his best role) and his attempts to
escape from Shawshank. Bob Gunton is positively evil and frightening as
Warden Norton, and there are great performances and cameos all around;
the most prominent one being Gil Bellows (late as Billy of Ally McBeal)
as Tommy, a fellow inmate of Andy's who suffers under the iron will of
Norton.If you haven't seen this movie, GO AND RENT IT NOW. You will not be
disappointed. It is positively the best movie of the '90's, and one of
my Top 3 of all time. This movie is a spectacle to move the mind, soul,
and heart. 10/10

******
8 August 2015
10
SR is one of the greatest movies I have ever seen. It's story is about
a man who is accused of murdering his wife and her lover. He is
sentenced for life in prison . After twenty years of great troubles in
the prison he escapes from the prison by much hard working and
patience. Then he lives happily ever after overseas. Movies background
displays the life in prison, it highlights innocent people in the
prison. Even they did bad things they deserves redemption. But not all
of them. Some deserve punishment, some deserve freedom. It isn't easy
to choose who deserves what. This also shows the corruption in
authority. They only care about money. They doesn't care about lives of
the inmates. For example the fat guy who cries in his first night gets
killed by guards. If the authorities care about lives of inmates they
should punish the responsible for it. But they don't even raise a
question.

******
16 June 2015
7
Do you know what really grinds my gears? The fact that according to
IMDb's user ratings, this is the best movie of all time. And that's
highly debatable.Still okay, though. Only real reason to watch it is to get all the
references to it from TV shows and other stuff. Like all those iconic
scenes, who are parodied constantly. So worth it when you actually
watch the movie and finally can go "Aaaaaaa..!" and laugh, with your
friends or wife or mom. Everyone will think you are a normal person,
cause you know  people who don't know their pop cultural references
are pretty sh*t*y people, and nobody likes sh*t*y people. You know,
like the people that show up at BBQ's only bringing drinks for them
self, but no food. And then they just stand there  watching you eat
and drink while spoiling some blockbuster or TV show you have postponed
seeing for far to long. Like seriously, I have still not seen The Wire.
THE WIRE. Ranked by some as the best. show. of. all. time. Haven't seen
it. I have  on the other hand  watched all seasons of How I Met Your
Mother like seven times. Why?! I'm so wasting my life.. Did you see the
final season of HIMYM? Holy sh** that was so horrible. Worst ending
possible to a show that started out pretty good and landed at "Meh,
it's watchable, I guess". That show was basically meant for me. And
then you give it that ending?! It was like it was written by Adam
Sandler's lower back. But still, a pretty solid "Meh" to The Shawshank Redemption. Also Tim
Robbins has gotten really fat and ugly, what's up with that?

******
9 June 2015
7
Yet I could not watch the movie , but it seems to me the story pleases
me a lot. I'll do with the maximum attention. I hope not disappoint me this
production.I was Recommended As such hope and what is in the agreement with the
opinion of my colleague. Never had listen talk in " The Shawshank Redemption of (1994 ) " but I
liked In this prefecture.I am pretty addicted to series and recommend The Vampire Diaries , I
found this fabulous series . Watch and not go wrong.

******
8 June 2015
9
This is a lovely movie and a must watch for all the Classical movie
lovers out there. There's pinch of emotions that comes bundled with the
movie and you eventually get involved in the movie so much that it's
hard for you to decide who is the right man. In short, life is easiest
when you learn the right way to live it.The movie comes with quite a lot twists and suspense scenes. At the end
it'll be hard for you to believe. Won't reveal much about the movie -
but if you're a movie freak and you're the person who is turned on with
classical tales, this is the one for you. At the end of the movie I'm
pretty sure that you'll have a different perspective towards life and
people around you. Do watch it.

******
8 June 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption.A film about an innocent and hopeful banker named Andy Dufrense, who
gets wrongfully convicted of murdering his wife and her lover she
cheated him with. He befriends a charming yet fearful fellow inmate
named Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding. The two men bond for 19 years in
Shawshank prison from 1947 to 1966. They work hard, find solace, earn
the respect of the other prisoners, and eventually redeem themselves by
escaping. All by committing acts of common decency. There's a reason why this movie is number one on the top 250 movies of
the IMDb. There is only one word that can describe a film like this.
Perfect! This film is perfect in every shape, way, and from. The
directing, writing, acting, story, plot, characters, visuals, lighting,
atmosphere, pacing, technicals, editing, and even the music is all
perfect. It's fully enjoyable from start to finish. Not once did I take
my eyes off the screen or stopped listening for a sec. Heck, even the
casting and believability in this film is perfect. Each and every actor
fits their character perfectly and the film is entirely flawless. There
was not one moment in the entire film that I pointed out a plot hole,
or a continuity error, or anything. The best part about this film is
the impact the story has on the viewer, because this film has the most
satisfying and perfect ending ever in film history. It will leave the
viewer with the best feeling ever. It's a timeless film that can be
watched countless times over again and never gets tiring. It's rather
unbelievable that this film didn't win a single Oscar. Luckily, this
film doesn't need an Oscar to know that it's the best film ever, it
just needs the general public. What's even more unbelievable is that
this is the first movie that director Frank Darabont made and it's
based off of the Stephen King novella. Now, I never read the book, but
I can already bet that this film is even better than the book and
that's saying a lot. This film can even go so far as to be therapeutic.
If anyone out there is reading this and is feeling depressed, please
watch this heavenly film and be uplifted. The moral of this movie is a
moral that speaks for all movies that helps a character get through
their darkest times and it is a moral that can help anyone in real life
get through their darkest times. Remember it and never forget it. Fear
can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free.

******
7 June 2015
10
Every time this movie in on, I watch it. I don't even check to see what
else is on, I just watch this. If I see that it is coming on again in a
few hours, I wait for it to come on again. When it isn't on, I'm
thinking about watching it. I have a general idea of every line that is
in the movie, so I can sort of see what will be said next. Regardless
of this, I still continue to watch this movie every time it is on."No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other." carflo (another IMDb reviewer) This is the best summary
for this movie. The first time I saw this movie was when I was passing
by the television. It was on and my mother was watching it. She, like
me, has vowed to watch it every time it's on. I didn't know it at the
time but it was a long standing tradition that was passed on to me.
Thank you to all those cable channels with commercials for airing this
movie once a week.

******
7 June 2015
10
all I can say about this is that it is by a clear mile one of the best
films ever made! the story line was gripping and intriguing, there was
never a single dull moment and i can honestly say that this film is
definitely one that i can watch over and over again without being
bored. the cast really brought the characters to life and it was just
such an emotional roller-coaster. if you have never seen this film
before then i definitely recommend that you watch it! watch it on your
own or with friends and family it really doesn't matter because i can
guarantee that everyone will love it and if they for some reason don't
then they clearly have no taste

******
7 June 2015
10
I needed to make a review this goodness movie I've ever seen. The movie
was so thrilling all time. The main player and supporting were as suit
as it is.When first time I watched this movie, it was a kind of detective movie
I've seen a lot of it myself. But, after I watched whole scenes, it
took me a kind of excitement and more unpredictable than I thought.For the ending of my review, I would completely recommend this movie
for all of you. I feel very exciting for this after finishing this
movie This movie is a must watch. True life is about to be told in this
movie!! 10/10.

******
7 June 2015
10
Damn good movie to watch.... more than 100 times I tell you Damn good
movie to watch.... more than 100 times I tell you Damn good movie to
watch.... more than 100 times I tell you Damn good movie to watch....
more than 100 times I tell you Damn good movie to watch.... more than
100 times I tell you Damn good movie to watch.... more than 100 times I
tell you Damn good movie to watch.... more than 100 times I tell you
Damn good movie to watch.... more than 100 times I tell you Damn good
movie to watch.... more than 100 times I tell you Damn good movie to
watch.... more than 100 times I tell you Damn good movie to watch....
more than 100 times I tell you

******
7 June 2015
9
One of the best movies ever made. Morgan Freeman is like always best
playing a role, he is magnificent. In my opinion Tim Robbins makes one
of his lifetime roles here as well. As the plot says "Two imprisoned
men bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption
through acts of common decency." but this movie is actually more than
that. I do not want to ruin pleasure of watching so enjoy it as much as
you can. Also in my opinion this movie was the foundation for other
good movies, one of that being Inception that has "some" of the
Shawshank Redemption ideas inside . In my opinion this can be called
the beginning of a new era in cinematography history as it records new
(for the time) approaches on movies and acting (see Morgan Freeman and
Tim Robbins) . Also, this movie is one of the new plan to save
Hollywood movie industry at the time as Hollywood was almost deep
buried in clichés and bad producing and acting movies. Just to shorten
it up i am speechless and please watch, enjoy and have a nice
experience.Thank you for reading my review , hope i managed to catch you and
please stay tuned.

******
4 June 2015
9
Right from the opening credits, this film shows quality. It stands
above other comedies due to the lack of filler material - every line is
memorable. The cast is great; the two leads make the most of their
characters (both as brokers and bums) but never overstep the mark,
thanks partly to the tight editing. The plot becomes a little bizarre,
but by that time you're already hooked, and the ending of the film is
pure joy. To my mind, no recent comedy has been this good; it mixes
high and low brow jokes without resorting to toilet humor, it doesn't
pull any punches (spot the social commentary), the performances are
masterful and the script achieves depth without sacrificing the
one-liners or slowing the pace.

******
3 June 2015
10
Nothing to Say when You wanna say everything !you think that's a turnoff title, remember all the smart-ass things
people said before Forrest Gump happened. Shawshank  the name refers
to a maximum-security prison in Maine  is already being touted to join
Gump in the Oscar race. Why not? The academy regularly drops its
drawers for films that celebrate the triumph of the human spirit. And
this baby strums that theme hard as inmate Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins),
a Shawshank newcomer in 1946, strikes up a 20-year friendship with a
lifer named Red (Morgan Freeman). They're both in jail for the Big One:
murder.

******
3 June 2015
10
In 1947 Portland, Maine, banker Andy Dufresne is convicted of murdering
his wife and her lover and sentenced to two consecutive life sentences
at the fictional Shawshank State Penitentiary in rural Maine. Andy
befriends prison contraband smuggler, Ellis "Red" Redding, an inmate
serving a life sentence. Red procures a rock hammer and later a large
poster of Rita Hayworth for Andy. Working in the prison laundry, Andy
is regularly assaulted by the "bull queer" gang "the Sisters" and their
leader, Bogs.In 1949, Andy overhears the brutal captain of the guards, Byron Hadley,
complaining about being taxed on an inheritance and offers to help him
legally shelter the money. After a vicious assault by the Sisters
nearly kills Andy, Hadley beats Bogs severely. Bogs is sent to another
prison and Andy is never attacked again. Warden Samuel Norton meets
Andy and reassigns him to the prison library to assist elderly inmate
Brooks Hatlen. Andy's new job is a pretext for him to begin managing
financial matters for the prison employees. As time passes, the Warden
begins using Andy to handle matters for a variety of people including
guards from other prisons and the warden himself. Andy begins writing
weekly letters to the state government for funds to improve the
decaying library.

******
2 June 2015
8
This is my first review in awhile. Figured I would just review a
classic because I don't have a lot of time. GREAT movie, classic,
always a good watch on a rainy day with all my classics: Green Mile,
Forest Gump, Usual Suspects, Pulp Fiction, Etc.Just wondered why I had to scroll to the bottom on IMDb in order to
review. Could use a meta bar next to the rating review at the top of
the page please. I will inquire.I love the book format this film shows. The narration and the climate
build-up until the inevitable escape, leaving you edging to see how he
does it, not leaving out how connected we were with the dean to wonder
how he did it. I don't think anyone wanted to follow him down the
rabbit hole.

******
2 June 2015
10
Best movie I've ever seen in quite a long time. it has everything.
intrigue until the last minute, passionate and heartbreaking story.The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.

******
2 June 2015
9
if any one need to know what is the meaning of the enjoy of watching
cinema then he must watching this grate complete enjoyable movie, there
is something attractive in this film, the story its written very well
and the performance of the crew was more than perfect, i watch this
movie again and again and i am always have the desire to watch it more
and more, you cant feel boredom from this type of movies, you can feel
the emotions of the characters like you are live with them, the events
of this movie its touch the souls and move the emotions, its very
realistic, i like the performance of Morgan Freeman in this movie, i
think its the greatest actor, really this movie its deserve the reviews
as number one on top 250 movies on IMDb,and i am sure its will stay
there for very long coming time, i don't know why the companies of
production doesn't support to creating like this movie now a days.

******
2 June 2015
8
The reason I became a member of this database is because I finally
found a movie ranking that recognized the true greatness of movies like
this.One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very
moving story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first
rate with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
29 May 2015
8
This movie blow my mind, i love the character of Andy and his friend
Red, i like the he overcome his problems and keep in mind his goal
freedom. Love how he make all the plan to brake out form jail. i think
is really cool the as always all runaways go and hide in Mexico. Like
the idea of going to Zihuatanejo beach and build a ship and go travel
all pacific Mexican cost. Andy was a really Smart man and i think this
move shows how you can pass all bad things in life if you have a goal,
and look for it. The only i didn't like was the fact the nobody prove
the Andy was Innocent of killing his wife. or maybe he did, i think
Andy find out the she was cheating on him and he plan the crime with
the same method he plan his scape of prison, who knows?

******
29 May 2015
10
To me this is one of the classic. The story of a is unique prison break
but with a lot of drama and suspense. Spiritually moving old-fashioned
prison movie. I loved it. All the character got their own uniqueness and importance. Overall you
have to watch it to feel it. Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a
man who has never struck a false note in his career, both narrates this
tale and anchors it with his authoritative playing.Top-notch performances, exceptional cinematography, and masterful
direction combine to make this film something special indeed. So, yeah
I love this film. It's a story about hope and dreams and one whose
emotional impact is as great as the Pacific Ocean is blue.

******
28 May 2015
10
This is the Best Movie I have Ever Seen. I can't think of anyone not
seeing this movie. If there was such a way that; I would erase my
memory and watch this movie over and over again, I would definitely do
it. The story is very smooth and you can not get your eyes off he
screen. Even if you don't like such prison movies you should give this
one a try. Because this one isn't just a prison movie, it tells and
shows the real life events. Real people and real reactions to real
events either they are good or bad. This is life itself. Sour, sweet
and everything in between. Prepare to cry and laugh. Such a great
intellect. I see similarities with the series OZ (1997-2003) and this
movie. You may also want to check OZ as well. These two are perfect
stories to experience. Also the actors and actresses played their roles
perfectly. This is a masterpiece. You won't regret it.

******
27 May 2015
10
I'm not an English major so take this as it goes - I'm gonna try and make this quick. My favorite movie of all time is T2
and Jaws...but this film...man if I had to pick one...JUST ONE...this
would be it. Sure its based off a book but goddamn is it amazing. The
acting, the set design, the
cinematography...EVERYTHING...literally...NOTHING is wrong with this
film. The Score, the story, the pace...EVERYTHING. After my house fire
I had two years ago I felt like Andy...everything taken away from
him...nothing but himself and what was inside (a reference to him and
Mozart remember?) ....as time went on I learned that its not the
physical items in your life but what you have inside. Even though I had
seen the film more times than most...a few days after the fire...and a
few days of drinking and self pity(rightfully so) I was inside my hotel
room and said screw it and watched the flick. Get busy livin...or get
busy dying......THATS GOD DAMN RIGHT! I owe a lot to this film both
before and especially after the fire. If you don't think of it as AT
LEAST one of the top 5 movies of all time...you better have one good
damn reason. R Smith Cape Cod, MA wink emoticon

******
27 May 2015
10
Every time I start losing hope about the future I watch this movie.
"Get busy living or get busy dying" is my favorite quote. Simple as
that. What amazed me is the fact that this movie is still No# 1 in Top
250 movies of all time votes after all these years. This means
something about the general consciousness of the people of our times.
Most of us are trapped in some sort of prison. Out there, somewhere is
our Zihuatanejo, our true dream place, our destination. Is it a place
on earth ? Heaven ? Tim Robbins acting is great and the unique and
special voice of Morgan Freeman draws the audience into this strange
world. There are so many memorable quotes. Bible scriptures are also
quoted in interesting ways and angles that enrich the plot and
storyline in a special way. Highly recommended to watch on Sunday
nights, just before you face that scary Monday morning.

******
26 May 2015
10
"One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once"

******
25 May 2015
10
I've grown up with my parents talking about how great this movie is and
finally I've got round to seeing it. It really is as brilliant as they
say. It's moving, powerful, emotional, and brilliantly acted. I
particularly loved Morgan Freeman's character. It had the same sort of
tone as Forest Gump, and now I am a certified fan. Despite its age,it's
still as amazing and excellent today as it was after its release. Very
impressed and I'd definitely recommend it to everyone. The plot twists
are also very enjoyable. When we see that a hole has been made through
the prison wall, and we see the main character crawling through a
sewage pipe to escape! Remarkable, moving, powerful stuff. I might just
go and re-watch it now.

******
23 May 2015
9
Well it was not until recently I saw this one....a few of my friends
had seen it and were completely raving about it....finally saw it a few
days back...it takes some time to fully absorb it....what an
outstanding cinematic achievement....!!! It is a complete pity that the
movie released in the year of 1994, because it was robbed of a well
deserved Oscar, given pulp fiction and and Forrest gump also released
the same year.....this movie has everything. ...memorable performances,
characters, a good story....it also has a lot of repeat value...this is
a kind of movie which you can go back to whenever you are down in
life...there are a few cinematic liberties taken....but thats
pardonable.

******
23 May 2015
10
This is one of the most moving films I have ever seen. It has
everything. Suspense. Wonder. Amazement. Adventure. Intrigue. It has
everything. Suspense. Wonder. A must watch film for anyone. This is one
of the most moving films I have ever seen. It has everything. Suspense.
Wonder. Amazement. Adventure. Intrigue. It has everything. Suspense.
Wonder. A must watch film for anyone. This is one of the most moving
films I have ever seen. It has everything. Suspense. Wonder. Amazement.
Adventure. Intrigue. It has everything. Suspense. Wonder. A must watch
film for anyone. This is one of the most moving films I have ever seen.
It has everything. Suspense. Wonder. Amazement. Adventure. Intrigue. It
has everything. Suspense. Wonder. A must watch film for anyone.

******
23 May 2015
10
Well, well, well, I finally got round to seeing this so-called
masterpiece; praised as the best film ever and frankly, I agree.What makes this film a true viewing pleasure is a number of components.
Firstly it is superbly filmed, capturing every moment at the best
possible angle making it easy to watch. The performances are fantastic
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman play their parts exponentially well, so
convincing you lose yourself in the Shawshank world. The music also
makes the key moments of the plot ever more intense and moving. Another
point is that it is not too long and drags on but is not cut too short;
the perfect length.In conclusion, I would highly recommend it and I really enjoyed it with
its exciting storey, great performances, fantastic music and the ideal
length it is truly worth the title of the best film ever!

******
21 May 2015
10
What is freedom worth? How important is friendships? What is the
purpose of living? What is justice?All these questions is answered in this movie. One of the best movies
in the history. I cant say it is the best movie ever made, because
there is not a number 1 best movie. But this movie is a legendary
classic A must see. The movie is based on the novel by Stephen King The
director Frank Darabont have also written the script. And Tim Robbins
and Morgan Freeman are the stars, and they are playing sublime. The
Shawshank Redemption was nominated for 7 Oscars including best picture,
best script and best leading actor(Morgan Freeman) Oscars 1995 is one
of the greatest years in Oscar history, where Forrest Gump ran with the
most of the prices including best picture, best director and leading
role. Taratino won best script(Pulp Fiction) So it is understandable
that The Shawshank Redemption didn't win any Oscars even tho it
deserved too. I think its a better movie than both Forrest Gump and
Pulp Fiction - but you cant win any time - but you can still be a
winner without a price :)

******
20 May 2015
8
n 1946 a young New England banker, Andy Dufresne (Robbins), is
convicted of murdering his wife and her lover and sentenced to life at
the Shawshank State Prison - twice over. Quiet and introspective, he
gradually strikes up a friendship with the prison 'fixer', Red
(Freeman), and over the next two decades wins the trust of the governor
and guards, but in his heart, he still yearns for freedom. Darabont's
adaptation of a Stephen King novella is a throwback to the kind of
serious, literate drama Hollywood used to make (Birdman of Alcatraz,
say) though the big spiritual resolution takes some swallowing - ditto
the colour-blind relationships within the prison and the violent
disavowal of any homosexual implications. Against this weighs the
pleasure of discovering a first-time director with evident respect for
the intelligence of his audience, brave enough to let character details
accumulate without recourse to the fast- forward button. Darabont plays
the long game and wins: this is an engrossing, superbly acted yarn,
while the Shawshank itself is a truly formidable mausoleum.

******
19 May 2015
10
Wow, this is really the best movie ever made. Even though this movie
contained a few mistakes, I'd like to rate it full-on-full. I want to
tell this to all the people who haven't seen the movie, it's a must
watch. You might think that 'Forrest Gump', The Best Picture Oscar
winner can beat it, let me tell you, IT CANNOT! I'm serious! It is
about a man, Andy Dufresne who has been put behind the bars for the
murder of his wife and her lover, a Professional Golf player. But just
like every other man in The Shawshank Prison, he too is innocent. Then
he meets a, Ellis Boyd Redding, a smuggler/businessman and makes
friends with him and his gang. Andy then asks him for a small rock
hammer witch is soon delivered to him. He one day sees the names of
prisoners written in the cell. He to goes to writ his name on the wall
that is so weak that is comes out after which, he starts digging a hole
in the wall. After 20 years of being in the jail and realizing how
corrupt the warden is when he kills his friend, he escapes the prison
and gets the warden so good that he suicides. The last thing that I'd
like to say is that it should be rated 9.5 on IMDb but still, that's
just a suggestion. 9.3 is good.

******
17 May 2015
9
My first inspirational movie of my entire life... In 1947 Portland,
Maine, banker Andy Dufresne is convicted of murdering his wife and her
lover and sentenced to two consecutive life sentences at the fictional
Shawshank State Penitentiary in rural Maine. Andy befriends prison
contraband smuggler, Ellis "Red" Redding, an inmate serving a life
sentence. Red procures a rock hammer and later a large poster of Rita
Hayworth for Andy. Working in the prison laundry, Andy is regularly
assaulted by the "bull queer" gang "the Sisters" and their leader,
Bogs. In 1949, Andy overhears the brutal captain of the guards, Byron
Hadley, complaining about being taxed on an inheritance and offers to
help him legally shelter the money. After a vicious assault by the
Sisters nearly kills Andy, Hadley beats Bogs severely. Bogs is sent to
another prison and Andy is never attacked again. Warden Samuel Norton
meets Andy and reassigns him to the prison library to assist elderly
inmate Brooks Hatlen. Andy's new job is a pretext for him to begin
managing financial matters for the prison employees. As time passes,
the Warden begins using Andy to handle matters for a variety of people
including guards from other prisons and the warden himself. Andy begins
writing weekly letters to the state government for funds to improve the
decaying library.

******
16 May 2015
9
Never has a movie inspired me so. The actors shine, the story is
compelling, and the directing is incredible. Frank Darabont truly
outdid himself with this masterpiece.Tim Robbins' is truly convincing as Andy Dufresne, in a role that would
truly define his career. We see an innocent man thrust into an unfair
situation, who maintains hope to keep himself moving and that hope
itself will become contagious. Morgan Freeman steels the show as Red,
his partner in crime. Freeman brings to this film a sense of
thoughtfulness, a sort of diamond in the rough that is prison. He may
not be perfect but he is wise, no man could have pulled off this role
quite like Freeman did. Too much do we forget Bob Gunton in the role of
the sinister Warden Samuel Norton. We are both terrified and disgusted
by him as he skirts the law and abuses his inmates in an effort to stay
at the very top.The violence and the nature of some of the inmates is worth noting as
it portrays prison accurately. In films like Cool Hand Luke we see how
these chain gang members are portrayed as sort of good old boys who
merely made a mistake. With characters like Boggs Diamond we receive a
visceral reminder of what prison life is really like, and we accompany
Andy on his ride through it. The plot twist is elaborate and clever,
like I would expect from a Steven King novella. It floors you and
leaves you at the edge of the seat. In the end, you can not help but
feel happy, joyous, and hopeful.This is a must see before you die. An inspirational movie that will
leave you spellbound for days. It is more than a film, it an experience
of a lifetime.

******
15 May 2015
10
I just rewatched this brilliant movie thinking seeing it a second time
it would lose its impact. I was wrong. I was just as touched and amazed
by this movie. This movie has everything a great film needs. From great
story with a beautiful ending and fascinating characters, to great
performances by every actor, to beautiful music and stunning
cinematography. I could go on for ages why this movie is amazing. It
doesn't have a single weak link in my opinion. Does it deserve to be
#1? Maybe not. But it is one of my all-time favourite movies, and I
enjoyed every single second of it. I would definitely recommend this
movie.

******
14 May 2015
10
This film is yet another in an ever-growing list of excellent works of
art that explain why I love Morgan Freeman! As usual, he holds your
attention in the most powerfully subtle manner! Tim Robbins is
FANTASTIC! He's so amazing in this role! It's worth watching at least
three times. There's some hard-hitting stuff but that's to be expected
in a prison film. The ending is so poignantly beautiful and simple yet
has an incredible emotional impact if you allow yourself to be
transported to that time and in their place. It helped me have a little
more compassion for inmates and ex-convicts. It's not for anyone under
18, so don't allow minors to view it. I highly recommend it to anyone
who hasn't seen it. You won't be disappointed!

******
14 May 2015
10
*SPOILERS* I'll just get it out of the way now. This is the prime
example to prove that Morgan Freeman is among the greatest narrators
ever, if not THE best. Tim Robbins, the lead in this movie, creates a
great duo with Morgan Freeman, with the dialogue shared between the two
feeling natural, as well as superb acting from both. The story line is
what presents the backbone for these great performances as the
narrative is a major part of what makes it one of the greatest films of
all time. A man is accused for his wife's murder, is sent to prison
where he serves life sentences which gives him the time to redeem
himself (though he did not commit the crime is accused of) and
eventually escape. The movie is full of great writing, acting,
directing and cinematography and deserved to win at least one Oscar out
of its seven nominations.

******
14 May 2015
9
Movie/Film is called shadow of life or imagination. We watch for
entertainment or learning or just for fun. All movies can't achieve the
goal to satisfy its viewer but "The Shawshank Redemption (1994)" does
beyond expectation. Those who fade up with their life should must watch
The Shawshank Redemption (1994). Its a movie of inspiration. After
watching the movie you realize it deserve the No.1 movie of IMDb top
movies of all the time. Without watching the Review can't express its
beauty. I've watches more than thousand movies but its the best. Still
waiting for a movie in which I can give 10 out of 10. It got 9 form me
but its my highest rating.

******
12 May 2015
10
Watching this movie is a Tantalizing, Breathtaking and Awesome
experience for all cinema art lovers. This movie is an unbelievable
piece of art where you can actually feel the feelings of the lives of
prisoners and the problems faced by them.The bond of friendship shown
in this movie is barely shown in any other piece of art in the line on
cinema and film industry . The performances of the actors TIM ROBBINS
and MORGAN FREEMAN and others are just unmistakable. This is one of the
perfect movies in which the most famous of the critics fails to find
any flaws. The dialogues of this movies will give you goosebumps The
power of this movie is just unmatched. for all those who haven't seen
this movie ,just watch it ASAP -CHAYAN TANK

******
12 May 2015
10
It is the best movie in the history of cinema. One of the best movies
of all time. Don't deprive yourself of the pleasure of watching such a
stellar movie. Go now and watch this movie if you have never seen it.
Perfect casting, amazing story, emotional performances. Just perfect.
Probably one of the best films I have ever seen in my young life.
Giving this a 10 won't do it justice. The Shawshank Redemption is just
pure story telling at its best. No wasted moments and no pause of time
,just absolute, pure narrative. The cast is perfect with Morgan Freeman
as Red completely stealing the show with his soothing narration style
while Tim Robbins gives out a really great performance; a falsely
convicted man who keeps it to himself. A film about hope and friendship
in the toughest of situations, Shawshank is uplifting, provocative and
awe inspiring. An absolute must watch.

******
10 May 2015
9
In my opinion, there are two different types of good movies (if not
more). One type is the one where you can watch hundreds of times and
still not get bored of it. The other is the one where is so memorable
that watching one time will result in you remembering it forever, even
if you never ever watch it again. Shawshank Redemption is the latter.The movie itself contains no fast-paced action or fantasy, but the
gradual progression of the movie makes way for character growth and
realism. In nearly 150 minutes, the viewers find themselves living and
growing with Andy and Red, urging for them to make a move and yet never
quite certain if they will.I don't really have any words that I can say about this movie other
than the fact that it is the type of masterpiece that makes you think
hard about everything.

******
7 May 2015
10
I really liked this move and this is why my first review it's about it.
First time I saw it, I was maybe 12, and even then, I was fascinated
with it. A story of a life spent in prison and learning how to live
with it, not giving up even everything seems lost, it was just
breathtaking. The second time I saw it, I was a bit older and
understood it better. I won't write about acting or the technical things but the movie as a
whole. It is in deed a masterpiece. Only a few movies can say about
themselves that everything was alright and if anything were different,
it would't be such a great film.

******
7 May 2015
10
This is one of the best films I have ever seen, the first time I saw
this, I became so enthralled, I couldn't take my eyes of it, I was
glued to the T.V I have watched the film several times since and find
it just as enthralling. The true friendship between the 2 characters
was so powerful. The story was incredible, it made me laugh, and cry,
the film was totally emotional. There wasn't any special effects in the
film, but I think that is good The acting was great throughout. A
defiantly must see film if you haven't seen it before. The ending shows
such poetic justice, it was great. I think Morgan Freeman is a great
actor in anything he does

******
7 May 2015
8
amazing movie love the direction.Specially few sequences were mind
blowing. M big fan of Frank Darabont.With each movie this man is
creating a bench mark.Cinematography was equally impressive.Morgan
freeman was at his best Whenever I talk about this movie with my
friends, I do not even refer to it by title, but rather as "The Movie".
When I say "The Movie", my friends know exactly what I'm talking about.
In fact the main reason that me and my friends don't refer to it by
title is because this movie is so great, that we do not feel worthy
enough to say it's name in vain! I still remember the first time I saw
The Shawshank Redemption. Some friends of mine and I went to see it at
one of those "Budget Theaters" over the summer of 1995. None of us
really knew anything about the movie, but we had heard that it was
pretty good. So, not having any real expectations, we saw it. When the
final credits rolled and the lights came on in the theater, all of us
just sat there with our jaws hanging down on the floor. I turned my
head towards my friend Bob and said "That was the greatest movie I have
ever seen in my entire life!" There's really no other way I can put it
in words. Every moment of this movie captivated me and inspired me to
believe in the one true thing in life...... "HOPE". This movie is sad,
uplifting, inspiring, harsh, cold, funny (at the right times),
jaw-dropping, and heart-warming all at the same time. I get chills
every time I watch this film and this film contains the greatest ending
(which takes place over the last 30 minutes or so)in movie history! How
it all just "comes together" is so incredible and uplifting. I should
also mention the music in this movie is nearly flawless as well, and
the soundtrack is a "must buy" for any music fan. The only bad thing
about this movie is the fact that I know I will never see a better
movie, no matter how many I may see. I've seen many movies over the
past few years, many excellent films. However, every time I walk out of
the theater, I turn to my friend or family member that I saw it with
and I say, "That was a great movie, but it wasn't nearly as good as
'you know what'!" There have been many movies over the past few years
that thought would really move me or that I might one day call my
"favorite of all time", but they've all fallen far short of "The
Shawshank Redemption". So, if you have yet to see this movie, please
run to the video store immediately. You're guaranteed to find it in the
"employee picks" section. And if it isn't in that section, then you
should tell the employees there that there is something seriously wrong
with them.

******
6 May 2015
10
This is a great movie. The entire movie is filled with life changing
themes that reveal how important integrity, friendship and hope is in
this world. One person with a big heart can make such a difference. For
being a simple drama without any real action, romance, or special
effects, Shawshank Redemption does a phenomenal job of drawing in the
viewer and creating intense scenes at every turn. The characters are
vivid and easy to relate to. When so many movies today revolve around
computer generated graphics, explosions, fight scenes, and sex, it is
refreshing to watch a movie that reminds us all of what life is really
about. Life sucks sometimes, but Andy looks past his circumstances in
order to better the world he was forced into. The friendships he makes
and the way in which Andy brightens up the world around him is
inspirational.

******
6 May 2015
9
The Shawshank Redemption title rendered little inspiration to actually
see the movie. It wasn't until word of mouth from those I trusted
finally encourage me to see this film. It started with the violent
death of his cheating wife and her lover by Andy Dufresne. He is
wrongly convicted and sentenced two consecutive life sentences. He is
sentenced to the fictional, but tough, Shawshank Penitentiary. As a
white collar guy in a tough prison Andy befriends two fellow inmates.
Morgan Freeman's poignant narration throughout the movie highlight the
story and gives it credence. Tim Robbins character is able to win the
favor and protection of the guards by using his financial skills to do
their taxes. That enable him to earn the trust of the prison warden to
do the books in a money laundering scheme.The ending of this movie has some very interesting twists and turns
highlighted by a graphic narrative from Morgan Freeman.

******
5 May 2015
8
Great Movie based upon a true story. Beautiful cinematography. shows
the life of a prisoner who is an innocent human being in reality. He is
accused of killing his wife and is later sent to jail but he is so
smart and intelligent that he's able to make himself calm for the whole
time he is in jail and also able to establish good relations with
every1 there including other prisoners. The turning point is when he
surprises every1 by escaping the jail through an underground tunnel
which he digs through the room where he is being kept. He crawls
through the tunnel and ultimately makes his way out of the prison cell
without being caught or detected by the guards. At the end of the film
he is seen as a free man at a remote location far away from his work
and home with loads of cash and wealth. Great story. Everyone must
watch it.

******
5 May 2015
10
Mind Blowing and superb work by the actors and all of the crew.Nice
Work!The way he escapes,showing love,using his mind e.t.cthe film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who is sentenced to
life in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover
despite his claims of innocence. During his time at the prison, he
befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, and finds himself
protected by the guards after the warden begins using him in his money
laundering operation.Despite being a box office disappointment, the film received multiple
award nominations and outstanding reviews from critics for its acting,
story, and realism.

******
4 May 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a film that plays out the story of Red's,
Morgan Freemans, experiences, encounters, and friendships while
imprisoned for murder. Red begins with his first encounter of Andy
Dufresne, Tim Robbins. Andy was quit peculiar in the way in which he
carried himself and his quietness, which intrigued Red. Andy requested
a rock hammer from Red, from then on Andy and Red's friendship began to
grow. The film shows the hardships prisoners experience, including
being jumped and raped by the "Sisters." But the film also displays
what good can be done within the prison, such as Andy, an experience
banker, volunteering to do taxes and give financial advice to the
guards in return for a better life behind bars for him and his friends.
Andy uses his privilege to rejuvenate the prison's library and offering
assistance to prisoners to obtain there high school equivalency. The
film is spanned out over 40 years, showing the long term sentences
these men have served. There are several themes as work in this film,
but the most prominent one is the power of hope. Throughout the movie,
glimmers of hope are expressed by the men but then soon shattered. The
beginning scene of the bet of which "New fish" would cry was soon
realized to be cruel and led to a prisoner's death. Throughout the
movie, Red (Freeman) had lost all hope. Red displayed this loss of hope
with his uncaring attitude displayed at his parole hearings. He had no
motivation to express to the board that he was a changed man and was
ready to return back to society. He said the same speech at almost
every hearing which lead to his denial until he later regained hope for
a brighter future and spoke of his regret to the parole board. Hope was
also displayed through music, the singing French woman and the
harmonica. A glimmer of hope was displayed for Red when his friend
escaped prison, this hope grew when he was unexpectedly granted parole.
Through Red's narrative, it seemed as his Red's fate was to be the same
as Brooks, "Institutionalized," but Red prevailed and pursued his long
lost friend, Andy. The letter that Andy left for Red under the lava
glass near the oak tree stated, "Hope is a good thing, maybe the best
of things, and no good thing ever dies." This changed Red, he now
understood the saying "Either get busy living, or get busy dying," and
he chose life. Symbols used throughout the film were rocks and pinup
posters of iconic women. Rocks were used ultimately to hide the true
purpose of the rock hammer, but they were also a symbol of hope and
normalcy. The posters of the iconic women, such as Rita Hayworth and
Marilyn Monroe, were posters to cover up Andy's true desire which was
to escape this unjust imprisonment and return to his normal life. An example of good sound effects is the scenes leading up to Brooks'
demise. The sound effects create a sense of understanding and realism;
soft music is played as her narrates his final letter to his friends
back at prison. Shots of the hustle and bustle of the city, cars
whizzing by and honking at Brooks, the noisy and bossy grocery manager.
In the final scene of him committing suicide, the noise of his pocket
knife is very prominent and creak of the chair as he mounts it to carve
his name in the rafter, and the sound of the chair being kicked away
and the tension on the rope is heard. This is very realistic and
somber. The music is soft which created an emotion of sadness and does
not drown out the important subtle noises. A movie that shares some of the same themes and motifs is Green fried
Tomatoes, this film portrays a significant amount of time and displays
the power of hope as well. In conclusion, this film displays the power of hope and how it effects
people when hope is lost. Andy's unwavering hope brings "light" to
others around him, possibly saving their lives.

******
3 May 2015
10
It is so awesome that is my top of mind movie to recommend. I have seen
the movie 3 times and do not get bored of it. It is everlasting. It
shows how humble and noble one can be even in situations like living in
a jail with unfair causes. Only good words for this movie and the cast.
Amazing job. Currently I am starting my new movie studios. I name it
Transcendence Mind Studios (TMS) I want that the new generation of
movies to involve deep messages of love, friendship, spirituality, etc.
But going back to the movie, is awesome how the budget can be less
expensive by filming in few places. Red's narration of the story allows
him to speak for all of the prisoners, who sense a fortitude and
integrity in Andy that survives the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He
will not back down. But he is not violent, just formidably sure of
himself. Love it.!

******
2 May 2015
2
*** This review may contain spoilers ***"The Shawshank Redemption" or "Shawshank" as I'm sure it's said to
death in the film is an elongated short story that just 'lingers' from
one hour to the next. There's no real 'charm' to the film except of
course 'dry wit' from Red as if it's the gospel according to Red. He
basically plugs Andy the entire movie as if he's his agent. "Now Andy
this" and "Andy that". Not to mention a walking brochure for
penitentiaries "Shawshank this" and "Shawhank that" his gospel just
never lets up.Now Tim Robbins was perfectly cast for about 5 minutes playing 'the
babe in the woods' who "looks like a stiff breeze would blow him over"
a "tall drink of water with a silver spoon up his ass". But once
nothing seems to break him, its definitely a part for Mel Gibson. Tim
Robbins didn't have the 'acting chops' to bring the 'required depth' to
this character. Fortunate for Robbins in post production Morgan Freeman
saved his ass with extensive voice overs. Most people think this was
premeditated but 'the truth' is Robbins gave such a wooden performance
it was necessary.Most people think this isn't your average prison drama ether because
its not about violence and melodrama. But 'the truth' is this film is
no better than your TV movie of the week that features a 'prison
escape'. The whole 'poster thing' couldn't be more 'implausible' if an
elephant hang from a cliff by a daisy. Don't let me get started on how
he just happened to have the cell on the end ether! The music was
'elevator music' at best. The only time I even took notice was when
they actually featured it in the plot And even then if I'd heard it id
have personally punctured my eardrums. Why the 'sound' was nominated
for an academy award is beyond me. If it weren't for packaging and
distribution this film would be a made for TV movie. Which it was if
you consider its box office taking against home rental.The entire cast reeked 'cartoon'. You have your 'evil' warden with his
'religion'. You have your 'mean' guards you 'grow to love'. Not to
mention 'the kid', 'the old guy', 'the black guy' and 'the guys'. The
prison was so stereotypical it even had 'fags'. Some other failings of
this 'pathetic' movie. The dialog was 'harebrained'. If it was supposed
to fascinate, well, it 'failed'. The manner in which the mini stories
unfolded was 'not stimulating'. His ability to get beers and do taxes
in particular 'sucked'.In short this film 'sucked'. Worst film 'since', well since ever!

******
2 May 2015
9
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is tall, lean, and a very successful Vice
President for a bank in Portland, Maine. Andy's wife (Renee Blaine) is
a beautiful and slim brunette who finally breaks her silence about her
love affair with Glenn Quentin (Scott Mann) a golf pro. She informs
Andy that she wants a divorce in Reno which he denied her. Now Andy
finds himself facing a judge and jury as he flashes back to a dark and
drunken night sitting in a wooden area at the end of a driveway in his
car with a trusty bottle of Rosewood liquor in one hand, a musical tone
"If I didn't care" (Jack Lawrence) playing in the background as a
reaches for his six shooter from the glove compartment. Andy's blank
face tells his version of his innocence; however, the neighbors plus
two dead bodies tell the other side of the story. The dead body of
Andy's wife and the golf pro give him two life sentences in the big
houseShawshank Prison! Andy arrives at Shawshank with the same blank facial expression that
granted him the bus ride to the prison. As the welcoming committee
provided a grand opening to the bus load of "Fresh Fish" inmates. This
single file march of leg irons clanking, feet shuffling across the
dusty prison yard, as fresh fish pass by the thunderous claps, and
yelling voices which intimated some of the new fish. Ellis Boyd "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman) placed a bet of 10 cigarettes on the new fish
named Andy Dufresne. Andy has a naive way of thinking, along with his
new normal routine of strolling the prison yard in search of smooth
rocks while keeping to himself. Andy finally breaks his silence after a
month and engages in a conversation with Red. Andy's life sentence was almost cut short while eavesdropping on a
conversation of the brutal Captain Hadley (Clancy Brown). Since Andy
befriends Red and his crew of intimates Brooks Hatlen (James Whitmore),
Heywood (William Sadler), Jigger (Neil Giuntoli), Floyd (Brian Libby),
and Skeet (Larry Brandenburg), he placed a request for a bottle of suds
after the rigged roof job is completed by this team of inmates. Andy
was able to do his "Real Job" again by performing banking services for
every prison guard in Shawshank. Although he longed for this new
freedom Andy still has to fight off his predator Boggs Diamond (Mark
Rolston). Andy is on the verge of losing his freedom due to his overzealous
attitude toward Warden Norton (Bob Gunton). The Warden provides Andy
with a few options while he spends two months in solitary confinement
to reset his mind and his mouth. This melodramatic crime film will have
your emotions racing as you cook up a new avenue for Andy to travel
down. The actors in "The Shawshank Redemption" have a more boisterous tone
compared to the relaxed spoken actors in "The Green Mile" John Coffey
(Michael Clark Duncan), Paul Edgecomb (Tom Hanks), Brutus "Brutal"
Howell (David Morse), "Wild Bill" Wharton (Sam Rockwell), Eduard
Delacroix (Michael Jeter), and Dean Stanton (Barry Pepper). The
lighting for these two melodramatic crime films are different. Both
John Coffey and Andy Dufresne are in prison for murder. Andy has more
of a dark shadow over his face at times probably due to depression and
when harm is coming his way. The lighting changes for him when he is
able to accomplish a "normal / human" side of his past. John Coffey has
a brighter atmosphere when is able to arouse those around him to think
outside the box and have a more positive attitude in their heart toward
life. John and Andy have to figure out which way to go in order to have
freedom while in prison.

******
2 May 2015
10
As far as I am concerned, I think it is a movie well worth watching. I
am a senior high school student in China, and I really do not have lot
of time to lead a free life as most of students abroad (stated in many
books and stories in China). As is known to many people, there exists a
strict examination (The National College Entrance Exam) in China, and
each student only have one chance to attend it during his/her lifetime,
so nobody will give it up and everyone is fighting for it.Just like Andy, Red and many other people in the Shawshank. Maybe most
of us living creatures do not have a real freedom.It is a jailbreak story in many people's eyes, but it isn't just like
that in my aspect. I regard it as a kind of redemption as the title of
the movie. As is stated in Oxford Dictionary, "REDEMPTION" is "the
action of saving or being saved from sin, error, or evil" or "a thing
that saves someone from error or evil". In my opinion, both of its
meaning was highlighted.I do not want to talk about this movie from performance, even if it is
the soul of a movie. But I think there must be a more important thing.Red is a man lost his heart, even if he is always speaking ill of the
guard, his eyes is like a silent street, he can bear anything, and he
will not have a quarrel, he sentenced himself to death. Though he said
he had been totally changed in the jail, nobody would like to APPROVE
him of get out of it. But when he tell them his true words inside his
heart, he was soon set free. It is just like a kind of joking, but I
think it is of high applause. I don't know how to express it in an
exact word in English, it means "血性" in Chinese.As for Andy, the other main character in this movie. He is an energetic
bird looking forward to freedom, which is wise enough as well. Carving
the wall, behind which is freedom. It takes him nineteen years. But it
is fair. In his past life, though he was freer than that in Shawshank,
he was also trapped. Trapped by his daily routines, by his wife's
abandon or by those business and title he earned. For many of us, one
should work until his sixties or older, and when he could enjoy his
life, there is not very much left exactly. Andy used nineteen years to
gain a freedom, and he got it faster than we.Maybe the western cannot get my idea, but in fact, a people in China
even need to work in his seventies. There are thousands of rooms left
empty, but most of people cannot have their own house in his whole
life. That is the reason why I am longing for freedom.Owing to the blessing of the god, I have my own house with my family,
we have cars. What's more, we do not have trouble in earning a living.
Maybe I could say I am a born First-Class, but too many of us cannot be
like that.WE NEED REDEMPTION.I have to say it is the Top-10 Movie I have ever watched. And it even
can be the best TWO out of all, the other one is Leon.

******
1 May 2015
8
The caption basically shows you my opinion of that movie. It is a top
film with a great storyline and perfectly described characters who are
performed by actors knowing their craft well. Furthermore I also praise
Darabont for turning King's short story into an almost 3-hour long
drama without losing the basic message of the book and its atmosphere.
Namely how different the two main characters are who represent a
certain life philosophy : Red is the pessimistic one who never raises
hope because life taught him that there is none but Andy is the total
opposite: He never loses his hope even in such a terrible place.
Nevertheless it is definitively NOT the best film of all time! Come on
my fellow IMDb voters, how can you deliberately ignore the other movie
masterpieces?! It is the without doubt the best prison movie (The Green
Mile?!) and also one of the best book-adaption but there a better
movies...admit it!!

******
1 May 2015
10
3576 reviews already in there .. what more can one possibly add ! and
still i have the urge to write one .. for i feel it would be injustice
not to ! the is my first review on IMDb .. and i'm very sure my last
one too !This movie is a CLASSIC in every sense of the word . i wonder if there
ever be another movie which brings about such a strong emotion from
within. i have never experienced something like THE SHAWSHANK
REDEMPTION ! and the most wonderful part about the movie is that it
stays with you .. the characters .. the actors .. the plot .. the
narration ! you can almost hear MORGAN FREEMAN every time you think
about this wonderful piece of work. please don't miss this .. please
watch it TODAY !

******
30 April 2015
10
So the shawshank redemption is a 1994 prison movie staring Tim Robbins
as former banker turned double murderer Andy Dufrense. When Andy's wife
and her lover are found murdered at a country club Andy is blamed and
sentenced to two back to back life sentences in the notorious Shawshank
State penitentiary ran by a sadistic head guard named Byrom Hadley as
well as the corrupt warden Samuel Norton. When Andy decides he wants a
rock hammer to carry on his hobby of shaping rocks he meets Ellis Boyd
"Red" Reading described as "a man who knows how to get things" Red is
also "the only guilty man in Shawshank" as all other inmates claim they
are innocent. Andy and Red quickly become friends as Andy repeatedly
tries to convince all the other inmates that remembering there are
places outside of Shawshank and they should not accept they may never
leave the prison. Andy then takes a young high school dropout named
Tommy under his wing to help him get his high school qualifications it
is this boy that brings forth the revelation of Andy's innocents after
telling the story of about a old cell mate who claims to have committed
an identical crime which he got away with. After Andy's young friend is
shot dead by Hadley Andy asks an inmate to get him a 6ft long piece of
rope. the next morning Andy does not show for roll call and Red fears
he has committed suicide however the do not find Andy hanging in his
cell like Red expected they do not find him at all the night before a
plan that took 19 years to get ready took place and Andy had escaped
Shawshank prison. This is by far one of the greatest movies of all time Frank Darabont
showcases his skill for the first of many times collaborating with
Stephen King this movie should definitely be brought on blu-ray right
now if you haven't seen it what are you waiting for.

******
30 April 2015
10
this movie is the highest rated since it has something that can keep a
viewer in touch with the word 'freedom'. some sequential incidences are
quite enough to remind us the complexity of life that are increasing in
modern times. even if someone is not habituated in some unwanted or
unpleasant places or circumstances, gradual involvement in those
situations can change everything.viewers can very easily reveal why this masterpiece is so famous
inconsiderable of generations, times and places. how much a hopeful
mind can go or what should s/he can do to pursue his/her ultimate aim.Morgan, you old boy is a great, just great. this is a must watch movie
for them who seek life into art-works.

******
29 April 2015
10
I admit it, not being a fan of prison movies and being puzzled by the
strange title, at first glance this film wasn't very appealing to me,
but it ranks #1 on IMDb and that made me curious. I also admit that at first I was disappointed, the beginning seemed
like another Hollywood cliché: man falsely convicted for murder, and it
all looked like yet another fight-for-your-proper-rights movie. But
after the first half hour I started realising that this is not a prison
movie, neither is it a movie about hope or friendship. The background
story is irrelevant for the main point of the film and could be
exchanged with any other story where someone finds himself in a place
of desperation. What is the true beauty of this movie is that it
comprises the wisdom of thousands of years of human history, starting
with the philosophical school of the ancient Greek and Roman Stoics and
Cynisists and leading to the modern work of psychologists like Viktor
Frankl. The film even plainly states the message in one scene, where
Andy says that the one thing they cant take away from you is the
freedom of thought and the freedom to chose your attitude. The first
night in prison, Andy does not utter a syllable, although everybody
expects him to break down as the apparent wimp he seems to be. Andy
truly lives Stoic principles, never loosing it, always ahead of
everybody's games. Because he is focused, not trying to change the
things he cannot change, like the sadism of the wards or the fact that
he most probably never will get parole, but step by step changing the
things he can, while being observant of the little tweaks and holes he
can exploit to his own advantage. At the end of the movie you realise
that he had a plan from day one, and with endurance and focus managed
to pull through. Also he never lets go of his guiding principles, which
makes him incredibly strong in such a harsh environment. Andy does not
simply hope to get released one day, he does everything in his power to
regain freedom, and through this attitude creates a leverage so strong
that he is even able to crush his enemies in the end. At the end also Red gets it, instead of trying to manipulate the
committee into giving him parole by telling them what he thinks they
want to hear, he speaks of the only thing he had the power to change,
his attitude towards life, and promptly gets released. The topic alone would be sufficient to propel this movie into the top
ten of the best films ever made, but it is further enhanced through a
captivating story and narrative, wonderful photography, and a superb
acting performance of practically every actor involved. Morgan Freeman
sticks out for me, because I admittedly have a weak spot for him, but
that does not diminish the contribution of the rest of the cast. I guess it will always remain debatable which movie is "the best", I
think one should not taint the extraordinary contribution of this movie
to film history with such petty discussions. Without the slightest
doubt this is one of - if not the - best movie(s) I've ever seen.

******
28 April 2015
10
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
28 April 2015
10
Why do so many people love this film? We see a story that offers us all
hope. There is hope, real hope, all of us can have. As a Christian, I
see many reflections of the Gospel in this film. It is interesting to
me, how so many love the film, yet reject Christianity and the message
it brings. Again, it's simply interesting. It may say more about the
Church than about those who love the movie. A question I always ask
myself, who has the greater redemption in the film, Andy or Red? On the
surface, many can see it as Andy. After all, he is wrongly convicted.
He goes to prison. He escapes. He has his ultimate redemption. One can
easily view the film in this light. However, I believe Red has the
greater redemption. Here is why. Andy is goes to prison without
committing the crime. Andy has a physical redemption. Yet, it is Andy
who always has hope, always has a plan, and always brings light. To his
inmates, to the world he inhabits. Red is guilty. His crime, his sin,
has pervaded into his life. He has lost hope of what might be. His life
is prison. He cannot escape, even as he gets out into the "real world."
He is still not redeemed, spiritually in his soul. Andy's journey
through the dark tunnel is a foreshadowing of the darker journey Red is
walking. And we don't know if Red will survive. Yet Red has a redeemer.
It is Andy. Andy never gives up on Red, even after he has escaped. He
does everything he can to keep connecting, communicating, and reaching
Red, to say to him - this is not the end, there is hope. You only have
to take a step. You have to get busy living. Red does. He finds hope.
He is truly redeemed. As a Christian, I see great connections between
this film and the Gospel. I see in this story large elements of the
Greatest Story. We have a Redeemer. He was without sin, He was not
guilty, yet He came to us, in a world filled with sin, darkness, and
death. He came to our Shawshank. He came to set the captives free. In
this world, He healed, He taught, He educated, He cared for, He
encouraged, He worked miracles. In this world, He continued to be
wrongly accused, persecuted, beaten, mocked, and sentenced to death
itself. He entered into the dark hole. He traversed through the darkest
tunnel we can imagine. He rose again. Yet this was not the end. It was
the beginning. The beginning of His work to continue reaching out to
us, communicating to us, doing everything He could to say there is
hope. He wrote us a letter in His Word, the Bible. He gave us the means
to take the journey, a bus in essence, by His Church. He promised He
would be there. And He is. He is waiting for us. He give hope and a
home. Now and forever. Red's redemption can be a portrait of our
greater redemption. We can say, like Red, "I find I'm so excited that I
can barely sit still or hold a thought in my head. I think it's the
excitement only a free man can feel. A free man at a start of a long
journey whose conclusion is uncertain." We can be free, truly. We can
have hope, fully. Now in the world. Forever, in the world to come. "Get
busy living." Well said, Red.

******
26 April 2015
10
So, I first would like to say that this was a very good movie. While
watching it I realized I was watching the highest rated movie in IMDb.
It definitely deserved that rank. I was hooked right from the
beginning. I will put an disclaimer for anybody who wants to see it that it being
a rated R movie there is vulgar language, violence and showing of
alcoholic beverages. Also there is a scene where there might be nudity
but from what I can remember I think the most you'll see is some guys
butts. The main plot of this movie is about a banker, Andy, who goes to prison
because he is accused of killing his wife. He meets a guy named Red and
they become best friends. This movie had the right amount of everything without having too much
of something. It had comedy, drama, action. When watching this movie it made me think. One of the things I thought
about is that life can change on the outside world when you're locked
up for so long in an enclosed space. You also can feel so out of place
that you'd rather go back to your enclosed space because that's all
that you know and feel comfortable with. The movie explains that if you
have hope then the outside world isn't too bad. This is a movie that I would recommend any adult to see. Even if you
think you might not like this movie or it's not your cup of tea I
believe you'll still enjoy it by the time you finish watching the film.

******
25 April 2015
10
This movie show's me many things about life. Everyone who didn't
watched it must watch it at least one time in his lifetime. The actor
play is on professional level. The things that this movie want to tell
to all of the watcher are things that many people aren't learned still
from life. Movies in top10 from top250 which are from 90's must be
watched from everyone no matter young, old, white or black. Watching
this movie it gives me one beautiful adventure. Every time when I think
about this movie my mood gets better. In everyone hard moment I think
about it and e feel much better. The rating of this move is not chance
it's real.

******
25 April 2015
10
Do I need to tell anything else? No, but I will, in Portuguese. The
Shawshank Redemption was released over 20 years and is still the best
of all. For many years simply ranks first in the Top250 IMDb. The
performances of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are sensational. The
plot, based on a short story by Stephen King, is exquisite. The
director, Frank Darabont, also directed "The Green Mile", which,
incidentally, is also based on a short story by Stephen King. The most
wronged film in Oscar history. Gave chance to compete with another
fantastic movie, Forrest Gump, which was more commercial, mainly
because of the participation of Tom Hanks, who was high at the time,
since it came from films such as Philadelphia and Sleepless in Seattle.

******
25 April 2015
10
Andy Dufrene a banker who was convicted of murdering his wife and her
lover which he constantly denies .He is sent for life sentence to
shaw-shank state penitentiary where he befriends prison contraband
smuggler, Ellis "Red" Redding and spends his time doing unconventional
thing to keep himself sane.The movie is narrated through the voice of red played brilliantly
Morgan freeman who is the prison contraband supplier .Throughout out
the movie we see red narrating many prisoners of shaw-shank but mostly
focuses on Andy.The Entire movie focuses on various major activities of
Andy through out his time in prison. the story also focuses on the
subject of the mind state of a long time prisoners their inability to
know whats their purpose outside prison ,unless they don't have proper
support their only chances are either going back to prison or death.This is a true master-piece from frank Darabont (direction and screen
play) and Stephen king .This movie is a 142 minute master- piece
.please don't miss this movie

******
25 April 2015
10
This is simply one of the best films ever made and I know I am not the
first to say that and I certainly won't be the last. The standing on
the IMDb is a true barometer of that. #3 as of this date and I'm sure
it could be number 1. So I'll just skip all the normal praise of the
film because we all know how great it is. But let me perhaps add that
what I find so fascinating about Shawshank is that Stephen King wrote
it.What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it
conveys. It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim
Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he
never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man
again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane,
but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a
different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and
I don't know if there will again.I'm not going to say any more about this film, it has already been
said, but just suffice to say that I am glad that Forrest Gump won best
picture in 94. I would have been equally glad if Pulp Fiction or
Shawshank would have won. It is that good of a movie and one that will
be appreciated for years to come.

******
24 April 2015
10
One of my favorite movies of all time. Powerful,thought-provoking and
finally irresistibly uplifting. Thanks to quietly dignified
performances and Darabont's own inventive direction, The Shawshank
Redemption remains a first class example of how to approach potentially
weighty issues with conviction, style, lightness and wit. Shawshank is
one of those rare movies that defines the whole reason I love films. It
tells a fantastic story, masterfully written, acted, and directed. You
can't help but become emotionally invested in the characters and story,
and because of that, the film leaves you emotionally drained by the
film's end, but still with a sense of hope.

******
24 April 2015
10
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive life terms
in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is sentenced to
a tough prison. However, only Andy knows he didn't commit the crimes.
While there, he forms a friendship with Red (Morgan Freeman),
experiences brutality of prison life, adapts, helps the warden, etc.,
all in 19 years A great movie unrepeatable, The Shawshank Redemption is
a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont and
starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. Adapted from the Stephen King
novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the
story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who is sentenced to life in Shawshank
State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his
claims of innocence. During his time at the prison, he befriends a
fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, and finds himself protected by
the guards after the warden begins using him in his money laundering
operation

******
22 April 2015
10
This movie was truthfully amazing. When I first saw it, I was like,
Frank Darabont, you've done it. You created the best movie ever. The
story is full of surprises and you are really going to love these
characters along the way. The beginning of the movie I found rather
slow, but when it progresses into the story, it really amazes you. I
would definitely recommend this movie to all of my friends and everyone
I know, because it's that good. Of course there are a view things that
doesn't go well with the movie, but every movie has that. This is
really the best movie ever made. It deserves a 9.3 rating on IMDb. I
think its rather sad that these kind of movies are no longer made.
Hollywood only plays it safe with a lot of sequels and reboots. There
hasn't been a movie like this one in a long time. I hope Hollywood will
produce more of these movies and if the do, I hope they are as good as
this one.

******
22 April 2015
9
The Shawshank redemption is probably still the best movie ever made.
The pacing of the movie, the script and the terrific acting of actors
like Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are just perfect. Frank Derabont
did a fantastic job with the screenplay and the directing of the film.
(A short story of no less then Stephen King).The movie takes you into the human side of living in a prison. Rather
than gang banging thugs, which makes it a very fresh experience. The
emotions that Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins bring to the screen feel
real as they bond through the years. It's amazing and a must watch.If you don't have this movie in your collection, shame on you. There is
absolutely no valid reason not to like this movie. And this movie being
on the top of IMDb top250 charts is just proof of that. At this point
your still reading this review..., and all I'm thinking is that you are
wasting your time by NOT watching this movie. Go, Hurry, what are you
waiting for?

******
21 April 2015
10
This movie is a cult classic, so. so many memorable lines, so many good
actors, such good directing and such a brilliant plot, such an
inspiration for a lots of movies after this, i wish i had something bad
to say about this movie, i actually enjoy finding faults with movies,
but i can honestly say after seeing it, rethinking it and re- watching
it, i can say a movie like this is a 10/10 ,not the BEST movie in
history, i don't know if you can choose any movie for that title but it
would be in the top 10 movies ever made. And i think i'm a pretty
judgmental person, i nitpick the slightest bit of a continuity error
and if a movie is 10/10 i would drop a point just for that 1 mistake.
And i'm not like ''OMG THIS IS THE BEST MOVIE EVER AND NO ONE CAN PROVE
ME OTHERWISE!!!!' no, a movie might come around that is probably
better, i think there are 1 or 2 that are better already but plot and
twist-wise, this is the best in that category, this movie is really
REALLY worth seeing.

******
19 April 2015
4
By now, everyone is aware of the legacy of THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION.
It's a movie that was criminally overlooked upon its initial release,
overshadowed by other movies that year like FORREST GUMP and PULP
FICTION. The performances of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are the
stuff of Hollywood legend, and the movie put Frank Darabont on the map.All of that being said, however, the movie is missing one thing that
would have instantly propelled it into the stratos of fame when it was
first released: Jeff Goldblum. Imagine, if you will, the character of
Andy Dufresne as portrayed by one of Hollywood's most charismatic and
adorably dorky leading men. Goldblum would have certainly brought
something special to the table, something that the public clearly
noticed was missing, hence why it took so long for the film to be
recognised as a masterpiece. Also of note is that the character 'Red', portrayed originally by
Morgan Freeman, could also have been instead played by Jeff Goldblum.
His trademark stutter, the sign of a man whose brain perhaps moves more
quickly than his mouth can keep up with (though he is certainly a fast-
talker!) would have lent a subtle humor to such classic moments as the
narration describing Dufresne's escape. Alas, that isn't something
we're ever likely to see, and will be forever left wondering: What if?Finally, although there is little evidence to support this claim, I
feel as if the movie would have greatly benefited from Jeff Goldblum's
direction. He so clearly knows what to do in front of the camera that
one can only assume he has quite a bit of knowhow behind it as well. In
my semi-professional opinion, and with no disrespect meant to Frank
Darabont (whose adaptation of THE MIST is, despite its lack of Jeff
Goldblum, an amazing horror film), this movie is absolute garbage
compared to what it could have been were it directed by Jeff Goldblum.My vote: 4 stars out of 10, at least until a Director's Cut is released
with all actors and credits replaced with Jeff Goldblum.

******
19 April 2015
10
I have never seen a movie this long, but this. Normally I watch around
1 hour movies, but this I watched and loved it. This is film as art, at
it's very best. The depth of the cast is extraordinary, with all of the
players delivering excellent performances. I will say it is as close to
perfection as a movie can be. The acting is amazing, and the ending was
brilliant. For me, all my guesses were incorrect. Everything that
happens in this movie is unpredicted. I've watched hundreds of films
throughout my short 29-year history but I must say this is the best
movie I had ever watch. I cannot say it enough. This is The film of all
time. Watch it, and you'll see. And anyone who hasn't seen it or who
thinks that don't like it I seriously suggest seeing it or seeing it
again. It truly is amazing.

******
19 April 2015
7
7/10By submitting this review you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our
Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your own original work.
Your review will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business
days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted.
Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported
though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line
between paragraph.By submitting this review you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our
Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your own original work.
Your review will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business
days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted.
Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported
though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line
between paragraph.

******
19 April 2015
10
There are thousands of written reviews for this film on this website
and the majority of them positive. I know I am just adding to this long
list of positive reviews, but I feel this film deserves to be my first
review on this website. While this film may not be my favourite film, it is most definitely a
film I respect. When I was young and watching 'The Goonies' and 'Back
to the Future' I thought films were only made to entertain and were not
made to convey a clear message about humanity. This film was the first
film I watched that made me understand that the film medium could
provide the world with such philosophical messages and could teach
young people, like me, that life must be valued. Pretty deep right?
Well this is the message that the film carries. Red values Andy's friendship and life. He does not want him to die and
wants him to survive and when I was watching this film I thought...
wow! Two prisoners, one who definitely killed another person, can be so
rational and kind. I learnt from this film that the world is a horrible
place and emotions can get the better of people; but through it all, it
is about moving on and making sure that one is not affected by the
emotional trauma that has arrived at their front door and instead take
that trauma and improve themselves and other people like Andy did
throughout the film. By the end, when Red and Andy are embracing on the
beach, free, I see two men who have been through years of pain and
self-pity clear of all negative thoughts; I see two friends that
through all the emotional trauma that we see them going through are
still strong.Now I can talk about themes and the impact that this film had on me all
day long, but I have to praise everyone involved in this film. Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman embody their characters perfectly and when I
watch it now as a 17 year old who has seen his fair share of great
performances these stick out as real people and not simply a
performance. Frank Darababont, who not only directed the film but also
wrote it, crafts a film that is very entertaining to watch but that
also conveys these themes effortlessly and writes some very memorable
lines that really affect one's perspective on human nature. The scene
with Brooks is a scene that had me close to tears and that showed me
the impact of being 'institutionalized'.Anyway, I have said enough about this film. It is very good and really
pushed me into seeing films in a different light. If you want to read
any more reviews or my list on my favourite films of all time please
check me out. Thank you for reading this.

******
19 April 2015
10
This is my favourite Movie ever. This movie is a great adaptation of
the Stephen King novel.WARNING SPOILERS BELOW The Shawshank Redemption stars Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman and Bob
Gunton. This movie is about Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who has been
convicted of the murder of his wife and her lover, even though he is
innocent. He is sent to Shawshank Prison and bonds with Ellis 'Red'
Redding. Because Andy is a banker, the guards and warden use him to
sort out their financial information, Andy becomes sick of being used
and plans escape. Characters: This movie has such depth to each character and makes you
feel for everyone. Everyone gas such a unique personality and it makes
the movie greater than it already is. Setting: The setting has a very dark atmosphere because of all the bad
this that happen there but when Red and Andy have their talks between
each other, you forget about all that and it seems nice.Story: The story BY FAR is one of the best I've ever seen. The story is
so amazing it has so much descriptive detail and includes all the
characters in the story.Verdict: This movie is the best one I have ever seen. It is my
favourite Movie ever HANDS DOWN. I highly recommended this movie to
anyone. 10/10 for me

******
18 April 2015
10
Parents need to know that this movie is rated R for a reason: The
gritty world of Shawshank Prison is populated with sadistic guards, a
corrupt warden, and predatory fellow inmates. Two characters have sex
(their clothes are on, and it's not graphic), one lovable character
hangs himself, guards shoot an inmate and frame it as an escape
attempt, inmates attempt and, we are told, succeed in raping Andy, and
guards beat and kill an inmate in the opening scenes. But the film also
shows inmates forming a loving community of friendship and support
despite oppressive conditions.-Common Sense Media

******
18 April 2015
10
Firstly I love this film. It's a story about hope and dreams and one
whose emotional impact is as great as the Pacific Ocean is blue.The
Shawshank Redemption is a perfectly woven, superbly performed, and
flawlessly shot cinematic masterpiece that is sure to never be
forgotten. Along with Darabont's other prison outing, The Green Mile,
he has crafted a pair of subtly affecting dramas with real heart.
Shawshank, however takes the prize. Phenomenal stuff. Interesting that
although the hero of the film is the convicted former banker Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is never seen from his point of
view. The film's opening scene shows him being given two life sentences
for the murder of his wife and her lover, and then we move,
permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and
particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman). It is his
voice remembering the first time he saw Andy ("looked like a stiff
breeze would blow him over"), and predicting, wrongly, that he wouldn't
make it in prison.From Andy's arrival on the prison bus to the film's end, we see only
how others see him - Red, who becomes his best friend, Brooks the old
librarian, the corrupt Warden Norton, guards and prisoners. Red is our
surrogate. He's the one we identify with, and the redemption, when it
comes, is Red's. We've been shown by Andy's example that you have to
keep true to yourself, not lose hope, bide your time, set a quiet
example and look for your chance. "I guess it comes down to a simple
choice, really," he tells Red. "Get busy living' or get busy dying'."The key to the film's structure, I think, is that it's not about its
hero, but about our relationship with him - our curiosity, our pity,
our admiration. If Andy had been the heroic center, bravely enduring,
the film would have been conventional, and less mysterious. But we
wonder about this guy. Did he really kill those two people? Why does he
keep so much to himself? Why can he amble through the prison yard like
a free man on a stroll, when everyone else plods or sidles?

******
18 April 2015
5
Awesome!!! Movie Great There appear to be spelling mistakes in your
review. Some suggestions have been made if you wish to correct them,
but you do not need to do so to submit your review. Select the correct
words from the menus and they will be replaced for you. By submitting
this review you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright
Statement. Your submission must be your own original work. Your review
will normally without warning readers, your name will be added to a
blacklist and all your future reviews will be discarded automatically
and unread. See the By submitting this review you are agreeing to the
terms laid out in our Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your
own original work. Your review will normally be posted on the site
within 2-3 business days.

******
18 April 2015
10
I am not sure if it is the right word to use for a movie review but I
can say that it is a movie of satisfaction. Realistic, very well set
scenario and deserves 10/10 for the rating. Somehow throughout the
movie, you are able to see and feel the emotions the actors do feel and
that creates a bond between you and the movie. When I say realistic I
mean that the events do not always take place in the way you want and
sometimes you even come to a stage you lose hope on behalf of the
people acting but somehow those events are later shown to be the steps
for the greater purpose. Then you say to yourself, there could be good
in what you see evil, there could be evil in what you see good. The
movie teaches a lot of life experience.

******
18 April 2015
10
Superb. Great. Masterpiece. Unforgettable. Excellent.Brilliant. No, no , no. I have been thinking for months to find a word
that can describe the film. Nothing's found yet and , to be honest, I
think nothing will be found forever.The movie can't be expressed by words. Words are unable to talk about
it and I have nothing to say about this masterpiece. But I'm hopeful to
be able one day to express my feelings about it because "hope is a good
thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies" When it
come to the Shawshank Redemption, I prefer to remain silent because
"silence is full of unspoken words"

******
17 April 2015
10
Best movie I've ever seen. I keep this movie on auto-play. Great
casting. Tim Robbins portrayal of Andy Dufresne, an innocent man in
prison, who has to break the law while in prison, to live a free life
as a fugitive on the run, outside of prison. James Whitmore as Brooks Hatlin, gave a wonderful performance as a man
who spent his whole life as a caged bird, once given his wings, he has
forgotten how to fly free. Instead of living in a cage again, he opted
for a pine box. A solitary man, in a solitary cage, for all eternity. Knowing that the character of Ellis "Red" Redding, in the book, is
supposed to be a middle-aged Irish man, Frank Darabont's casting of
Morgan Freeman solidified this character and brought to life the
authoritative demeanor that only Morgan Freeman could pull off. There
were many other actors who were considered for the role of "Red" but
Morgan Freeman pulled off a commanding performance.Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne, was a great casting coup. Seeing him play
an innocent man who is forced to conspire with the prison warden, in
order to be free of the resident prison bullies, commit money
laundering, in order to plan the perfect jailbreak and live life
outside of prison as a free man, with a new identity that is "the 3rd
cousin to Harvey the Rabbit."Clancy Brown as Capt. Byron Hadley, the sadistic jail warden, who gets
off on beating prisoners who don't do what he says. Great character
actor. William Sadler & Bob Gunton are another great character actors. Bob
delivers a great role as a "holier than thou," bible-thumping Christian
with greed & corruption on the brain. In the end, Karma serves her
justice in the form of a .38 to the head. the movie is full of suspense and has you rooting for the "innocent"
guy at the end. Worth watching over and over again.

******
17 April 2015
10
An emotional ride with truly believable characters which have more
heart than most modern movies. well worth its position at top of the
table... a masterpiece, a movie which all movies fail to reach, it
doesn't need superhero's or special effects, it just has a solid story
which could happen to anyone, a fluidity which speeds by and left you
wanting more at the end... what happens?... we all want to see how the
lives of each of the main characters turn out at the end.. we know
(Spoilers) they meet up after prison.. but how do they spend the rest
of their lives?... together forever?.. or just a passing visit.. a
movie this length which wants you to see even more.. is groundbreaking
.. anyone who has not seen this movie.. shame on you all.. if your on
netflix tonight and dunno what to watch this is the movie for you and
trust me you shall not be disappointed.. Morgan freeman's voice alone
should merit a watch.. Tim Robbins.. a role of his career

******
16 April 2015
9
This is simply marvelous entertainment that breathes life into a genre
that I thought had been dead for a decade-the prison picture. But to
call "The Shawshank Redemption" a prison picture is as accurate as
calling "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" a hospital picture. Those are
the settings of these similar films, but they really are inspirational
dramas of individuals struggling against overbearing authority. Tim
Robbins, one of our best, most casual, young actors, plays a banker in
the 1940s who is falsely sent to Shawshank Prison for the death of his
wife and her lover. In this maximum security penitentiary, Robbins is
harassed by the warden, beaten by guards, and sexually abused by
inmates. The first and best friend he makes is the elder statesman of
the yard, a longtime convict played by the great Morgan Freeman. Over
time, Robbins will make other friends, some of whom will be absolutely
paralyzed by freedom in the straight world. Even better than "Birdman
of Alcatraz," "The Shawshank Redemption" creates the world of
overbearing closure that is prison. "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest"
was set in confinement, too, and like that story, the narrative drive
of "The Shawshank Redemption"- based on a story by the prolific Stephen
King-is a journey of freedom, physical and psychological. "The
Shawshank Redemption" comes out of nowhere in the sense that it is a
first feature film by Frank Darabont, who, with this one work, declares
himself a special talent. He adapted King's story for the screen and
insisted on directing the story too, much in the same way that
Sylvester Stallone could not be pried loose from "Rocky." Guts equals
glory. "The Shawshank Redemption" is playing at the Water Tower and Old
Orchard Theaters. If you can't get into see "Quiz Show," this should be
your next choice.

******
12 April 2015
10
Well how i can start, before watching the movie for the first time i
told myself that i would be fare and judge the movie far from the fact
that it is ranked no.1 on IMDb , so here it is I opened it and couldn't
move away from the screen for 142 minutes, it is not just any movie it
is honestly a piece of art ! The movie talks about friendship, love ,
crime , passion, corruption but the most important of all is HOPE,
"hope is a dangerous thing" that is the fact we should all know, but
how many of us can face the danger? Which amazed me more in the movie
that it gave us the fact that some people are dead even if they look
alive, because if we don't live as we want we are already dead people!
Yes it is the best movie I've ever watched, and I wish to see other
masterpieces from Darabont in the near future.

******
11 April 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the most deep, incredible,
inspiring, and beautiful films ever made, I cannot watch this movie
without a pure smile on my face from the greatness and genius of this
film. After being convicted of murdering his wife, something he denies,
smart and banker Andy Duffrain (Tim Robbins) is sent to Shawshank
prison, which is run by a corrupt warden (Bob Gunton). He makes friends
with some of the inmates but his closest relationship is with Red
(Morgan Freeman) a wise lifer who is a you want it, he can get sort of
guy. After many years there, and after the last straw from the warden,
Andy does something that will be remembered throughout the history of
Shawshank prison. The lot of this film is equally incredible with story
and characters, we love whats going on the entire film because every
moment is important to the ending of the film, and the characters of
the movie are just perfection, Andy and Red as best friends is probably
the greatest friendship I have ever seen a film and that makes it
impossible to dislike them and how colorful and fun the supporting
characters are, what an incredible and beautiful movie that shows the
horrors of prison. The cast is just incredible, Tim Robbins plays his
most memorable and best performance of his career if you ask me, and
Morgan Freeman has also his greatest role to date and truly deserved
his Oscar as much as everyone else that year, they were just
incredible. The score of the film is not just amazing, that is not
saying enough to how beautiful and masterful the music was, every
minute this music was playing gave the movie its feel that made it feel
like a real drama I think. The Shawshank Redemption is one of the most
intense and incredible dramas you will ever see, I am not resenting
when I say this is my favorite drama film of all time and always will
be, Frank Darabont has made many Stephen King adaptions but this is his
best and his masterpiece, if you need a very inspirational and
incredible film, I need you to see this film.

******
11 April 2015
10
Most often when we see a prison film, we think of Oz with a bunch of
ruthless convicts, shower rape, and cartons of cigarettes. Shawshank
gives a much different perspective. While it has subtle notes of the
norm, there is much more emphasis on how one does and passes time, hard
time, in a penile system wrought with conflicts. We have a true
innocent--a well-read and good-hearted man, Andy Dufresne, caught up in
a prepubescent justice system, void of forensic evidence and ballistic
reports, teeming with graft and greed on the behalf of the "God-
fearing" warden. In this world, the guards are more murderous than the
inmates, friends stick together more than families, and becoming
conditioned to the system gives parolees nightmares about their
impending freedom. This story is akin to The Count of Monte Cristo and
Alexandre Dumas even gets a brief shout-out in a library scene. For
more reason than I can state in this brief review this is one of the
best movies I have ever seen, and one of a seldom group to which I have
given a perfect rating. It is worth the two hours of screening time and
you will find yourself rooting for Andy and Red to the very end.

******
10 April 2015
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont. ~ Mark Deming, Rovi

******
9 April 2015
10
A true cinematic experience rarely give you is to live a life. A
masterpiece that takes you through all possible feelings and makes you
want to never end. But, alas, all good things end too quickly is found,
as in this case. Frank Darabont certainly has its place set for.
eternity with cinema heavyweights, as Stephen King can be considered
one of the best contemporary writers; Tim Robbins made the role his
career and Morgan Freeman Morgan Freeman's, that is simply good. A
must-see film at least once !!!One of the best movies ever made and one of my all time favorites. He
manages to capture your attention from the very first frame and keep
you connected almost 2 and a half hours. Best part made by Robbins and
Morgan Freeman a sensational that the voice and his way of being shown
a steady state of maturity and peace of mind. Frank Darabont filmed
exceptional novel as a great writer Stephen King and deserves its place
among the great values of cinema. A movie not to be missed for any art
lover and one of the film that deserves at least two viewings.

******
8 April 2015
9
nice dig good to see someone made it our alive damn i wasted 2 hours of
my life. nice dig good to see someone made it our alive damn i wasted 2
hours of my life. nice dig good to see someone made it our alive damn i
wasted 2 hours of my life. nice dig good to see someone made it our
alive damn i wasted 2 hours of my life. nice dig good to see someone
made it our alive damn i wasted 2 hours of my life. nice dig good to
see someone made it our alive damn i wasted 2 hours of my life. nice
dig good to see someone made it our alive damn i wasted 2 hours of my
life. nice dig good to see someone made it our alive damn i wasted 2
hours of my life. nice dig good to see someone made it our alive damn i
wasted 2 hours of my life.

******
8 April 2015
10
This movie is based on a novella by Stephen King, but don't let that
put you off. It's not a horror film, rather a thumpingly good ode to
friendship, hope, wit, wiles and wisdom, brimming with crackling
characters and topped with the most twisteroo of twists since The
Crying Game. Found guilty of killing his unfaithful wife and her lover
in a fit of passion, sullen accountant Andy Dufresne (Robbins, casting
off his goofball image to display more layers than the proverbial
onion) is shipped to the Gothic wind-swept corridors of the Shawshank
State Prison for life. It is here the movie gracefully unfolds. With a
beautifully rounded script, writer/director Darabont conjures up a
spellbinding personal odyssey stretching through the years from 1946 to
1967. Dufresne, all the while protesting his innocence, slowly overcomes the
hellfire tortures of the prison system - an unblinking range of
beatings, rapings and abject humiliations - while managing to inspire
his fellow inmates to lift their degraded horizons. Among them is Red
(Freeman, in a matchless supporting role), the lifer who can, given
time, provide virtually anything. And for reasons best known to
himself, Dufresne requires 40s starlet Rita Hayworth, provisioned in
poster form. The mood swings rigorously through every emotion as the cranky, wiseguy
and downright crazed array of criminals bare the brunt of the turbulent
life within the doomy Shawshank catacomb. Then it gets really mean,
gearing up for its injury-time shockers. Dufresne, a whiz with figures,
is bullied into running the warden's (Gunton) petty accounting scams,
giving him the chance to execute his and the film's final, greatest
miracle. If you're miserable enough to look for gripes then, yes, it does drift
on too long and who needs prison buggery again? Yet the ending has such
poetic completeness you're too busy contentedly chuckling to worry
about sore behinds. This may have confounded American audiences - it
flopped big-time on planet Yank - but a more divine movie experience
you will not find this side of Oscardom. Spread the word.

******
7 April 2015
9
Great planning from the beginning to end I appreciate his planning A
hope is always keeps a man alive rather it would complete or not but
hope always has a helping hand to human to be positive and keep
struggle for their destination and be strategic for his planning this
movie also shown the long term planning which is positive and legit
when i hear about this movie i thought it would be boring movie and
when i sit to see it it is actually boring in starting you have to wait
for new climax in the movie after half of the movie i got interest to
watch what would Andy do if he fails to flee from prison but it keeps
interest with Andy's long strategy for years and eventually he
accomplished with his mind blowing planning to get new identity and
full bank balance of jailer well it's a great movie to watch

******
6 April 2015
9
Mr. King always knows how to tell a tale of horror and suspense very
well, that is no different for The Shawshank Redemption. It a thriller
to the max and had me jumping out of my seat periodically throughput
the movie. On the movie itself i admired the script and the way they
drew you in and consumed you into their perspective. Kings movies
always have a way to confuse you which is an admiring move being that
the plot twists are what make a great movie. In my opinion he could
have threw in a little less suspense and the movie still would have had
as much of a phenomenal turnout. The quality is fantastic. Not
everyones perspectives are the same so i suggest you go ahead and give
the movie a watch for yourself!

******
4 April 2015
10
I like watching movies,that's one of things I like doing in my free
time. I prefer watching movies which have a critical acclaim,some of
them have been popular for the moral or for the twists.it either
touches your heart or blows your mind,but this movie does both and very
efficiently. Just when you start imagining what the end is going to be
like,the twist seriously blows your mind away. Hatsoff to the script
and brilliant execution and to add a cherry to the cake the
performances by the lead actors.this is the second movie I have ever
reviewed and I had to do it. No wonder this is at the top of list when
it comes to the ratings. It's sad we don't have a lot of movie's like
this one. It really shows if you have hope then no situation is too
hard, too adverse to come out of it. It might take some time, but it's
worth it. It's better to even die trying than to live regretting.

******
3 April 2015
10
The film I watched it several times, every time is not the same
feeling, perhaps this is the charm of the film. This film is not simply
to evaluate how, only to see their own to realize what is really
classic. It is difficult to have relevance and meaning of these two
words interpretation of dreams and save a movie can be better than "The
Shawshank Redemption", the movie to bring psychological shock and
washing has never been so deep, two lines and two black male
protagonist Andy Reed together created a dream about freedom and soul
save the best story, when the movie, can not help feeling compared to
Andy's experience, we seem to be in a life but the ridge could be what,
this is the temperature of the film, in fact the life has a dream, even
if failure, as long as the heart has the dream, we will be able to get
the hope of salvation.

******
2 April 2015
9
You want a Connection with Movie ? You want a story that should
continue in the movie ? You want to connect your Emotions with the
movie ? "Hope"is the Answer For The Shawshank Redemption Simple
approach yet dramatic appeal . The Answer - HOPE is the displayed with
classical touch of relation to the character and human spirit. Life Can
break your Knees but your mind can stand up bright if you have hope is
the best message passed on by The Shawshank Redemption through the
movie. Mr Director has a simple way of conveying the idea of plot by
properly justifying the characters and their role with qualities they
en role.

******
1 April 2015
10
First off this is my first review, so i'm sorry if this review will not
be that good or interesting but hey, let's give it a shot.There's only 23 films that i've given a 10/10. In order to earn that
rating film must affect me personally, have interesting characters,
great plot and all the things that make a great movie. Shawshank is one
of those films and it's not just one of my favorite films of all time,
it might just be my favorite out of all movies i have watched
(currently)So what's the plot? Banker named Andy Dufresne (played by Tim
Robbins)is sent to the shawshank Penitentiary for murdering his wife.
There he makes some new friends, but also some enemies along the way.
It's pretty simple at first, but after a while some gangs in the prison
starts to harass Andy, Conspiracies, Corruption and many other things
that i can't spoil in this review.Tim Robbins does a great job playing Andy, and Morgan Freemans role
playing his fellow cellmate Ellis "Red" Redding is also one of the best
of his career. Supporting cast also deserves a mention. None of the
performances were really bad, so you can really immerse yourself into
the film. You will not see any actors just reading their lines, You see
only the characters in this prison. You simply just get lost into this
film right from the beginning.Next i want to talk about cinematography.Almost every shot is
constructed beautifully and and kept steady. Frank Darabount really
nailed the prison setting and how it should be filmed. It's not
anything mindblowing but it does the job especially well. Last thing i want to mention is why i enjoy this movie so much? Well
all the things i mentioned earlier sure do help but one thing that
makes this movie a classic for me, is the ending It's simply
perfection. It explains how strong a friendship can be, How you can
make your dreams come true even if the circumstances are horrible. It's
one of my favorite endings to any story i have ever seen or read.So what more can i say? Go see this movie and get sucked into it just
like i did, and always will.So yeah there's my first review. Hope it was OK. If not, well there's
always a second chance, just like in this film.

******
1 April 2015
8
I love the way actors impersonate inmates and the whole atmosphere is
gorgeous.In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is
convicted of a double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his
innocence. He's sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison
in Maine, where another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman),
picks him as the new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure.
The ugly realities of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a
corrupt warden (Bob Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley
(Clancy Brown), and inmates who are little better than animals, willing
to use rape or beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not
crack: he has the hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his
smarts) allow him to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to
win favor with the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's
illegal business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most
of the prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison
library and bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates,
including Red.

******
31 March 2015
10
Shawshank Redemption is hands down one of the best movies that I've
ever seen and probably will be one of my favorite movies of all time. I
think what really made this movie stand out to me was how vividly all
the actors portrayed their roles. The warden, Andy, red, brooks, the
officers, the homosexual men. All these personas portrayed by the
various actors gave life to the story and to each and every moment
within a movie. It truly is a 10 of 10 IMO. Also I think I simply
enjoyed how Andy got what he deserved after he escaped from prison.
There's a lot to say about the plot and all the actors but I really
became enamored by Andy as a character and just seeing him free made me
enjoy the movie that much more.

******
31 March 2015
10
the best movie ever. I really enjoyed the music and cinematography in
the film. I can definitely relate to the characters in the film. I can
close my eyes and envision myself in their reality. Such a wonderfully
written movie with a very inspiring storyline. I would recommend this
film to my children and my generations to come. the only downfall is
the movie is quite long and there are plenty of parts that needed to be
edited out and put in the "Deleted Scenes" section. I lost my
grandmother when I first watched this film and it made me think a lot
about life and about my meaning of existence. This movie inspired me
into thinking and viewing the world in a wider sense and with an open
mind.

******
31 March 2015
8
I enjoy this movie and have seen it multiple times. My only issue with
the movie is that the character, Red (Morgan Freeman) is not accurate
for the time period of the movie. I seriously doubt that Red because of
his race would be such a leader of all inmates in the 1940's. And, the
"go to" inmate for buying items? I doubt it. Some strong willed white
inmate would have corned that market. He might have been a leader of
the African Americans in the prison, but not the whites. Now before
that starts some race debate about the topic, I only am pointing out
how the times were in the 1940's, 50's, etc. My issue with that topic is that I think we should accurately portray
society as it was no matter how ugly it was, not as we wish it had
been.

******
31 March 2015
9
its one of the I liked the first Blade film if slightly. It was a fun
movie with some very cool moments, but didn't live up to the hype. The
third, 'Trinity' is a mind-numbing disaster. Oh the difference a good
director can make! Guillermo del Toro (Cronos, Hellboy) has the reigns
here and clearly had a good time with the movie: it briskly bounces
from one energetic action sequence to the next, with a fair number of
frightful sights thrown in to liven things up. This is a good thing --
with a wafer-thin plot that takes enough turns to keep your attention,
Del Toro knows exactly what kind of movie he's making: a pure action
flick. And he delivers the goods. The movie is dripping with cool, and
while it may not be a classic, it's a fun flick to throw on and let it
suck you in.

******
29 March 2015
9
I remember watching this movie whilst I was very young. My mum cried,
basically as soon as the title popped up until the credits. Sometimes you forget things and then there are times when you remember
something very vividly. I recall this movie making me feel very sad but
it was a deep sadness not easily fixed with a "it's just a movie"
comfort. Freedom is one of the very few things we really have and I simply
cannot imagine being locked up, no matter for how long, and for
something incredibly unfair. When Andy escapes and at last breathes in deep, I breathed with him and
I felt looking at freedom as ours. Even though I really enjoyed this movie I have been unable to watch it
again for fear of feeling too much again, it was that good.

******
29 March 2015
10
Simply one of the best films ever made , a film with a deep , touching
inspiring message within , this film will guarantee you motivation and
inspiration and even a spiritual awakening. There is not really much to say apart from you will be blown away by
this movie , the characters are marvelous and brilliant. Storyline
fantastic , this is pretty much a flawless film which will leave you
wanting to watch it over and over again.In a short conclusion this is one of the greatest movies ever made ,
this is a short review because this is all it needs , if you have not
yet seen this movie you are missing it out. Amazing film all round !!

******
28 March 2015
8
simple approach to art can be a virtue when chaos reigns in the world.
Just like the neo-folk music that serves as its soundtrack while
providing an emotional salve for its characters, "Song One" initially
serves as a lilting if sometimes downbeat respite from the cacophony
that often passes as cinema today.But even a stripped-down emo-ode to the healing power of music needs to
build up to a satisfying crescendo. In her feature debut,
writer/director Kate Barker-Froyland tends to tiptoe away from the
dramatic high notes that audiences often crave and comes up a stanza or
two short from a fulfilling resolution.Often, "Song One" feels like the timid B-side of last summer's more
satisfying music-biz saga, the much less woe-is-me and a lot more
let's-have-some-fun "Begin Again." Unlike many low-budget indie titles,
however, the novice filmmaker does have the benefit of a couple of
actual stars in her cast. They go far to help carry this story about
how a young woman reconnects with her family in New York after a car
accident leaves her estranged brother ("Boardwalk Empire's" Ben
Rosenfield), a Brooklyn-based busker, in a coma.As Franny, a rather sullen globe-trotting anthropologist working on her
doctorate, Anne Hathawaylooking like the early Liza Minnelli with her
gamine hairdoisn't quite as distraught as she was while winning her
2012 supporting Oscar as miserable prostitute Fantine in "Les
Miserables" or as a weepy astronaut in last year's "Interstellar."
Still, her big-screen crying jag continues apace as she and her mother
(Mary Steenburgen, who does what she can as a self-absorbed
intellectual whose props include American Spirit cigarettes and a twee
accordion) take turns sitting vigil in the hospital while hoping for a
miracle. Remember when Hathaway charmed us as a quick-witted gangly
Everygirl in "The Princess Diaries" and "The Devil Wears Prada" that
could make us laugh? Where has she gone? Back to the plot. Lacking a
sanctuary while back homeher mother has symbolically given her bed
away to her mail personFranny stays in Henry's room and, like the
anthropologist she is, steeps herself in what he has been up to while
pursuing his music dreams. Besides recordings, there is a journal
stuffed with scribblings: lyrics, deep thoughts, photosand, lo and
behold, a ticket to an upcoming concert by his favorite balladeer,
James Forester.If you get an inkling that Franny and hipster-poet James will get
involved romantically after she tells him about Henry's situation and
his admiration for him, that would be a bingo. Johnny Flynn, the
English actor-musician who plays James, duly possesses the soulful eyes
and shy presence of a folk artist. And he certainly sings and performs
well enough, both on guitar and violin. It is not hard to believe that
countless giggly girls in their summer frocks would line up after the
show to see him.He is also kind enough to stop by to see Henry the next day. Alas, his
character is soon revealed to have all the personality of a very
sincere though slightly damp sponge. It also is a little too convenient
that he has been dumped by his girlfriend, which has blocked his talent
for composing new material. Guess who will be his next muse? Bingo
again.What time Franny doesn't spend with James in clubs is devoted to
appealing to Henry's senses with familiar sounds and smells in the
hopes it will stir him. She records street noises for him to hear. She
buys takeout pancakes from his favorite all-night diner and pours syrup
on them in front of his nose. Franny even shells out money for an
antique gramophone to replace one that Henry broke and spins some
scratchy records on it in his hospital room. Will her efforts pay off?
Will we be able to tolerate her and James' somewhat ill-advised
relationship long enough to find out? One wonders what Hathaway saw in
this only partially-baked story. It turns out Barker-Froyland was an
assistant to "Prada" director David Frankel, and it is nice to know
that the actress is supporting her climb up the Hollywood ladder.But for those hoping that Ms. "Les Miz" will sing again for her supper,
given the subject matter of "Song One," you will have to settle for
Hathaway's intentionally amateurish crooning of America's soporific
'70s chestnut "I Need You." At least she knew better than to revive "A
Horse With No Name."

******
27 March 2015
10
Without doubt, this is my favorite film of all time.Every time I watch this film I feel like its the first time. Its just
fantastic.The heart of the film is the performances; Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman are both terrific in their roles and the chemistry
between them is so genuine it wouldn't surprise me if they were friends
before making the film. It also has the best use of Morgan Freeman's
narration voice, I almost felt like someone was in there telling the
story to me. Bob Gunton was great as well as the rest of the supporting
cast.Overall, I'm just in love with the story, I love films that involve
someone being faced with a bad situation and are able to turn their
life around. In my opinion, this is the best use of that method of film
making.Shawshank Redemption is a great film, my favorite in fact and I would
recommend it to anyone.

******
26 March 2015
10
The first time I watched this movie was around 10 years ago and since
then I forgot its name. two years ago it crossed my mind but I wasn't
able to remember the name and i tried every possible way to remember
it. finally I got it and I can't describe my feelings at that moment.
Since then I watched it for more than 10 times, and I will watch it
again. Can any movie beat it?absolutely no What can make sucha movie
incredible? everything I rarely cry for a realistic events or for a
fiction ones but I cry every time I watch this movie. Is is better than
the godfather? out of question Is it gonna be forgotten? No way The
movie didn't win any Oscar! who cares

******
25 March 2015
10
With little bit of suspense,it's make me insane. It's one of the best
movie i have ever seen. I was very enjoying the movie. escape plan of
Andy Dufresne is amazing but most amazing thing was the identity of
Andy Dufresne simply clever. Morgan Freeman is always enjoyed to watch.
Tim Robbins is give dedication to this role is exceptionally well. Tim
Robbins feels that role and feel like it's alive. Other guy like Bob
Gunton,William Sadler supports very well in this film.Segment in which
reveal that how Andy Dufresne was escaped with help of small tool.It's
interesting movie to watch with one seat.Never wanted to go away and
missed any shot.So i can describe it as clever,Incredible,Excellent.

******
25 March 2015
10
Very good movie. I can't say anything bad about it. It was touching,
exiting and grand!I saw this movie for the first time when I was very young, even though
I didn't understand everything but I still loved it. I find so many
levels of entertaining in this movie, I have seen it many times, and
every time I see something new!The prison brake part is very clever, and so exiting! The idea is great
and it is one of my favorite movies.I would recommend it to anyone, young or old, man or woman10/10 if I could give it more, I would!

******
24 March 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is seriously one of the best movies if not one
of the greatest movies of all time ever made. I have a huge love for
this movie and it stars of it. It has incredible writing, acting, set
pieces and some of the best storytelling ever. Morgan Freeman is such a
great actor in this. I highly recommend this film to anyone and
everyone who has a huge love for films like these. I own this movie in
my huge DVD/Bluray collection. I have so many great movies like this in
my collection but this one movie really is the best one in my
collection. May this movie live forever! 10 out of 10! To the future of
film!

******
22 March 2015
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a very moving picture. Top class
performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman even lift the movie
higher. Supporting performances by Bob Gunton, Clancy Brown,James
Whitmore are also commendable. The screenplay is top notch, it hooks
you up to your seat till the last moment. Background score of the movie
is exhilarating at many parts and deserves a special mention. The
locations are also good, giving the viewer a realistic feeling. In the
end it conveys an important moral of life- patience and tolerance
always pays. I wonder why this movie was a commercial disappointment.
It is and still remains one of my favorite movies. Enjoy watching the
movie!

******
22 March 2015
9
I highly recommend this. You should watch it. It is a good movie. Watch
it now. Watch this. Watch it. Do it. Now Go.What are you waiting for?This is a movie about a man who goes to prison. He meets people. They
talk. They talk a lot. People die. People get free. He does not get
free. People talk more. More people die. Morgan Freeman stars as a man
named "Red" in this flick. Watch it. Bob Gutton stars as the Warden. He
is a meany.Do yourself a favor and go watch it now. Get busy living, or get busy
dying.

******
22 March 2015
8
A good film. But I find it is over marked for the standard of film.
Morgan Freeman's acting cannot be flawed but Tim Robinson, as good as
he was, never seemed to show enough energy or desperation to portey the
role. The direction of the film is insane. The camera work seems to let
it down though, where there is a lot of wide screen moments, which
could have been close ups. This would have emphasised the acting. In my
opinion the role Tim Robinson played could have used a better actor,
however I do think he is a very talented actor. Perhaps a better actor
could have been Brad Pitt. His acting in Se7en shows that he can play
an angry, loving and deperate character and I think he would have done
the role more justice. Overall the film was very good but not as good
enough to be the best film ever.

******
22 March 2015
10
As a child I grew up believing that I had seen the greatest movie of
all time. It didn't matter what was said to me I felt that I was always
in the right. Until I was introduced to the Shawshank Redemption.To join the 1000s of other reviews on this movie and to stand out would
take some special. However this is not my goal. This movie for me
created a sense of realism which at points had me thinking that the
story and way in which it develops, that I could relate to every single Now to talk about my summary, the reason I believe that I was naive was
not to do with my age, it was simply down to the fact that I had not
been introduced to this movie earlier. Yes the content itself may be
deemed to not be appropriate for younger audiences, however I would
dispute this. Until you have seen this movie, I don't feel like a
comparison can be made.My recommendation, if you haven't seen this, watch it!

******
21 March 2015
10
According to me.As i have seen this movie for over 11 times .I don't
believe it is a one time watcher .It is too good .Especially the
casting the story is told in such a way that even I ( a moderate movie
lover) understands the concept and loves to say a word or two. Even
though Andy Dufresne is the lead .The character that stays in our minds
is obviously Morgan Freemans' RED .He has shown some thing that is not
so ordinary.And the Warden,,,Man i hate him so much that i love him....
That's it it ends here and it starts here.as told it is an escape,not
from prison but from ordinary to extra ordinary .And i simply love it
.And i love the way it is told

******
19 March 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is hands down the best movie of all time. I
will type that again, Shawshank Redemption is the best movie.....EVER.
Everything about this movie is amazing. This is Tim Robbins best work,
Morgan Freeman is perfect as Red in every frame of the film and
everybody else is great in their roles. Every time I see this film I
love it just a little bit more and it still stands as one of the best
examples of hope ever to be put on film. It also has one of the lines
in film history, which I have quoted often in my life, "Get busy
living, or get busy dying." So overall, a total Masterpiece. 5 Beards
Out Of 5 Check out my video review @
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W5PyYKla1G8

******
16 March 2015
10
The best movie of all time! Great acting, great story, great emotions
and breathtaking moments. When you see the way that Tim Robbins and
Morgan freeman acting, you suddenly feel and think that there is no
better actors for this roles and this film. The escaping scene of Tim
Robbins.. There are not many words to describe this moments. The
happiness and the relaxation that he feels is indescribable. But
showing us the way he feels this feelings is more than indescribable,
it is amazing! The story of each character is fitting the best way that
it could. We must all be thankful for watching this movie and thankful
for each person that contributed this movie.

******
15 March 2015
10
Having watched The Shawshank Redemption for like a thousand times, I
just can't stop watching it again every year or so.Not just the jail
breaking is fantastic, but the whole plot is well designed.Andie paid
20 years in prison, rescuing both his physical freedom and his free
mind.I would say that anybody who has watched it will surely find it
enlightening and inspiring, pushing us forward, letting us know that
without a brave heart and unchained soul, we would always be imprisoned
deeply inside us. Speaking of the film, Morgan Freeman is the one that
close all the clues of the story, a narrator who told the audience how
this amazing redemption story happened.Can't say more about his
performance, always natural , giving us a sense of reassurance.And
other actors did a quite good job, too.Very detailed and precise. So if
you are someone who had never watch this movie, I suggest you do it
A.S.A.P , before you get called a whonevergotocinema douche.

******
14 March 2015
10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
13 March 2015
10
It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but
"The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because
it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us vicarious
experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and
looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in
the story of men who have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper
than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship
and hope. Interesting that although the hero of the film is the
convicted former banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is
never seen from his point of view. The film's opening scene shows him
being given two life sentences for the murder of his wife and her
lover, and then we move, permanently, to a point of view representing
the prison population and particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding
(Morgan Freeman). It is his voice remembering the first time he saw
Andy ("looked like a stiff breeze would blow him over"), and
predicting, wrongly, that he wouldn't make it in prison.

******
9 March 2015
8
So the story is about Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), a man who has been
falsely sentenced to prison. In prison, he meets Ellis Boyd "Red"
(Morgan Freeman), to help him understand many things about life within
the four walls. The newcomer seems different than most of the rest
though, and, especially in the beginning, attempts to give his co-
prisoners moments to live for, moments forgotten for most of them
through simple and imaginative ways. As time goes by, he comes to terms
with what has happened and (no matter how he tries to help and evolve),
he understands what he is supposed to do for the rest of his life. But
there is one thing he won't let go: Hope.I will agree with those who have an issue with the fact that this movie
is considered to be "the best of all time". I think it's really not
THAT good. Although I understand it may has a reason and it's on
purpose, the pace is slow (could be characterized "too slow") and the
music (pretty important for this class of a movie) is "eh.." And last
complaint: Gil Belows as "Tommy" was so annoying...Having said that, there is no one who can deny that it's a beautiful
story and greatly told. It's pretty simple really. And it's that
simplicity of the story that makes it great... The film takes place in
a prison and while most of the people who are going to see it have
never been in prison (obviously), Frank Darabont makes you connect with
every single character in the film. And he does it so elegantly, you
won't even understand it happened. It says more about hope and life
with lost purpose than any other film I have recently seen. And when I
say "recently", I mean films that have been out there the last 20
years. The performances in the movie are extraordinary. Morgan Freeman is
great and I guess, even if most people don't really like him, Tim
Robbins plays a role he fits exactly into. Bob Gunton is the perfect
Warden to portray the necessary villain. I didn't really like William
Sadler as Haywood but hey... that's the point, "not to like him",
right? What I really liked most is the way this movie found time to cover all
those issues without losing it's focus. It's great how you are not
distracted at all when several things take place, while they are not
contributing to the full-story. And yet... you care. Because it's
something more than just a case or a chase... It's about life. And you
can never get bored in this movie if you're watching to learn
something. That's why the people who choose this movie to be moved and capture
something emotionally greater and more ambitious than huge gunfights
and cop-stories, will be fully pleased. People who choose this
expecting for the bomb to blow up and some guys yelling "Get Down!" and
swearing... sorry, this is not for you.

******
8 March 2015
10
Love the Title Love the movie. So much detail on jail. How Andy got
violated, how people are treated in jail. I assume sometimes during
movie that if I get to jail how it would turnout to me! And believe me
I was terrified to think me as a prisoner.An interesting turnover at the last part of the movie where Andy break
out with a tiny hammer. Another turnover about when RED becomes free. I
think Most of the viewers expected a tragic end but it's a happy ending
and that what everyone wanted. Hope is the best thing in the world. And it is hope which leads Andy to
break out and doesn't lead RED to commit suicide. But for Brooks there
was no hope for him so he did commit death himself.

******
7 March 2015
10
Great Actors, great Direction and a fascinating story from beginning
till the End. After all these years it's still one of the best Movies
ever. Morgan Freeman shows once again, that he is a great actor. Tim
Robbins becomes better and better till the great ending of the Movie.
It shows, that Stephen King is not just a master of horror. He is also
a master of storytelling. Thomas Newman was a great choice for the
soundtrack. The movie is so good, that even the parody versions of it
are great. For example in Drawn Together and the Simpsons. It's a
timeless classic. Every movie fan should have watched it. So sit back
and enjoy.

******
7 March 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and
directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who is
sentenced to life in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife
and her lover despite his claims of innocence. During his time at the
prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, and
finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him
in his money laundering operation.Despite being a box office
disappointment, the film received multiple award nominations and
outstanding reviews from critics for its acting, story, and realism. It
has since been successful on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.

******
7 March 2015
9
Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a man who has never struck a
false note in his career, both narrates this tale and anchors it with
his authoritative playing.Before we can critically assess The Shawshank
Redemption, we first have to deal with The Shawshank Reputation. In
addition to its Oscar nominations and huge critical acclaim, the film
has topped the IMDb Top 250 for years and shows no signs of dropping
off any time soon. Any attempt to criticise it could come across as
churlish or contrarian, the work of someone Strong acting. Moderately
inventive story, but not exactly unpredictable. A pleasantly uplifting
film, but don't expect a transformative experience. PS -- Love the
"Sisters" -- wish they won!

******
7 March 2015
10
About Movie: The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film
written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman. Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a
banker who is sentenced to life in Shawshank State Prison for the
murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence.
During his time at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd
"Red" Redding, and finds himself protected by the guards after the
warden begins using him in his money laundering operation. My
perspective: It is one of the favorite movie i ever seen...very
inspirational, motivational and great movie. The movie depicted all
kind of emotions from the characters in the life like humor, joy,
surprise, excitement, vengeance, jealous, untruthful, being alone,
disappointment, self motivation, Corruption, wired feeling. This movie
taught me that one has not give up his or her wish at any
circumstances..From this movie i understand one should not wish for
immediate result it may disappoint them, but if he or she should focus
on the progress towards the goal. It only give real success. after
watching this movie, i ask myself what is your purpose of the life
because hero will redemptive entire jail even he is in the prison.

******
7 March 2015
8
No spoilers here but I vaguely allude to certain events/themes.Currently Shawshank is IMDb's highest-rated film. I can understand the
argument for this as it's hard to fathom anyone not liking it, meaning
there won't be many 1-star reviews bringing the average down. Perhaps
the lack of female characters might jar with some, or the use of
familiar tropes like prison rape, nasty warden, brutal officers, the
protagonist being wrongly imprisoned and Morgan Freeman being his best
friend.Shawshank is 20 years old now so maybe deserves some leeway in using
these tropes, especially when considering how effectively they're used.
You really feel with Andy, and can't help but like Red. The acting from
the entire cast is excellent, and there are individual moments of
classic drama that stay with you for a long time (Brooks...) and also
beautiful pathos (the round of cold beers).If you haven't seen it yet but plan to, then I wouldn't expect the
Greatest Movie Ever, but go in with no expectations and you'll really
enjoy it.

******
6 March 2015
10
I would never have thought that prison life would have been like this
but in all honesty, i can relate now, having had to go into US Federal
prison myself much later on in life after having watched this film.
This film is just incredible in how it captured the spirit of ordinary
people caught up in the prison system which is still in place to this
day. We refer to it as the meat grinder. The film captures how people,
through their own misfortunes and circumstances have found themselves
in prison, even though they might not be a 'criminal' in essence. the
emotion of the film is just awesome and this is why it will always be
referred to when anyone is talking about prison or prison films. the
ultimate classic film.

******
1 March 2015
10
This movie without a doubt deserves to be number one on the Top 250
list. I could re-watch this movie over and over and over again and still feel
the intense feels that cause such emotions. This movie was well filmed and directed. Each scene has unique camera
work that help with what the movie is trying to portray. Well that is enough of me telling you how great this movie is. We all
know it is one of the best so I will not repeat it. For those who have not watch this movie yet, you should drop what your
doing and go watch it right now. :D ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
''''''

******
27 February 2015
10
I personally love a movie that is able to satisfy my wildly growing
curiosity. This movie answered every question that I had, which is not
always for the best because of coarse every movie maker wants to leave
us wanting more when the movie was over. But there was something about
"The Shawshank Redemption" that was different. The film gave a movie
lover exactly what they needed, well at least for me personally. The
things in a movie that make people reconsider their own personal lives
tend to be the best parts. To my surprise I did not cry while watching
this film, because even with the murder, suicide, theft, rape, torture
and pain in this movie. I still can say, in a strange way it was a
happy story that changed my output on life for the better.

******
27 February 2015
10
The good news is that The Godfather Part II has many amazing qualities,
including fantastic performances from a superb cast, sublime,
unprecedented visuals that no one else has been able to capture since,
and very engaging stories. The bad news is that this should have easily
been a 10, but overall, it is so sprawling and unfocused that I can't
possibly give it more than a 9, which it only earns because the assets
transcend what's basically a mess overall. Because it should have been
a 10, and most other reviews will tell you about the positive points at
length, I may pick on more things in my review than you would think I
would for a 9, but rest assured that even with the flaws, The Godfather
Part II is still essential viewing.Director/co-writer Francis Ford Coppola cleverly begins the film with
parallels to The Godfather. We see Michael Corleone (Al Pacino) "in the
role" of his father, Vito (Marlon Brando), from the first film,
accepting prostrating guests while a party is going on outside. Like
the first film, the party consumes a lot of time while we get to know
some of the principal characters. Perhaps during this segment, perhaps
a bit after, we realize that maybe the beginning wasn't so clever after
all, because the structure of The Godfather Part II parallels The
Godfather from a broad perspective, as if Coppola and co-writer Mario
Puzo used the first film as something of a template to create this one.After the party is over, there is an attempted hit on Michael, and we
quickly learn that not everything is rosy in the Corleone's mafia
world. Michael believes that someone on the "inside" was involved with
the hit. This launches a complicated sequence of events that has
Michael, who is now living in Nevada, traveling to Miami, Cuba, New
York, and so on. He accuses different people of involvement in the
attempted hit depending on whom he is talking to. This may have all
been part of a grand scheme to set up the responsible parties, but one
of the flaws of the film is that Coppola doesn't convey Michael's
underlying thoughts about this very well, not even later, and not
through his actions. Rather than feeling like a clever set- up, it
starts to feel like slightly muddled writing.During the middle section of the film, which goes on for hours, we also
have a hint of a problem that plagued The Godfather--a bloated cast.
There are bit too many characters who aren't well enough presented or
explained. You may need to keep a scorecard.Coppola and Puzo also treat us to many extended "flashback" segments,
and I mean way back, to Vito as a boy and young man, played by Robert
De Niro. For my money, these were the best scenes of the film, although
maybe that's a bit of my bias creeping in, as I'm a huge De Niro fan.But let's talk about the main plague of the film--sprawl. This is maybe
first evident in the flashbacks. As good as they are, they go on far
too long, and happen far too frequently, to sustain the momentum of
either the Michael story or the Vito-as-a-youngster story. It begins to
feel like we're toggling back and forth between two films, which is the
track that should have been taken. The prequel, at least, would have
been a solid 10.There's also a lot of sprawl in the Michael Corleone segments. Coppola
appears to have been suffering from what I'd now call "J.K. Rowling
Syndrome". That happens when an artist becomes successful enough that
they can fire or ignore their editor(s). Instead of taking good advice
about where to trim fat, the artist decides to just leave much of it
in, and they now have the clout to override any dissenting and more
sensible opinions. The Michael Corleone story has a lot of fat,
including much of the Cuba material (for example, sitting around the
table with the President, laboriously passing around a solid gold
telephone), the Senate hearings (which go on far too long to make and
provide the dramatic points), and so on.The film begins to feel more like a couple seasons of a television show
that Coppola tried to cram into a 3 and a half hour film, or worse, a
collection of deleted scenes. The scenes, except for the fat that
needed to be trimmed, are excellent in isolation. But by the time the
climax rolls around, the whole has more of an arbitrary feeling--this
is especially clear in the dénouement, which seems to just end.I've barely left myself room to talk about the good points. The first
one, which most people mention, is the acting. There isn't a bad
performance in the film, but Pacino, De Niro, and some relatively minor
characters, like those played by Diane Keaton, Talia Shire and John
Cazale, really stand out.The second outstanding point, similar to the first film, is the
beautiful visuals. Although all of the cinematography and production
design is great, what really impressed me were some of the darkly lit
scenes. Characters and features of sets emerge from pitch-blackness,
and everything is rich, deep shades of burgundy, brown, and orange.
Amazingly, nothing gets lost in these scenes. It must be incredibly
difficult to achieve without making the shots too dark, because I can't
remember another film since that has been able to capture the same
look. The flashback scenes are also in similar, but lighter, colors,
creating an appropriate sepia-tone feel.Although the broad perspective problems are unfortunate, a closer focus
on most segments of the film provides exemplary artistry. Given that,
and the film's importance culturally, The Godfather Part II is a
must-see.

******
27 February 2015
10
I don't really write movie reviews and I won't go into too much depth
here. My forte is writing sports blogs and articles but I felt obliged
to say a little something on this amazing film.Short and sweet, this film is captivating, brilliantly written,
produced and acted by an all-star cast. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman
are a dynamic duo that draw you in and hold you down. Escape from this
movie is impossible and you find yourself more enamored with each
scene.As a new actor and someone who thoroughly enjoys movies, writing and
artistry of many formats, I hope to one day be half as good as the
actors in Shawshank. If you haven't seen this movie, do yourself a huge
favor and sit down, grab a cold drink and some salty snacks and enjoy!

******
26 February 2015
9
One of my favourite films all time. Shawshank Redemption is a story
about mans hope and how friendship can overcome all. The cast give a
great performance throughout the picture. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
26 February 2015
10
One of the greatest and true pieces of cinematic masterpiece. Shawshank
will forever be in at least the top 25 movies to watch of all times. I
can watch it over and over again and never tire from it.The Movie allows you to ponder the troubles in your own life, that no
matter what problems, no matter what is bringing you down; as long as
your mind stays strong then the skies the limit. Shawshank is not only a prison movie, but a movie about humanity and
acceptance. Tim Robbins character is so smooth with out a care in the
world, its if like prison life doesn't even phase him, but it just
showed that no matter how he felt and how hard of a time this character
suffered, he was in time befriended and accepted for who he is and how
strong willed he proved to be.

******
23 February 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people like... Cool...
I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people like...
Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people
like... Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of
people like... Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a
lot of people like... Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film
that a lot of people like... Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is
a film that a lot of people like... Cool... I like the Shawshank
Redemption is a film that a lot of people like... Cool... I like the
Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people like... Cool... I
like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people like...
Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people
like... Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of
people like... Cool... Yeah...

******
21 February 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption wasn't a commercial success, largely due to
its strange name, but now many people consider it one of the best
movies of all time thanks to an incredible mix of drama, prison, and
touches of action and mystery to liven things up. This is a story about justice and the law, and it's also incredibly
poignant. I cried the first time I saw it. It takes place over about 20
years, which is somewhat incredible, and we get to be firsthand
witnesses to Andy's time in jail over such a long period of time. This
is especially great when you add in all of the supporting characters
the movie has to offer, like Red, Brooks, and the Warden. I was actually sad when I first saw this movie, because when it
finished I realized that I'd just seen the greatest movie ever and I
would never be able to see it for the first time again. 10/10.
Incredible, incredible movie.

******
21 February 2015
8
This will be a short review because, after all, I have not a lot of
things to say about this movie. N°1 movie on IMDb, Amercian Film
Institute 72nd best film of all time, 91% on rottentomatoes, I had to
see this "masterpiece". Well, this is in no case worthy of the name,
it's an excellent movie, but not to the point of deserving such a
worship. The story is very beautiful and the characters are very
touching but, from a purely cinematographic point of view, there's
nothing amazing about it. Any movie from Kubrick, for instance, deserve
way more the first place on IMDb than The Shawshank Redemption because
it really marked film history (I'm talking about Kubrick because it's
the first name that popped into my head, but it's not the only one
obviously). I still recommend this very beautiful movie, of course, but
if I had to do a list of the best films of all time according to me, it
would never be in it.

******
19 February 2015
10
Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt the most uplifting and touching
film I have ever seen. The acting was brilliant, you believed what
everyone said (some films the words are delivered with such cheesiness
and fake ness, that it makes you want to throw up). I have watched
Spiderman, and even the lines in that make you feel that they mean
nothing, they just sound good. But every aspect of Shawshank fit
together. The acting from the top to the bit part. The musical score.
The editing. The photography. The story, from opening credits to final
scene. All involved, including the town of Mansfield, Ohio (where
Shawshank was actually filmed) played their roles perfectly. Shawshank
is a must- see, must- own title.

******
19 February 2015
10
A man who was in the midst of Deception; deciding to follow it in, and
with using another sin. He began to sober up, but he was too late, he
turned and caught the justice of the two lovers fate. He found himself
locked with in. Finding foes and friend, that sums it up for
corruption. He was placed in the Dark, seeing glimpses of the light.
Only to feel the need to escape his plight. He kept real cool, as far
as everyone knew, but underneath his skin, a hole began to cave in.
When all was said and done, his salvation laid just behind another
women. Out of the tunnel in his mind, and through the muck, he was
baptized. This was the man we called Andy, who ended his journey
keeping the chess board ready. Seeing his new found friend, walking
toward him in the sand. As he had just escaped, using the words "I
don't give a Damn".

******
18 February 2015
9
Before watching any movie, I do read reviews here and this is correct
one as far as stars go. It is really engaging in a sense that although
it is long, does not bore you. It is emotional and you are bound to
shed a few tears. I don't know many movies with two main actors, but
their roles here are very truthful to what may be real persons
experiences. I loved the movie also because it does give you hope that
injustices done by others to you will be - one day or eventually -
'paid' in a way or that something good is waiting for you after the
hard times. Anyway, a story you can not simply not love. I may see it
20 years later, but it is universal movie. Go and see it

******
17 February 2015
3
This movie offers less in terms of plot twists, character development
and acting than what I think people realise. Morgan Freeman delivers a
characteristically mundane performance and the other characters dance
forgettably around him.There are few to no memorable quotes and even less action, and the only
real twist, at the end, could be the most overrated twist of all time.I only watched this after it was deemed a must by most of my close
peers and fellow movie critics, only to be gravely disappointed with
their judgments. If this movie has taught me anything, it is that IMDb
ratings mean jack and that people are, in general, conformist in nature
; they rate movies highly if their fellow humans talk it up. Who could
forget the terrible acting and the sexual innuendos in this movie? The
only reason that the director put that in there was to make it feel
more prison like, but for me it felt as if he was trying to plug a
bathtub with a million holes. A tub full of vomit to begin with.Frankly, I do not care if this is an unpopular view. And neither should
you. Popularity is a reflection of the current state of society's
desires, nothing more.

******
16 February 2015
8
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont.

******
14 February 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people like... Cool...
I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people like...
Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people
like... Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of
people like... Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a
lot of people like... Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film
that a lot of people like... Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is
a film that a lot of people like... Cool... I like the Shawshank
Redemption is a film that a lot of people like... Cool... I like the
Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people like... Cool... I
like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people like...
Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of people
like... Cool... I like the Shawshank Redemption is a film that a lot of
people like... Cool... Yeah...

******
12 February 2015
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins, is
convicted of a double murder, even though he vehemently proclaims his
innocence. He is sentenced to life imprisonment at the Shawshank State
Prison in Maine, where another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding, played by
Morgan Freeman, elects him amongst fellow prisoners as the new recruit
most likely to crack under the pressure.This is still one of the most engrossing movies of all time. A truly
classic movie with drama and suspense and best of all, one of the
greatest twists in its day.Morgan Freemans performance was inspiring to say the least and simply
reinforced his ability to capture his audience.Tim Robbins seemingly innocent role in this movie certainly provided
for an inspirational ending

******
9 February 2015
9
The 'Shawshank Redemption' undoubtedly deserves to be the highest rated
movie. The movie depicts how a four lettered word 'Hope' brings wonders
to our lives and makes something impossible to possible.Though the plot of the movie focuses on how Andy Dufrane, a falsely
convicted prisoner gets out of the prison, the beauty of the movie lies
in the characterization of Andy Dufrane (just amazing) and how he
influences his fellow prisoner 'Red'. The narration by Morgan Freeman
in the role of 'Red' is perhaps one of the best narrations i have ever
come across. This story proves that the king of horrors, Stephen King,
is equally good at any other genre of 'Story Writing'(Hats off). The
dialogues towards the end of the movie about hope are truly inspiring.
The background score of the movie is excellent. Tom Robbins and Morgan
Freeman at their best in the roles of Andy Dufrane and Red
respectively.Didn't watch the movie??...go grab a DVD and watch it as soon as
possible. Can't miss a movie like this....

******
8 February 2015
10
Yet another time i watched, so did I in the past few years. Adding life
to years and not years to you life is nicely put in the movie. I have
rated the highest because of the story line that outlines all other
movies of this kind of movie genre. The roles define a human's emotions in the movie. The cast are a super
gifted actors who have a knack for contributing their best to the
movie. Script is just so marvelous. The purpose and the motive of an
individual is superbly put in the movie. The hope that keeps you alive
is nicely mentioned. The conversation are good to get you inspired and
keep moving in life. Talks to the heart straight. I would recommend all
movie lovers to watch this movie.

******
8 February 2015
10
This movie is, in my opinion, the best movie of all time. I like it
because the acting talent is exceptional, the screenplay is top notch
and you really feel for it all. The visual effects are standard, but
that is just fine. It doesn't make a difference either way. The plot is
such that it makes you wonder whether or not he should be in the
prison, as his attitude to everything seems unlike a murdering
criminal. Tim Robbins proves his innocence well in the role, as well as
his intelligence, spirit and also the fact that he can hide a hole in
the wall for nearly 20 years. Red, played by Morgan Freeman, gives
excellent narration and acts well, and is the start of the 'Morgan
Freeman plays Morgan Freeman' trend. The rest of the acting cast is so
believable you could've thought that it was made in the 1950s. What's
more, you will be incredibly satisfied with the ending, as it is
possibly the best-crafted ending in movie history.

******
8 February 2015
10
Of a lifetime worth forty years- I never saw a movie that impressed me
like this. You may not call it a perfect story but this movie just
moves your soul...no wonder..it is the highly rated movie in IMDb. Two
reasons why I loved this movie. Firstly the silence of Tim Robbins and
the euphoria around Morgan Freeman. The scene on the terrace where Tim
Robbins proves his mettle is a reminder of our latent abilities. This
movie also reminds of survival instincts in real life wherein we should
not lose hope when it comes to making choices. Two other movies that I
loved in this perspective were "Cast Away" and "Catch me if you can"!!!
Not sure if they were all based on real life incidents but if you ever
happen to live a life,make a movie,write a book... Do it this way!!!
Amen!!!!

******
5 February 2015
10
I just want to say 1 thing about the amazing movie: after the movie was
over; you must be nailed in place you sit! after i saw SH.R and it was
over; i didn't feel the time and suddenly i saw the credits list was
over and i was there with out moving for 5 min and just all thinking
about the movie...if i want to describe the movie in a few sentences : The real meaning
of freedom is in your heart; you can't find it in your side when your
soul is unfamiliar with the concept of freedom and can't realized that
actually the real fences are in your mind not in your side! if you want
to watch 10 movie in your life >>> Shawshank Redemption is certainly
one of them.

******
5 February 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one movie, that every person should watch
at least once during their lifetime. It's a classic drama/crime movie,
which starts in 1946 with Andy Dufresne, a banker being wrongly accused
and convicted of his wife's and wife's loves murder. He is sentenced to
life at the Shawshank Prison, He arrives at the Shawshank prison and
befriends a fellow prisoner Red who finds Andy's acts rather daring as
well as amusing during his time at the shawshank prison. Using just a
small Hope and Time as his tools Andy finds out a way to escape from
that hellhole, emerging as the most extra-ordinary prisoner of his
time.The story revolves around friendship, strength and hope. Andy gains
respect among the fellow prisoners and makes the passage for his escape
so cleverly which even the warden himself could not figure out till the
end, The climax of the story is what makes it a huge hit amongst the
masses. Only after watching such a master piece by Stephen King can one
actually find out why It tops the list of IMDb top 250.

******
5 February 2015
10
If you were asked to name one actor capable of playing ex-cons, hit
men, and God, you'd be hard pressed to do any better than Morgan
Freeman -- which is, probably not coincidentally, why he's played all
those characters (among many others) over the course of his
distinguished, nearly 50-year career. And even as he reaches the
half-century mark as a professional actor, Freeman shows no signs of
slowing down. When it premiered on September 23, 1994, "The Shawshank Redemption"
barely registered at the box office. The prison drama opened at No. 9,
below the odious sex comedy "Exit to Eden" and just above Robert
Redford's "Quiz Show," already in its fifth week. Though nominated for
seven Academy Awards, the film failed to connect with audiences and
vanished from theaters with little fanfare. And then, slowly but
surely, its fortunes began to change. On its 20th anniversary, here's
how "The Shawshank Redemption" beat the odds and became a beloved
classic.

******
4 February 2015
10
This is a motivational story about a group of people in prison. It
shows them going through many different conflicts. Most of the guards
treat them badly and often abuse the inmates. The ugly realities of
prison life are realized in the first half hour of the movie. There was
strong acting on all parts. It was expertly shot too. It deserves all
of the praise it has received. It's been near the top of IMDb's top 10
for years and it's showing no signs of slowing down. It's very moving
and it has a lot of character development. It perfectly represents all
the struggles that the characters go through. Also, the movie is highly
brutal. Especially near the beginning. This isn't for anyone who
doesn't like brutality but it's rather fitting in this movie. The way
it combined brutality with a highly memorable story makes it something
special. It touched me in a way that I cannot describe. Without any
doubt, it's the best drama ever and one of the greatest movies of all
time.

******
4 February 2015
10
Without exaggeration, I have seen this movie for more than 100 times in
past 6 years. What makes Shawshank the best movie of all time in Cinema is the
simplicity in which the story has been told. From beginning to end, not
only you see different beautiful characters in the movie living their
life in a prison, but you start to live it with them for the entire
duration. Every single emotion and characteristic of humans have been
touched, right from love, lust, anger, frustration, corruption, guilt,
friendship, redemption and most importantly the HOPE. This is one of the most motivating films of all time. I doubt there has
been any single viewer, who watched the movie and didn't feel happy at
the end. I prefer watching Shawshank every time I have had a bad phase
in life. The film will just fill your heart with warmth and make you
feel good about life in general about how there is always a light after
the end of the tunnel, no matter how long the tunnel is, but only if
you hope for it and don't give up.Have you seen the mime saying 'I want Morgan Freeman to narrate my
life'? Well this movie is the primary reason for that.Without doubt this deserves the #1 spot on top 250 list !!

******
1 February 2015
9
WHAT I LIKED1. The performances - All the actors gave great performances,
especially Tom Robbins as Andy Dufresne, Morgan Freeman as Red and Bob
Gunton as the warden.2. The theme - The films beautifully shows the hope and perseverance
that Andy had despite the struggles faced in jail.3. The climax - The way Andy put one over on the warden was superb.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKENothingVERDICTAn excellent film. A film that spreads the message of hope.9/10 - Excellent

******
31 January 2015
10
Truly a work of art.A great movie with a little bit of everything thrown in. Like The Green
Mile (Which is also another brilliant prison movie & King adaptation)
this has to be one of Stephen Kings best horror stories and pretty much
one of the best prison films ever created. What could be more
horrifying than being locked up for the rest of your life in a prison
like Shawshank knowing you're innocent?With great acting by a top notch cast, a brilliant score, superb
screenplay & direction by Frank Darabont and a simple message of hope,
what's not to like?I highly recommend this movie. And if you haven't read the book yet
then go out and buy it. It's pretty short but you'll be glad you did.

******
30 January 2015
10
For years I kept hearing about this little movie called the Shawshank
Redemption, I saw snippets satirized in shows like Family Guy. Finally
I decided to sit down and watch it on Netflix a few weeks ago and I
could not stop watching. I started watching the movie in the middle of
the night and finished it as dawn was upon me. Intriguing from the very
beginning, compelling to the end, truly a masterpiece of a movie. The
acting is excellent on all front and it was nice to see some old
familiar faces from the 90s that we don't get to see in films these
days. I see now why this movie is now called a classic. Definitely a
movie I would recommend.

******
30 January 2015
10
THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is a kind of morality tale that is definitely
one of Stephen King's more restrained kind of stories, dealing mostly
with a character study of two individuals sharing imprisonment and the
consequences that await them when the tale ends.TIM ROBBINS is a man wrongly convicted of murder and serving a long
prison term while MORGAN FREEMAN (who plays the narrator with great
dignity) describes himself as "the only guilty man in Shawshank." The
hardships of prison life are captured in brief scenes that make the
viewer wish that Robbins will find a way of escape. Along the way, he is gang raped by prisoners and treated harshly by a
brutal warden and some of his spirit seems to vanish. But Robbins is
quietly effective as a prisoner who makes a good adjustment when he
takes charge of the prison library and sees to it that there's a wider
selection of books than the kind of potboilers that King is noted for
writing. A touch of irony here, no? The closing scenes are a bit of a
stretch and a reminder of just who wrote this prison tale--but still,
they make an impact because of all that happens before.It's a bittersweet story, a sort of horrific fairy-tale of what might
have happened, but the viewer will be caught up in the story because of
the tremendously skillful story-telling magic of Stephen King and
director Frank Darabont who also wrote the screenplay.

******
30 January 2015
7
I don't know about best movie ever, but it was good. It had a good
plot. Proper acting and actors. An abstract theme. It had a certain
fascination. The writing was very good. Besides all those good things,
to me it simply wasn't a movie that I would go around bragging about. I
can see why people are head over heels about this movie, because it
simple is one of those movies that leaves a mark in the mind of movie
goers. To me it was one of those movies where it would leave you like
"wow, that was a pretty good and interesting movie", but then you
wouldn't watch it again for years. I first watched it almost a year ago
and I haven't seen it again since. In my mind a great movie is one you
can't get enough of, you just want to watch it over and over till you
can't anymore, and I simply didn't get that from this movie. So my
opinion is, it was good, but it wasn't great.

******
28 January 2015
9
Who would have thought that a prison film would become a cult classic?
Slow and steady it goes. Worth every slow moment, in my opinion. A film
about hope...and friendship. Something all of us can relate to. A
spiritual journey that transcends time and space. You just soak up
Tim's character...why is he so quiet? Did he kill them? Why Red? About
Red. I believe that this is Morgan's best role ever. Tim also nails it,
but Morgan stole the show. He portrays one who can get anything and
pretty much runs the inside, and he plays it well. In my Top 10 for
sure. One of the best movie quotes ever: "Get busy living' or get busy
dying'."

******
28 January 2015
10
I have never seen such an amazing film. the Shawshank encompasses
friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so great about
the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope. Even though the
circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite
different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are
going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Why this movie
didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, let its ranking on the IMDb's
top 250 list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie
sway you.

******
27 January 2015
10
I saw Shawshank Redemption after seeing it in top 10 list of all rating
sites. I must admit that it thoroughly deserved its top spot. Its a
movie which intrigues you with its characters & events. The characters
are build up interestingly.The movie just blows your mind when the
suspense is revealed.Till that time i bet no one could ever guess that
whats gonna happen next.The acting is superlative the dialogues are
amazing.Its laid back style of unfolding of events is refreshing .The
story is truly about hope triumphing in the grimmest of
circumstances.The Must watch classic which is only comparable to the
best of all times like Casablanca, Pulp Fiction, The Apartment.

******
27 January 2015
10
It is a wonderful movie. No spoilers, but the characters are the best i
have ever seen. Moving story, great written and acted, but There are a
few that stand out, as you will notice. Nothing less then perfect. The
movie is best when you come in with out a clue, so i am not going to
say more. All you need to know is that it is a must watch. So turn off
the lights crank the volume up and enjoy yourself. I can promise that
you won't regret it. What are you doing still reading this, just turn
it on and watch it. 10/10If you want a more indebted review read one of the other 3500+ reviews.
I'am sure they will back my claims.

******
26 January 2015
9
This movies is almost perfect. Like many movies I would say it could be
a tad shorter. Though that does add to truly feeling like Andy has been
in prison as long as he has been. The music, the photography, the
acting, the writing... it is all perfect. I don't know anyone who
doesn't not like this film. I think it gets better with time. I want to
buy this soundtrack I loved Thomas Newman's score so much. I think it
is my favourite piece of his. Even the supporting characters in this
film are fantastic. The guards, the other prisoners. All performances
are 100% gripping. I can't even tell you how many times I have seen
this film and try to enforce that anyone who hasn't start watching as
soon as they can.

******
25 January 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 epic American drama film written and
directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman.This is very good film. I like red in this movie he was a very
good supporting actor. this is my favourite movie. the best scene is
when he plays the music into the Mick. Another reason why this movie is
good in all the actors give an amazing performance. Spoilers he
escapes. An amazing film. The role for Andy Dufresne was first offered
to Tom Hanks and Kevin Costner, but they couldn't play the role because
of issues with the dates. Later, Kevin Costner strongly regretted his
decision on turning down the character of Andy Dufresne. Tom Cruise,
Johnny Depp, Charlie Sheen and Nicolas Cage were considered for the
part of Andy Dufresne, which finally went to Tim Robbins. For the role
for Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding, Clint Eastwood, Harrison Ford, Paul
Newman and Robert Redford were considered, because in Stephen King's
book, Red was an Irishman. It was meant to be played by a white actor
in the first place, but director Frank Darabont wanted to cast Morgan
Freeman as Red.Frank Darabont wanted his favorite character actor James Whitmore to
act in the film, so he asked him to do the role for Brooks. The role
for the character Tommy Williams played by Gil Bellows was first going
to Brad Pitt. Though this character had a small part, it was an
important role in the film.[8]I have seen is movie 17 times. The movie
cant be better. If you have not watched this movie then what are you
waiting for.I end with a quote "he dispersed like a fart in the wind."

******
25 January 2015
10
I love this movie very much.You can visit my blog to download full version games. Highly COmpressed
Games Fully PC Games Ultra Compressed Games PC Games Full Version PC
Games 1 click download link 24/7 network Request any game at:
Blackguards 2 Free Download PC Game Full Game Blackguards 2 Free
Download PC Game Full Game Description: Blackguards 2 a continuance of
turn-based approach with RPG elements. In this game you will come
across extremely topical aggressive crimes and a lot of blood-spattered
battles in the hexagonalhttp://www.18-games.com

******
24 January 2015
10
Very well directed, scripted and acted movie. You may want to watch it
more than once for getting to understand every scene of the movie. The
way is handle hard situations without showing violence or graphic
scenes is commendable.Stephen King shows how brilliant he can be besides horror movies, the
story helps answer all the critics having any doubts about Stephen King
as a writer. The characters shown are very realistic and emotions are not blown out
of proportions. A must watch for every movie freak, a movie which you
can show to both your friends and family without any hesitation

******
24 January 2015
10
I never wrote a review before, but I couldn't resist myself after
watching this movie.The Shawshank Redemption is a great movie. Morgan
Freeman did a really good job on acting.... i love it. After all this
years,I have been watched so many movies,but no one can compare with
this greatest movie in the world in my mind! If you haven't seen this
movie well you should watch it right now. It's worth it ! This movie is
excellent in every way you look at it.This is a movie to be watched
over and over. Each time I get a little bit more out of it. This is a
definite must see movie for anyone who wants something that will make
them think about what is important in life.

******
22 January 2015
10
Other than just the message of this movie the acting was phenomenal.
Tim Robbins gave one of the greatest performances ever. He was
inspiring, intelligent and most of all positive. His performance just
made me smile. Robbins plays Andy who was wrongfully convicted of
murdering his wife and her lover. He is gets to life sentences but yet
never gives up hope. In he becomes friends with Ellis Boyd "Red" played
by Morgan Freeman. Freeman who gives the finest performance of his
career has unlike Robbins lost hope. He is in deep regret of the crime
that he committed. His way of deflecting the pain away is by trying to
not feel anything at all. With his friendship with Andy he learns that
without our hopes and dreams we have nothing. Andy also becomes friends
with the rest of Red's group. James . also gave a great performance as
Brooks Halten who gets out of prison parole but in the words of Red he
has been "institutionalized".

******
22 January 2015
10
This film is simply the best story I have ever seen! Well, what to say,
it is based on the story by Stephen King and it speaks for itself... I
strongly recommend watching this film! :o) It already is a legend! When
I saw it for the first time, I felt like grounded to the earth and I
just couldn't stop watching it... And it was in the classroom, so
usually it is the place you want to escape as fast as possible. :oD
There are some moments that I just cant forget and also I am quite
sure, it will stay in you as well... I wonder, when some film will
break this one in quality and in the way it touches you. After the
Green Mile, it is like nearly impossible task... I guess. Conclusion:
If you love the story that will completely move with your feelings and
will press you to feel very sad about characters and what happens to
them... Well, this is the one you MUST watch.David

******
20 January 2015
9
a movie that gives you a different view of inmates in prison. it gives you a feel of satisfaction, and of true justice, and
friendship.i've watched this movie at least 8 times, and enjoyed it every time i
did.its a movie that makes you cry- only so you'll appreciate the moments
where it makes you smile.i don't want to ruin this wonderful movie for the rest of you guys, but
ill just say, its one of those movies, that you just love and remember
forever.

******
20 January 2015
10
This movie gives you hope to live and move forward regardless of how
tough your situation is. life is all about seeing that bright light
ahead whenever you are in deep darkness and move forward. Shawshank is
something which we all are in, a state of mind.every one of us can be
Andy if you believe in hope.Dufresne, all the while protesting his innocence, slowly overcomes the
hellfire tortures of the prison system - an unblinking range of
beatings, raping and abject humiliations - while managing to inspire
his fellow inmates to lift their degraded horizons. Among them is Red
(Freeman, in a matchless supporting role), the lifer who can, given
time, provide virtually anything. And for reasons best known to
himself, Dufresne requires 40s starlet Rita Hayworth, provisioned in
poster form.The mood swings rigorously through every emotion as the cranky, wise
guy and downright crazed array of criminals bare the brunt of the
turbulent life within the doom Shawshank catacomb. Then it gets really
mean, gearing up for its injury-time shockers. Dufresne, a whiz with
figures, is bullied into running the warden's (Gunton) petty accounting
scams, giving him the chance to execute his and the film's final,
greatest miracle.

******
16 January 2015
10
Tonight I celebrate my love for you It seems the natural thing to do
Tonight no one's gonna find us We'll leave the world behind us When I
make love to youTonight I celebrate my love for you And hope that deep inside you'll
feel it too Tonight, our spirits will be climbing To a sky filled up
with diamonds When I make love to you tonightTonight I celebrate my love for you And that midnight sun is gonna come
shining through Tonight there'll be no distance between us What I want
most to do is to get close to you tonightTonight I celebrate my love for you And soon this old world will seem
brand new Tonight we will both discover How friends turn into lovers
When I make love to youTonight I celebrate my love for you And the midnight sun is gonna come
shining through Tonight there'll be no distance between us What I want
most to do is to get close to youTonight I celebrate my love for you Tonight

******
16 January 2015
10
I would rate this as one of the best movies I've ever watched,
unfortunately, at home. Great story, great characters, lots of feelings
and emotions.I remember to feel anxious about the escape, to feel the pain and
happiness transmitted by each moment in the movie.Decades waiting for a release that would never come, and after so much
time having the guts to try a jail break and find some comfort outside,
in a world which wasn't exactly the same left behind.A must watch, without hesitation, even if only one time in your life. A
lesson to everyone's life, don't give up, even when there is not too
much hope in the horizon.

******
15 January 2015
10
This movie is a true masterpiece, and it's a real pity that it never
really got recognition and box office success it deserved. If Forrest
Gump, also a very good movie, hadn't come out the same year, I have no
doubt that Shawshank would have taken top honors at the Oscars.At the center of the story is Andy Dufrense, a bank executive wrongly
convicted of killing his wife and her lover. Our first impression of
him is that he's a bookworm, a nerd, the kind of man who won't last
long behind bars. But it becomes clear soon on that he is filled with a
great inner strength, one that allows him not only to endure his
ordeal, but to keep his sanity and his humanity.Andy soon befriends Red (Morgan Freeman), the prison's top scrounger.
Having spent the last twenty years on the inside the walls, Red serves
as the film's wise old man, giving Andy (and the viewer) the ground
rules, dispensing advice, and trading in contraband. He's sympathetic
and loyal to his friends, but being in prison has given him a cynical
streak that grows as the movie progresses. He also narrates the story,
and does a masterful job. There's neither a single line of unnecessary
narration, nor any scenes where more is needed.Andy's skill with numbers eventually gets him in good with the guards,
whose taxes he does. Before long, he enters the services of the warden.
And once the warden begins a program of using the convicts as cheap
labor- and pocketing the profits- Andy becomes one of the nation's best
crooked accountants. As for the warden himself, he's an interesting
character. He comes across a fairly benign, if somewhat self-righteous;
his piety and talk of redemption contrasting with the actions of those
under him. But as his schemes unfold, his villainous nature becomes
apparent.I don't know if there has ever been a more realistic, more sympathetic
portrayal of prison life and what it does to a man. In every scene,
this movie tells it like it really is. It doesn't shy away from the
brutal beatings at the hands of sadistic guards, or the horrors of
prison rape. But at the same time, it remains tasteful, never stooping
to the level of crass exploitation or violence for its own sake.Shawshank also gives the viewer a sense of the boredom and monotony
that makes up the bulk of a prisoner's life, without becoming boring or
monotonous itself. It also shows the feelings of camaraderie and close
friendships that can develop between inmates. I've heard that the only
bonds between soldiers in combat can compare to those between prison
buddies, and based on this film, I wouldn't doubt it. The little things
are perfectly captured as well: the cigarette trade, the obsession with
the female image- to the point that you'll watch the same movie a dozen
times just for that one scene with that one actress, and of course the
way that every man in prison insists that he's innocent and it's all a
big mistake.Through the experiences of Brooks, the old librarian, we also see
little known dilemma of so many long-term inmates returning to society.
Despite all the hardships of prison life, the drudgery, the bad food,
the loss of freedom, Brooks has become not only accustomed to, but
dependent on life within the walls. After all the years he's spent at
Shawshank Penitentiary he's forgotten the outside world, and the
outside world, in turn, has moved on, becoming something completely
different from what he once knew. All of his friends, his life's work,
and his purpose are there in the prison. Inside, he's well liked, a
learned man and intellectual among his peers. Outside, he's just an
ex-con who's past his prime and not so steady on his feet anymore.A real measure of this movie's greatness is that so much depth is
given, and so much sympathy generated, for someone who is really a
minor player. His story is only a subplot, yet this film spends more
time and effort characterizing him than many movies spend on their main
characters.Another important theme is what confinement can do to a man's soul.
After years behind bars, most of the inmate's spirits are downtrodden,
if not broken. For them, true happiness is but a memory; hope an
entirely foreign idea. "Hope is dangerous. Hope can get you killed."
Red tells Andy at one point. But Andy is not like the others. He clings
on to hope, even when he has every reason to believe he'll spend the
rest of his life in Shawshank. He's determined that no matter what, he
will not let his spirit be broken.The ending is one of the best I've ever seen, and I wouldn't dream of
giving this one away. I will say that nearly everything that's happened
up to now has, in one way or another, led to this, and that when it's
over, you'll be amazed and uplifted.Shawshank is right up there with the best of Copula, Spielberg, or
Kurosawa. It's the kind of movie that can restore your faith in cinema.
No matter how many lackluster sequels or half-baked packaged deals the
studios come out with, there will always be the Shawshank Redemption.

******
14 January 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is truly one of the best movies ever made.
With picture perfect performances all around. The Shawshank Redemption
is one of those movies you can watch and re-watch and re-watch and love
it each time. The sad part is it didn't get the fame and Oscars it
deserved.7 Oscar Nominations and no wins does not do justice to the quality of
this movie.The Shawshank Redemption is a must buy and keep to watch again and
again. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman's characters as Andy Dufresne and
Red respectively, take them to a whole new level, which in-turn suck
the viewer into their world of highs and lows.If this movie isn't a part of your collection already get it now.

******
13 January 2015
10
I was 16 when I first saw this movie. I had just gotten a car and was
in that high school phase where I argued with my parents about
everything. I was ready to leave my house and drive to a friends when
my parents told me I had to stay home because it was already getting
late on a school night. Naturally, that angered me, but my dad had a
suggestion. "Watch The Shawshank Redemption with us. I think you'll
really like it." I'm still quite grumpy so I respond, "What's it
about?" "The story of how two men bond as they spend years in prison
together." After hearing that, I had absolutely no intention on
watching it, as it sounded incredibly boring. We argued a bit more and
he finally got my stubborn teenage self to sit on the couch and watch
it. And I was blown away. This film immediately became my favorite of
all time, and I had to have watched it with many of my friends over the
following months. This is a film that really opens your eyes on the
important things in life. It's extremely well made, very entertaining
and incredibly inspirational. I highly suggest you take the time to
watch this masterpiece.

******
12 January 2015
10
Have to say i have watched this movie over the years probably 15 times
or more and it never gets old or boring. Great prison film with some
good meaningful acting and some fun also along the way. The acting from
all of the cast is great and some stand out a bit more than others.
There is some violence in there and some that may be a little upsetting
to some people who like light hearted TV but some parts of this film
really do take it a bit further than your boring films with no decent
plot. The plot is well thought out and provides some interesting twists
and turns that will keep you glued to your seat and waiting for more
action. Watch the first 15 minutes and you will be hookedGed

******
11 January 2015
8
Let me get this straight, when I first watched this film I loved it.
However when I first watched this film, I was thirteen, and agreed with
everything I read. I thought the film was too long, with too much fat,
and solemn fat at that. I thought Tim Robbins does a good job, and
plays the role how he ought to, but the role still doesn't set my world
alight. I'm not a Morgan Freeman fan, that's just me personally. I
thought this was one of his more believable roles, before he became a
parody of himself. The worst thing about this film is the script, and I
feel it thrives in moments of silence. I enjoyed the playing of the
record, I thought Brooks hanging himself was excellently done, I
thought the rape scene was nasty but not too gruelling. These scenes
were well judged, because this film could have so easily fallen into
torrid and depressing territory, and it does do that a little bit. I
felt the iconic moments of wisdom, are really not so clever. To me they
sound like quotes written on a page, and scattered throughout.Overall I think it is a very good film. This is me really reviewing
with reference how the average person views the film. What I'm trying
to say is that this is not close to best film of all time material. It
does nothing groundbreaking or exceptional in terms of filming, or
storytelling, or performance or anything. If you watch the film as a
whole it's pretty good but not fantastic, if you look at it in bits,
some bits are fantastic, others are pretty poor. There's no way I can
look at this film an even compare it to Citizen Kane, or Psycho, or
Birth of a Nation. It is not on that level of film making.Eight out of Ten.

******
11 January 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is the movie that is always discussed when
talking about the all time greatest movies. It's just one of those
movies that how it's told is better than the idea of it. With flawless
directing, acting, casting, and dialog, it's sure to one of the all
time greats. The movie teaches you that living is when hope over comes
darkness.It amazes me that one of the most cheerful and hopeful movies takes
place inside a prison. It is captivating to watch a man, presented with
such injustice, fight to make a difference within the walls.Re-watched this classic. The importance of hope, friendship and
perseverance of the human spirit in Andy's character is ever inspiring.10/10

******
11 January 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest films ever made,an
excellent,powerful and unforgettable masterpiece that combines terrific
direction,brilliant performances from an outstanding cast,a wonderful
script and a powerful and memorable score. All of those elements make
The Shawshank Redemption not only one of the best Stephen King
adaptations but a movie that is cinema at it's best.Based on the Novella Rita Hayworth and The Shawshank Redemption by
Stephen King,The Shawshank Redemption tells the story of Andy
Dufresne(Tim Robbins),a banker who is serving two life prison sentences
for killing his wife and lover(although he claims he's innocent)at
Shawshank prison. While at the prison Andy meets fellow inmate
Red(Morgan Freeman)a man who can get things inside and the two form a
long friendship while dealing with life in Shawshank prison.Released in 1994,The Shawshank Redemption is a truly brilliant and
outstanding film that was the directorial debut of Frank Darabont and
his first feature film adaptation of a Stephen King tale. Despite
receiving rave reviews from critics and earning 7 Academy Award
nominations The Shawshank Redemption wasn't a huge hit at the Box
Office and was overshadowed by other classic movies released the same
year such as Pulp Fiction and Forrest Gump. But thanks to television
showings and success on Home Video The Shawshank Redemption became a
classic and one of the most memorable movies of all-time. The Shawshank
Redemption is a film that is an instant classic the first time you
watch it and is a movie that is powerful and dramatic,meaningful and
gripping,uplifting and sad as well as humorous and light. All of those
elements give Shawshank Redemption an emotional weight that reminds
viewers why film is such a beautiful art form because it's a film where
just everything works from the direction,acting and writing where
everything is flawless. The Shawshank Redemption is a prison movie that
has some of the grit and brutality of other prison movies but the
storyline is much different and unpredictable than other prison films
with messages and themes that are repeated throughout such as hope,life
and optimism despite being in prison and dealing with the hardships.
It's rare to see or hear such themes talked about in a prison movie but
that is one of the things that makes Shawshank stand out from the other
movies in the prison genre. Shawshank also shows viewers what a
talented and versatile writer Stephen King truly is showing us that
King can not do Horror and Science Fiction but can also do Drama.
Shawshank along with other great Stephen King adaptations such as The
Green Mile and Stand By Me are prime examples that King can do Drama.
Shawshank also deals with not only prison life but also the passage of
time going from the 1940s to the 1960s with posters of beautiful and
sexy actresses such as Rita Hayworth,Marliyn Monroe and Raquel Welch
showing that while time stands still in prison the world can move
pretty fast. The pace of this movie is just terrific going by fast
making you feel like you're watching a 90 minute film than a 2 and half
hour one. The screenplay by Frank Darabont is amazing and memorable
with dialog that is fresh and powerful as well as memorable and
thoughtful. Shawshank's two main characters Andy and Red are classic
characters who are the anchors of the film showing viewers the kind of
friendship that lasts a long time. Andy and Redd look at prison life in
different ways,Andy despite serving a life sentence believes that there
is still hope beyond the prison walls and no one not the warden or the
guards can't touch inside of him. Whereas Red is opposite and more
cynical believe there is just prison life and that's all there is.
However,despite their opposite ways of thinking Andy and Red's
friendship and bond is strong and grows as the film goes on and when
you see these two throughout the movie you will feel that there is
redemption and hope for Andy and Red. Andy and Red is one of the best
depictions of friendship in movie history and you will never forget
these characters after the film is over. The final 20-30 minutes of The
Shawshank Redemption is one of greatest endings ever seen on film
because there is surprises and happiness that will make you smile and
cry with joy. A masterful conclusion.The cast is outstanding. Tim Robbins is excellent and at his best as
Andy Dufresne,with Robbins bringing a power and emotional depth to the
performance. Morgan Freeman is brilliant and his best as well as
Red,Andy's best friend and prison mate. Robbins and Freeman are magical
together and have great scenes. Bob Gunton is fantastic and memorable
as Wardon Norton,a corrupt prison Wardon. William Sadler is terrific
and funny as Heywood,Andy and Red's friend and fellow prisoner. Clancy
Brown is amazing and menacing as Captain Hadley,a Shawshank's brutal
guard. Gil Bellows is sensational as Tommy,a young convict. James
Whitmore is outstanding as Brooks,an old timer and prisoner. Mark
Rolston(Bogs),Larry Brandenburg(Skeet),Brian Libby(Floyd),Neil
Giuntoli(Jigger),David Proval(Snooze),Joseph Ragno(Ernie)and Jeffrey
McDunn(1946 D.A)give good performances as well.The direction by Frank Darabont is fantastic and stunning,with Darabont
moving the camera with tracking shots,low angles with beautiful and
harsh lighting. Great direction,Darabont.The score by Thomas Newman is terrific,beautiful and epic and is fits
with the movie's tone. Incredible score,Newman.In final word,if you love Tim Robbins,Morgan Freeman,Frank
Darabont,Stephen King,Prison Films or movies in general,I highly
suggest you see The Shawshank Redemption,an excellent and unforgettable
masterpiece that you can watch again and again and is cinema at it's
best. Highly Recommended. 10/10.

******
10 January 2015
10
Stephen King has been known for writing stories that have both confused
and amused the readers. Many great directors have worked with his
stories and have given the audience what they want to see. The
Shawshank Redemption is another one of them. But there is a reason why
it is not just another one of them.The movie represents courage, faith, anger, sufferance, patience and
all the other components of a perfect drama. It teaches so much and is
quite a slow movie. Yet it is one of the most exiting movies I have
seen in my life. The greatest thing about this movie is that it won't
ever bore you. When you sit to watch a 142 minute long movie, it is not
unnatural to look at the clock and see how much of it is left. But I
have not looked at the clock once in all the many times that I have
seen this movie. The time frame where the movie takes place is very
large. But for not once have I felt that it was going too fast.Director Frank Darabont who also wrote the screenplay for the movie did
a great job with excellent actors like Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
He made this movie into one of the best there is and one of the best
there will ever be.

******
10 January 2015
10
Best movie of all time? Maybe a overstatement. Or maybe not? You should
watch the movie and decide for yourself. Im pretty sure this movie wont
let you down, and you will see what all the hype is about. My friends
had to talk me in to see this movie, but I very grateful to them that
they did. This is the best movie I've seen in all my life. Good plot. Excellent
characters. Very good actors, you really get in touch with the
characters. Tim Robbins, surprises me in this movie. Morgan Freeman,
huge fan of him.You should really just rent the movie, sit down, and enjoy this 2 hour
long movie. You will never regret it.And yes, it is as good as everyone says it is :) Enjoy!

******
10 January 2015
10
This movie was made in 1994. And watching this now in 2014, after 20
years, I must say that this movie is beautiful. Thumbs up!!﻿a man in a prison , his wife has "another lover" and the court said
that he killed them, he said he didn't do it but the truth no one
really knows. He has a life of a prisoner, and then after years, he
escaped successfully...The best part of the whole plot is that you don't even realize and the
man plans is escape so well from inside the prison. Watch it till the
end to enjoy.everything about this movie is great. And, there's a reason for this
movie to be No.1 on the IMDb Top 250 List. I have no more words to
explain the awesomeness of this movie. Highly recommend this!﻿

******
10 January 2015
9
Hi guys,This is the best of the best and it is total 100% deserve to place on
top 1.each and every frame of this movie is perfect, specially the character
of a hero and red, this movie is based on a novel and really we don;t
know where it came from all we need a good movie and i found that, this
is my all time best movie ever.life gives you the worst situations but one day is yours, get ready for
worst and you will get a good day too.loved it.....,

******
9 January 2015
10
This had been a movie that anyone should see. Great story, great actors
and a great plot to an overwhelmingly interesting story line. There is
a reason this is the best film on IMDb. It develops very nicely and you
can see a great deal or work put into this movie. Each character has
his own personality that you get accustomed to throughput the movie.
Every aspect and detail is covered very precisely and you are right on
the plot through the whole movie. Don't mind the age of the movie,
usually the older the better. If you love great movies, don't miss this
one, it's a once in a life time watch. There is nothing missing
throughout the whole movie, and the story is just so great.

******
7 January 2015
10
What if the tunnel was blocked at the end and so he ended up trapped
there? I guess he could have crawled backwards and up out the pipe
again, but still horrible to think about. This film is so popular because the pipe symbolizes your working life
and the beach scene at the end is the escape from working life. Its not
about prison, its about the 9 to 5.Everyone wants to do an Andy Dufresne.Also, he'd escaped his marriage and gets to live out his life having
fun on the beach playing around a boat with his pal and that is
presented as the definition of Paradise, maybe it is, but you know it'd
probably get old after a couple of days.

******
5 January 2015
10
This film will forever remain one of my favorite films of all time. The
brilliantly written story, the excellent film work and one of the best
casts I've ever watched. The way this film is directed, keeps the
viewer interested the whole way through while not straining the story,
which is a perfect piece of direction in my opinion. The characters in
the film are so strong that you actually feel emotional at different
points. The setting is also very believable and adds to the story very
well. I love the way this film makes me feel nostalgic to a time when I
wasn't even born, similarly to "Stand By Me". If you've ever wanted to
watch a great piece of film, then watch this. I would recommend this
film to anyone.

******
5 January 2015
9
good good good good film was good. 11/10 This film was a classic a
classic film about escape and escape is what the film is about. 10/10
for effort. 10/10 for film filming. 10/10 for scenes. 10/10 for effort
acting. It is a great film and ranked high on here so that it is the
best cheers thanks for reading it.How can this require 10 lines of review when it was just a good movie
that i liked and really haven't got much more to say really but you
should watch it because it is good. If you have seen this film and you
like my review please give it a 10/10 likes and tell all your friends
about this movie and movie review so they can become famous. If i could
include pictures about this film i would show a picture of fort boyard
that is like this film but in real life and on TV.

******
5 January 2015
10
excellent movie to watch.It tells us the struggle of an innocent man in
jail. I watched this movie and was bewildered by its script as well as
acting of the Morgan freeman and Tim Robbins , these two guys are
legends hats off to there performance . the movie was so interesting
that I watched it over 5 times , as my schedule is so hectic and busy I
still watched it over n over again,considering the fact it is the best
movie on IMDb.the ratings justify the movie. All I want many of users
and browsers of IMDb to watch this movie and you will never forget the
awesomeness of this movie.Its a must watch movie just give it a try, u
will love it I am sure of it. BIG THANKS TO IMDb TO PROVIDE THERE GREAT
INTERFACE TO REGULAR BROWSING PEOPLE AND HELP THEM FINDING AMAZING
MOVIES

******
3 January 2015
10
Never a film had given such a direct meaning to freedom, not a physical
freedom but the one that dwells in the human soul. With this
masterpiece seems the director, Frank Darabont, wants to prove Seneca's
thesis. Seneca, in fact, argued that a man can be free on the throne or
in chains. Though the role was firstly offered to other actors (Kevin
Costner, Tom Hanks and Brad Pitt), Tim Robbins's Dufresne is
extraordinarily expressive. The script is well adapted from the Stephen
King's novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, and though Red
was supposed to be Irish I forgive Darabont because he gave to the
whole world the opportunity to see an amazing Morgan Freeman. I'm
actually disappointed this film didn't won any of the seven Academy
Awards nomination received (Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Adapted
Screenplay, Best Original Score, Best Sound Mixing, Best
Cinematography, Best Film Editing).

******
3 January 2015
8
The manner of story presentation is very impressive , the way main plot
is valiantly attempted to be kept away from the attention and keep
minor sub-plots going surprises the viewer towards the end . It shows
the virtue of patience in success full completion of any task. Apart
from that content was precise , no junk songs or scenes to dilute the
experience of viewer. Overall quite compact , direct , and point to
point method of story telling . Although in terms of marketing , there
might have been concerns of the movie not appearing to be appealing
enough to the viewing audience but who so ever gave it a go , would
have been delighted this excellent masterpiece. So I strongly recommend
everyone to go and watch it for sure.

******
30 December 2014
8
Awesome film! The ending is the pay-off! If you enjoy films like King
stories like the 'Green Mile' you're going to enjoy this! The film is a
period piece, so though I've only just recently watched it, and noted
the date it was made- it doesn't even matter. The characters are real,
and the settings are very authentic. There were only a couple of things
I can honestly say I didn't like. One of them was how prison life
seemed to be portrayed. I think it was a lot worse than what was shown.
I also disliked how 'all-powerful' the warden was. It was heartbreaking
when he had the character of Tommy Williams killed off. Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman were fantastic!

******
30 December 2014
10
I never wrote a review before, but I couldn't resist myself after
watching this movie, no doubt one of the best movie I have watched.I
Had this movie with me from a long time, but never was interested to
watch it. and then couple of times tried to watch it but every time it
was less than 30 Min. and then one of my frnd told me about this movie
he saw and I was so impressed with the story and screenplay. on the
same night I watched it and its amazing.everyone who wants to be thrilled or amazed pls watch this movie. I
would not like to discuss the story because that ruins your pleasure of
watching this movie. but I can assure you that watching this movie will
amaze you.

******
30 December 2014
10
Instead of the other prison and drama movies, this film was really
emotional and absorbing. First years of our main character, he
experienced harmful things and the movie made us feel that mood. We
could barely understand that he would escape from prison but I couldn't
make a thought about how he will escape, with digging a hole? Yes, he
dug a hole and escaped but It wasn't like the other prison-escape
movies. The plot was strong, cast was strong and we lived while we were
watching the film, for me of course. I loved the film and this is one
of those 'unforgetable' movies. I don't like to watch films that I
already watched but I can watch this movie ten times and will not get
bored. We need productions like this one. And lastly Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman.. They didn't act, they lived the movie..

******
29 December 2014
9
The Shawshank Redemption is an uplifting, deeply satisfying prison
drama with sensitive direction and fine performances. The Shawshank
Redemption is a 1994 epic American drama film written and directed by
Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. It is
ranked #1 in IMDb's "Top 250" list based on over a million votes (9.3
out of 10) and is considered one of the best movies of all time.Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who is
sentenced to life in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife
and her lover despite his claims of innocence. During his time at the
prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, and
finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him
in his money laundering operation.Despite being a box office flop (that barely recouped its budget), the
film received multiple award nominations and outstanding reviews from
critics for its acting, story, and realism. It has since been
successful on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray. It was included
in the American Film Institute's 100 Years...100 Movies 10th
Anniversary Edition.

******
28 December 2014
10
I have read thousands of books, and seen thousands of movies. This was
one of the very few motion pictures that not only captivated the
attention of the audience with an epic storyline, but was also a
masterpiece of cinematography.The film contains every single characteristic of truly exceptional
storytelling: The story has a solid protagonist and clearly defined
antagonists. The events allow us to escape our petty concerns of the
moment, and personally identify with the injustice of life. The
cinematography breaks the barriers of present day prejudice, without
ever directly referencing them. The concepts presented show us what is
within our control, and what is decided for us. The dialogue bears
witness to the realities we prefer to ignore, without actually giving
us unwanted imagery.Most important of all, the film's climax provides us with a shining
example of what we all crave: no matter the challenges we face, hope is
the only thing that cannot be taken from us. If we retain hope, we will
achieve the redemption that every individual seeks.I don't believe any one story can be given the title of the best of all
time. However, this film comes as close as motion pictures can achieve.

******
28 December 2014
10
This movie is amazing, no doubt about it. Forget about all the people
saying it's the most overrated movie of all time, they're just bitter.
Maybe Shawshank didn't have the most amazing, draw-dropping
cinematography, camera work, etc. ever from start to finish (all the
things that made films such as the Godfather so great. Granted, it's
not like Shawshank had a lot to work with since a majority of the film
was set at the prison), but it had an enjoyable, moving, inspirational
story. It also had really enjoyable characters, particularly Andy
Dufresne, who is my favorite fictional character. I liked him from the
start.Anyway, I think the Shawshank Redemption is the highest rated movie on
this site because it's simply a great film. Easy to understand and
follow, easy to love, and easy to be moved by. As IMDb has in the FAQ
for this movie, "It is perhaps worthwhile to remember that the top 250
list doesn't really measure what individuals consider the best movies
of all time. It measures the collective opinion of the films in which
people have the greatest positive feel when they are rating it. People
are not voting for the movie against other movies. They are voting for
it based on their opinion at the time have decided to rate it on IMDb."
So, when people complain about how it's overrated, just think about
that.Tim Robbins, when asked about why he chose to do this movie, (in
addition to saying how he was moved and inspired by the story) said,
"it's not just about prison. It's about the limitations we put on
ourselves and life, and the limitations, more importantly, we allow
others to place on us. And if we listen to them, and we believe what
these people are saying to us, then we're really building walls around
ourselves. We're really building our own prison What the film is
saying in a larger way is that in order to keep alive and keep living
in a strong and thorough way that oftentimes you have to look beyond
the walls around you. And you have to not believe in the prison and
believe in that light, and that hope, and that person that you think
you can be, and the person that you believe you are, and not listen to
what your boss is saying, what your spouse is saying, what your leaders
are saying." I don't think I can elaborate much further. The Shawshank
Redemption taught me to hold onto hope and believe in myself. I'm
reminded of that Emily Dickinson poem, "Hope is the Thing with
Feathers," and I think it represents a lot of what Andy stood for.

******
25 December 2014
10
I think a movie is unconscious and is still the best and I everyone i
can.Nagyon offer thought-provoking throughout story.Really live problem
is that if you spend too much time institution will depend on him and
do not find yourself later world. Morgan Freed also extremely well
suited to the role , for me, the One of the best actors I've ever even
particularly like the I knew.Ami the time in which it takes place
throughout this period in particular, like him.This film is a perfect
example of how you can be the epitome of a good story to make.If I
could I would go back to this era and very happy to be living in it ,
is quite close to my heart.

******
24 December 2014
10
Movie is full of emotion, human sentiments.. best movie ever. The way
movie plot unfolds. It is really amazing to see. The story begins with
the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense, victimized by
circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for the murder of
his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy finds himself
serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope of parole. He
exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his mind free from
the drab walls around him. His ability to do this results in the
gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of all from Ellis
Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds gainful use of his
entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of Shawshank by dealing in
contraband and commodities rare to the confines of prison. Andy's
demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to take a deeper look
at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to Red and the other
inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank prison convention
will find no home in his lifestyle.

******
14 December 2014
8
First, I read Stephen King's "Different Seasons" as soon as it came out
(I was around 19 I guess), and was enthralled by his writing. Of
course, I had no idea 3 out of the 4 novellas would eventually adapted
into movies, but I am not surprised. It is impossible to put whatever
pictures you have in your mind onto the screen, so that is why everyone
compares the book to the movie. The same happened to me with "Treasure
of the Sierra Madre" (HIGHLY recommend reading the book), even with
Bogie playing, it was a tough transition to see it on the screen. I
assume at least 80-90% of those who saw either one never read the
books. ANYway...the Shawshank Redemption was very "full" of character
development, and amazing passion from Morgan Freeman especially. He is
an expert in his craft, and for me, his peak. I will be watching this
soon again with my wife who has not seen many American films.

******
7 December 2014
9
Shawshank is a emotionally diverse and wonderful story of friendship
that takes place in a harsh, rough prison setting. The acting in this
movie was superb! It easily has to be one of the top movies made in the
last few decades. Morgan Freeman was outstanding as "Red" a jail
broker, who knew how to get what anyone needed. Tim Robbins as "Andy",
a like able banker from the city, who was wrongly convicted of
murdering his wife. He gets sentenced to Shawshank prison. Andy and Red
begin to take you on a story involving many different emotions
regarding life in prison and the relationships that are formed and
develop. The various events that they occur during their time in prison
kept me engaged throughout this long movie. This movie left me
satisfied and fulfilled as a movie goer. I hope Hollywood can use this
film as a template to make more movies of this quality again. I would
highly recommend this to anyone who hasn't had the pleasure of seeing
it!

******
6 December 2014
8
He Shawshank Redemption is in a league with Casablanca as a movie you
can watch over and over, catching different nuances each time and
bringing your own life experiences each time you watch it. Tim Robbins
gives the performance of his career and this is the movie for which
Morgan Freeman should have won an Oscar (a shame he had to wait for
Million Dollar Baby.) There are many twists and turns and I defy anyone
to watch the ending without tears running down their face. In fact, the
entire last third of movie is filled with marvelous scenes. If there is
any drawback to this movie, it is that it is a shade too long, meaning
it's often butchered when it is shown with commercials on TV. Rent
this, or better yet, buy it to get the full thrust of it. Definitely on
my personal top 10

******
4 December 2014
10
Great movie! With a great sense! Everyone needs to see it at least once
in your life! Tim Robbins played great, as well as Morgan Freeman!
William Sadler was also on top! I love this movie! Each replica in this
film contains a deep meaning! Which makes you wonder about many things!
All the same, not all of the film adaptation of Stephen King's books
are terrible! There are exceptions! And this movie in this number!
Directing excellent! Here we can not speak bad! This profile is one of
the best that I saw in my entire life! Of films in the world is very
small! If everyone in this film was such as this, the crime would not
be in our world!

******
3 December 2014
10
The Best Film in Top 250 is One of the Great Films I've ever Seen in
this Masterpiece you can find a way for life crisis The Shawshank
redemption is a film for Relaxing especially end of it when red came to
Andy I Think this sense even better than red's Escape but why many of
world people love the film? I Think everyone can enjoy it length of
film is 142 mins maybe more for a film with no action sense but I think
no one end of it but a question for me is why darabont can't make
masterpieces like it and green mile rhythm of movie is an important
thing for addressed in the Shawshank redemption rhythm don't tire you
and characters are not superstars with more ability than a human Andy
could find a way for escape because he was an innocent man and don't
kill his wife and prison is a character in this film like green mile
maybe you loved like or hate this movie but I am one of the fans of
darabont's masterpiece

******
3 December 2014
10
I must say i am really impressed!I watched the trailer and wasn't really intrigued by it, however
watching the movie itself turned that around completely. Most trailers
turn out better than the movie itself but this film is the complete
opposite.Adapted from a Stephen King novel, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption, i could already tell this was going to be great. Even
though the story does reach its climax at a slow pace i would say that
it is definitely worth the watch.I would recommend a nice cup of coffee to warm your inners, but in this
case, the film already does that.

******
2 December 2014
10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
1 December 2014
10
Greetings from Croatia to all...just want to say that this movie is for
me,personally,the best movie ever made....keep up the good work...great
acting and great theme..and now to complete my review i must write 10
lines of text so i will just speaking about everything :D so what
should i write? There's not a day goes by I don't feel regret. Not
because I'm in here, because you think I should. I look back on the way
I was then: a young, stupid kid who committed that terrible crime. I
want to talk to him. I want to try to talk some sense to him, tell him
the way things are. But I can't. That kid's long gone, and this old man
is all that's left. I got to live with that. Rehabilitated? It's just a
bulls*** word. So you go on and stamp your form, sonny, and stop
wasting my time. Because to tell you the truth, I don't give a sh**.the
best quote ever! :D

******
1 December 2014
10
My life is forever changed due to this movie. It is a movie of hope,
"redemption", and friendship. It shows a deep growing friendship
between two prisoners, Andy and Red. They each are shown growing
through their distinct hardships at Shawshank prison. As time passes,
hope wanes but a flame burns bright in Andy. His hope and unrelentless
nature carry over to his friend Red.As Red's long stay in prison comes to an end he sees the light at the
end of the tunnel. Andy has left it for him to see the way to freedom,
and he follows it.This film parallels my life and leaves me wondering if my advice will
help somebody see the light. For some of those people time will tell.
As for now I'll be patient to wait and see. Don't end up like Brooks,
there will always be someone to help you out. There is someone out
there that cares for you. Thank you Andy Dufresne, your hope is the
flame of my life.

******
1 December 2014
10
This is a great movie! 10/10. I'd put this movie at the top of IMDb's
Top 250 Movies. It's hard to put any movie over The GodFather, but this
could be the one. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins give the performances
of a lifetime in a great Frank Darabont film. The timeless story of
friendship and compassion in hard times is a great lesson and
cinematography. In the end, I'd say that this movie is the greatest
film of all time. The Scorsese films are hard to top, but Shawshank's
story, emotional moments and legendary actors push it over the top. I'd
say that the other movies after this one would be: The Dark Knight, The
Godfather, The Return of the King and Pulp Fiction. The Dark Knight had
the best portrayal of The Joker in cinema history, by the late Heath
Ledger. He delivers a raw, maniacal portrayal of the Batman's
archenemy. Unfortunately, Heath isn't here to see the public reaction,
but his legacy as The Joker will live on forever.

******
30 November 2014
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and
directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
It is ranked #1 in IMDb's "Top 250" list based on over a million votes
(9.3 out of 10) and is considered one of the best movies of all time.
Despite being a box office flop (that barely recouped its budget), the
film received multiple award nominations and outstanding reviews from
critics for its acting, story, and realism. It has since been
successful on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray. It was included
in the American Film Institute's 100 Years...100 Movies 10th
Anniversary Edition.

******
30 November 2014
9
This movie has almost everything you need. Twists, love... everything.I can't really say something badly about this movie and trust me i've
seen EVERYTHING there is to see.If i want to pick on something that is bad about this movie i have to
really watch thru it just to cover something bad but i won't do that.So yes i recommend this movie for everyone.9/10Only why i don't give it 10/10 is because it's not my favorite genre of
movie but that's all >_<There are lots of movies you can compare with this masterpiece, like
the godfather movies and others you see in the top 250 IMDb list.

******
30 November 2014
10
The best movie I have ever seen. The bond among the two main characters
is absolutely astonishing throughout the whole movie. Although the film
is old (20 years from now) the script is amazingly well written and
ordered. The most shocking is that this story might happen to anyone.
After the end of the movie I was with mixed feelings. This is a movie
with lot of thought-provoking messages like these for friendship,
loyalty, strength of character and never giving up on your dreams. I
liked it very much because the main character has so many qualities
that describe my personality. Creations like this are real masterpiece
to the cinema at all.

******
28 November 2014
10
I guess s. redemption is the simplest most reliable movie that can be
watched with great expectation ... yeah ... good movie ..... glad it
got to be no 1 on the list ... not that just because its mainstream ...
it has one of the best endings a movie can have ... well i was hoping
one of Christopher Nolans movie would be no 1 but .. hey this movie
deserves it .. and em .... well .. so sad to know that it didn't get
any Oscars ... thats a bummer .. well the actors are great the story is
good and the direction is even better a movie that ill never forget
even if i get an amnesia or something .. well even though ill never let
that happen .. i guess .word .

******
26 November 2014
9
One Of the Best Movie Ever Made.Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive life terms
in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is sentenced to
a tough prison. However, only Andy knows he didn't commit the crimes.
While there, he forms a friendship with Red (Morgan Freeman),
experiences brutality of prison life, adapts, helps the warden, etc.,
all in 19 years.The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
21 November 2014
10
I love this film. It's a story about hope and dreams and one whose
emotional impact is as great as the Pacific Ocean is blue. An amazing
movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and definitely
one of the top 'prison' movies of all-time. Pretty much everything
about this movie works and works extremely well! I have not read
Stephen King's novella (his first non-horror), but some of the movie's
deficiencies, such as the old-fashioned morality tale and portentous
message about camaraderie and redemption--must have been in the source
material. Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a man who has never
struck a false note in his career, both narrates this tale and anchors
it with his authoritative playing.

******
21 November 2014
10
16 March 2006 The Shawshank Redemption is in a league with Casablanca
as a movie you can watch over and over, catching different nuances each
time and bringing your own life experiences each time you watch it. Tim
Robbins gives the performance of his career and this is the movie for
which Morgan Freeman should have won an Oscar (a shame he had to wait
for Million Dollar Baby.) There are many twists and turns and I defy
anyone to watch the ending without tears running down their face. In
fact, the entire last third of movie is filled with marvelous scenes.
If there is any drawback to this movie, it is that it is a shade too
long, meaning it's often butchered when it is shown with commercials on
TV. Rent this, or better yet, buy it to get the full thrust of it.
Definitely on my personal top 10.

******
20 November 2014
10
I like this movie, it's one of my favorites. Not to flashy with all the
special effects they use nowadays but still keeps your attention. The
sometimes unexpected turns in the story are nice as is the friendship
between inmates. Roles well played. A story well told. Its not good
enough for the best movie ever but it's definitely one of the best. The
acting is solid. The details are correct. Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins)
is played well from the beginning until the end it is still the same
character. No unrealistic changes. Freeman, who is simply a great
actor. This is one of his best works. I'd love to see him play like
this again because what he does nowadays is mediocre. I like the
references made to other stories like the count of Monte Cristo.

******
18 November 2014
8
This movie has some very good acting from several cinema stars and has
a great plot about a man that has things turn out wrong for him because
of the problems in society. My advice would be to watch the film and
decide for yourself if you like it or not. I don't know what to really
say about it besides the fact that a person should at least see this
movie once in their lifetime. Society has changed in a lot of ways and one way is described in this
film by showing just how racist and corrupt the government as well as
the people of this time period. That time period being the 1950's I'm
guessing because it's been awhile since I saw this film. Can't say that
I am really giving away spoilers because I am simply writing that I
enjoyed the film but also don't want IMDb to block my account again.

******
17 November 2014
9
Shawshank Redemption is another great movie. This movie is telling
about the Andy Dufresne's life, performed by Tim Robbins. He is a young
banker who has a high opportunity in his job, then his life is turning
into the dark, he has to move into a jail just because the court judged
that he killed his wife and adulterer while he did not do anything.
This point shows me about gap in the law and how the justice court
becomes unfair, it's like a reflection of the reality and i do like it.
However, the story is told by Red, Morgan Freeman, a close friend of
Andy while he was in a prison, it broadcasts every single things in
prison, such like right, equality, freedom, and corruption. That's why
the movie can persuade the audiences to believe that Andy was really
wrong. The story is telling very silently, but the unexpected situation
is coming up continuously.It does not make me surprise when I heard that Shawshank got many
awards, even many people said that Forrest Gump is better than it and
got the rewards more. In my opinion, I think it is because Shawshank is
hard for understanding sometimes and the audiences did not get it. It's
like this movie is telling by the third party and it was just a new
style of a movie at that time. Deeply, It is amazing for me because I
cannot guess what is the truth, what is not.

******
16 November 2014
9
The Shawshank Redemption is written by Stephen King and directed by
Frank Darabont, this two men also produced the film named 'the green
mile'. This film is about one young and successful man who works in
bank named 'Andy Dufresne who is convicted by court that he murdered
his wife and her lover. This made him has to get in the jail named
Shawshank, which has many friendship, injustice, ferocity, and hope.
With the good storytelling make this film isn't that boring although
it's a long movie but we all forget the time while watch it. This story
show many sides of the society, show the part of prisoners that do not
get the acceptance from the society, show the part of many richer who
has power but corruption the society. The injustice between people and
prisoners make this film is interesting. With the good a casting, story
telling, edited, sound technical and many things make is film is
perfect. As you know that this film is the best movie on IMDb and I
also guarantee that this movie will make you impress.

******
16 November 2014
9
I just said 'representation of world', because actually it is ! The
shawshank redemption showed how world is cruel and cannot be
forecasted, by using limited area and place with specific characters.
It is quite old film but, still can be explained this era. I tried to
watch this film as 2 kinds of views. First, I saw the shawshank jail
represent as the human society. In limited place, people really want to
make their own 'laws and rules' for them. Sometimes, it looks like
nonsense nor illogical but, we;I mean human did actually and.. In this
society, there is invisible hierarchy also. Secondly, This film showed
how people are survive with their own way in society. Some people do
not understand the change, and also some other people are against the
laws and rules, such as Andy. Especially, Brooks who kill himself
showed the people who do not accept the change their environment. I can
see myself, which kind of people am I? This film tells us many things,
not only these. When time after time, it will be showed different way,
so sure.

******
16 November 2014
10
Classic film. Brilliantly told. A must see. Don't make them like they
used to. Morgan freeman as the best role.An innocent man is sent to prison and has a hard time with it too. Gets
friendly with a prison officer whilst secretly planning his escape.For those that have not seen this movie you must see it.Won't spoil it for you but there are many twists to this story.Hope you enjoy it as much as i did. Also check out the Bird Man another
great film of this genre. This truly is one of the greatest prison
movies that has ever come across the big screen. Just wish they would
make more movies like this one.Thanks Jake Jonas

******
13 November 2014
10
The best Hollywood movie I've ever seen. The screenplay, the background
score, the story line is epic and original. I just wish there is a
Shawshank redemption 2. Morgan freeman's acting is one of the best as a
supporting actor. The mood swings rigorously through every emotion as
the cranky, wiseguy and downright crazed array of criminals bare the
brunt of the turbulent life within the doomy Shawshank catacomb. Then
it gets really mean, gearing up for its injury-time shockers. Dufresne,
a whiz with figures, is bullied into running the warden's (Gunton)
petty accounting scams, giving him the chance to execute his and the
film's final, greatest miracle.

******
13 November 2014
10
Shawshank is a good example of how adaptation works - or more
specifically, how changes made to the original story in translation
often benefit the finished product. The best example of this is the
character of Red, who in the original novel is a red-headed Irishman.
This is referred to jokingly by Morgan Freeman in one of his first
conversations with Tim Robbins; when Andy asks why people call him Red,
Red responds: "Maybe it's because I'm Irish.".On top of Freeman's obvious ability, the casting decision makes sense
because it adds an extra layer of meaning to the character. Red is one
of the few black characters we come across; while he applies himself in
different ways, he is as much of an outsider as Andy DuFresne. This is
borne out by his remarks about institutionalization, which are laughed
off by his fellow inmates. Red may be well-connected when it comes to
smuggling things in, but otherwise he is just as lonely as Andy.Shawshank approaches the theme of institutionalization with great grace
and dexterity. Because the story takes place over three decades, the
temptation would be to canter through the plot points and cut straight
to Andy's escape - you could even stage the entire story in flashback.
Instead, Darabont allows the film to unfold at a gentle, gradual pace,
reflecting the mind-set of the characters. They don't realize how
trapped they are until it's too late, just as we don't realize that
two-and-a-half hours has passed until the credits have begun to roll.The characters reflect the different extents and effects of
institutionalization. Brooks has built his entire identity around his
books and role in the prison; he is so afraid of this being taken away
that he attempts to kill William Sadler's character so he can stay
inside. Red is aware of how trapped he is, and shares Brooks' fears,
being unsure that he could get things for Andy on the outside. But at
the same time, he refuses to let himself be vulnerable, trying to play
the system and constantly getting turned down for parole. Andy allows
himself to be vulnerable and endures all the pain that it brings him,
sustained by the knowledge of his innocence and the hope that he will
escape.Shawshank is perhaps the most powerful depiction of hope in all of
cinema. The original short story, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption, was subtitled 'Hope Springs Eternal'. The film returns to
hope and the celebration of the human spirit like a leitmotif, and
succeeds because it retains Andy's humanity in all its many shades.
While he is very different to the other prisoners, he is never
presented as a saint or goody-goody, smiling gormless in the face of
maddening torment. This makes his endurance all the more powerful: we
recognize our faults in his moments of weakness, and aspire to his
inner moral strength.The film has attracted many Christian interpretations - in fact, in my
review of John Carpenter's The Thing, I called it "a poster child for
Christianity". It's not hard to see why, considering its celebration of
inner strength and devotion, and its overall arc of good triumph over
evil against the greatest odds. While Andy has been called a Christ
figure, he's just as close to the character of Daniel in the Old
Testament: he finds himself in a strange land against his will, and in
order to survive he applies his natural talents to the service of his
temporal masters. Through his labors the people around him benefit and
the system is eventually changed for the better - albeit through pain,
suffering and several deaths.An equally intriguing interpretation comes from Mark Kermode, who
authored a BFI Modern Classic on the film in 2003. In a video
discussing cinematic depictions of Richard Nixon, Kermode made the
argument that Warden Norton (played brilliantly by Bob Gunton) is an
allegory for Nixon, with Andy's prison term matching Nixon's political
career. Norton begins reaching out for friendship (Nixon seeking to be
elected), then becomes the corrupt leader (beginning in the year that
Kennedy was shot), and finally descends into paranoia and disgrace,
culminating in a more literal suicide than Nixon offered us.Whether you believe these interpretations or not, Shawshank is a
terrific piece of dramatic film-making which soars on the strengths of
its main performers. Tim Robbins perfectly captures Andy's distant,
ethereal quality while retaining his wry and infectious sense of humor.
Morgan Freeman's performance may well be responsible for his subsequent
type-casting, but he matches Robbins beat for beat, offsetting hope
with world-weariness and guilt. There's also great support from two
actors who would subsequently work with Darabont again - William Sadler
(who appears in The Green Mile) and James Whitmore (The Majestic).The Shawshank Redemption may not be entirely worthy of its number one
ranking on IMDb, but it remains a really terrific piece of drama let
down only by its final scene. In every other aspect it's a masterpiece,
as a character piece, a treatise on hope and a beautifully paced and
mounted Stephen King adaptation. It remains a must-see for all film
fans of penchant or persuasion, earning its status as a modern classic
and securing a warm place in our hearts.

******
12 November 2014
8
Great Movie had excellent characters in the film. I thought it was well
made and had symbolism. There were lots of points and details about the
script that made the movie arc. The filmography was excellent and
captured every moment to be real. This movie can take you on a trip and
also to have a self discovery. Some people can relate to the tragedies
and struggles in the movie. The movie was clear and made its point. I
feel that this movie had important roles that portray the character's
individuality. I recommend this movie to anyone who'd like to watch a
meaningful story. The actor's really caught in the moment and living in
the moment was interesting.

******
12 November 2014
10
This work from 1994 directed and written by a Hungarian-American Frank
Darabont that was based on Stephen King's novella Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption was nominated for several highly appreciated
awards, including The Academy Awards and The Golden Globe Awards. In
spite of being nominated for so many prestigious prizes, it did not win
any. However, this fact cannot put a shadow over the fantastic job that
was done while making the movie. Critics from all over the world were
absolutely amazed by the drama with outstanding and unbelievably
realistic scenery. It is simply a must to pay a great respect to the
main protagonists  experienced Morgan Freeman as Red, a man who will
provide you with everything you need, and irreplaceable Tim Robbins as
Andy Dufresne, a banker who was unjustly convicted of murdering his
wife and her lover.The story starts in the late 1940's when a banker Andy Dufresne is
sentenced to two consecutive life sentences at the Shawshank State
Penitentiary for murdering his wife and her lover. He instantly becomes
a friend with a contraband smuggler and the film's narrator Ellis "Red"
Redding who procures a rock hammer for Andy so he can create small
stone chess pieces. Soon, Andy unleashes his financial skills when he
overhears the merciless guard chief Hadley complaining about taxes.
Thanks to his former occupation, Andy is given a position in the
library so he can manage financial matters for Shawshank. As the years
pass, Norton, the head of the prison, uses the library and public works
worked by prison labor to undercut skilled labor costs so he can
receive huge kickbacks. Andy is used for laundering the money using the
alias "Randall Stephens". In the mid-1960's young Tommy Williams, an
irredeemable burglar, is imprisoned. He gets close with Andy and Red
and when hearing the details of Andy's case begins to talk about his
former inmate. He explains that the inmate told him how he had killed
two people and got away with it which seems to be a proof of Andy's
innocence. Unfortunately, as soon as Norton hears a word about it, he
has young Tommy shot by Hadley. This appears to be enough for Andy. He
tells Red about his secret dream of living in a Mexican coastal village
and instructs him how to get there when he is free. The next day,
Andy's cell is found empty. Norton and the guards find out that Andy
escaped through a tunnel which he had dug with his rock hammer over the
previous two decades. While they are searching for him, Andy, as
Randall Stephens, visits a large number of banks to withdraw the
laundered money. Besides that, he sends a package with evidence of what
has happened at the prison to a regional newspaper. Will the police and
the newspaper trust Andy? Will he and Red ever meet again? Go and watch
the bravura ending.It is hard to find a more proper word for the film than a masterpiece.
The Shawshank Redemption is an opportunity to witness how fate is the
best judge in the end, how a frightened cat can turn into a brave lion
and how a friendship can be developed even in the darkest moments of
ones' lives. Next, I was really impressed by the perfect narrating
skills of Mr. Freeman. The actor's storytelling keeps you deeply
settled in your seat and you are able to literally breathe the story. I
haven't seen such a well-thought-out plot like this in a long time. The
diligent work of the producers, cameramen, costume designers, make-up
and hair stylists and all of the crew will be remembered. I can't write
this without mentioning the set. I have already talked about it, but I
need to praise it a little bit more. It was so easy to get into the
plot thanks to the set  you do not get a chance to doubt the realism
of the scenery. Another aspect to be spotlighted is the soundtrack.
Magnificent Thomas Newman and his team produced a piece of quality
material which does not stay unnoticed and bonds you even more with the
whole drama. Last but not least, I must applaud the directing and
screen writing of Mr. Darabont who created a completely unique and new
experience for TV viewers and cinema audiences. We can only guess what
happens in the end until we finally get to see the finish line of
Shawshank. I guarantee you will end up with a wide smile on your face.To sum up, we can only thank the entire crew for the spectacular
project with an inspiring story of not giving up. The conclusion of my
review is as brief as it can be  go and book your place in front of
the big screen! You will not regret it. The massive number of emotions
you can experience while watching The Shawshank Redemption will make
you laugh or cry whenever you want.

******
11 November 2014
10
This is not just a film. This is not just a work of art that transcends
the black and white of human outlook to caste, justice and freedom and
paints the human soul in all its true colors. This is not just life set
in motion that takes us through it all - jealousy, hopelessness, irony,
tragedy, monotony, inspiration, perseverance, success, and the unending
miracle that is life itself. This is all of these and more."The Shawshank Redemption" is as much about the story it tells as about
the way it tells it. We have to really immerse ourselves to understand
and share the protagonist's exuberance of redemption that is the
principal focal point of the entire film. And the slow and steady
unfolding of events in an apparent idyllic manner makes it very easy
for us viewers to get engrossed into this wonderfully threaded,
emotionally rich story.All the actors in the film were in perfect tune with one another. Never
for once did any of them give an impression that this is a work of
fiction and not a true incident captured on camera in real time. Tim
Robbins is easily the finest of the cast, portraying the initially
deranged, subsequently fearful and tentative, and ultimately the
emancipated Andy Dufresne with total compulsion. Morgan Freeman is
equally captivating as the wise and ever-supportive "Red" Redding, with
his wry indifference to the sufferings of life, which finally gives way
plain and raw happiness at his own emancipation.This is a film that makes us appreciate the beauty and subtlety of
life, soothes our soul, gives us hope and inspires us to keep trying
till we reach our own "redemption" - our own freedom from the failures
that bind us to the success that we always crave. This is film of life,
for life, and a film to live by.

******
10 November 2014
9
This movies is the first movie I watch that actually showed me that
movies can be so much more then just entertainment. Though I was always
a movie lover, and I never knew why, this movie showed me how great
movies can be. It really taught me to read into movies more and that,
like music, there are some great ones that will stand the test of time.
This movie showed me to give all movies a chance and made me start
watching some old ones that I never would have before.The acting is solid, the story is clear and easily understood. The
writing is wonderful. The editing is seamless. And finally the overall
quality of everything in this movie will stand the test of time no
matter how many re-masters we get, and I hope we get a lot of them.Great movie and I believe anyone can enjoy it at any time.

******
10 November 2014
8
The Shawshank Redemption actually an outstanding film that come up with
a story of dealing with prisons as seen by several prisoner. In the
movie show many social problems, which are all discussed in the movie.
Also it has a emotionally attached at the end of the film it almost
make me cry out. This movie can capture and identify with American male
spirit as it shows in movie. The movie actually talking about the
development of friendship between Red and Andy is charming and
appealing. For this movie is consisting of a beautiful personal film
fantastic acting well crafted story, great scenes, great characters and
awesome plot, which make this movie turn out this good. It's the most
touching and heart warming film of human spirit that I have seen and it
might be a great movie to watch with family and be one of the best
movies of all time. This film truly is a masterpiece. If you miss this
film you will be missing out one of the finest film.

******
10 November 2014
9
"When the world is not that kind of beautiful. Injustice is the only
thing that exist." It's from the wrote of Stephen King and arranged by
Frank Darapont, the very good director, although they can't get so much
view but people said it's kind of the best film.They tell the story to Andy Dufresne, the banker who was sentenced to
be in prison because of killed his wife. So, he was in jail at
Shawshank. He had to bear with wickedness everyday.It's kind of normal movie that is just a good man in the prison that
everything is very frightful. But this movie can make us concentrated
without anything to complain.

******
10 November 2014
10
One of the finest movie ever I have watched. Whenever I get depressed,
I watch this movie again and again. Salute to all actors and director
of this movie. I am really fortunate to got chance to watch such very
good movie. The way movie photographed is excellent. Background music
is also soulful. Story and screenplay amazing. Everybody must watch
this movie in their life time at least for once. Life in jail is hell
and how jailer and his guards abuses the system is canvased in
detailed. Hats off to producer too. I have seen movie in English and
dubbed in Hindi too. I will rate this movie as greatest. Never say die
and killing instinct the movie resembled.

******
10 November 2014
9
I think everyone who saw this movie will like it. If you are director
or director photography, this is the best technique of camera shot. It
looks like a easy shot but it will be great. Some shot in this movie i
think it will use after effects for making that shot but in that time i
think adobe just was born. Thus the director of this movie is
intelligent. He can make a lot of technique in that time but some shot
has a mistake. We will can observe some shot is not real or unusual. I
think overall are great. I copy some technique to improve my film too.
The actors of movie are smart. They make the audience believe with
their acting. I love it too much.

******
9 November 2014
10
Simple but complicate. This movie is great movie in element of the
story telling. I haven't known the plot before; I thought It was a
regular movie but it wasn't. It is one of the best movie that I ever
seen. Frank Darabont did a great job and he has directed clearly story.
He makes every character in the movie become important in the movie.
Firstly, I thought Anny was tried to survive in the prison day by day.
Red he was a leader of the prisoner. At first I thought he would have a
conflict with Anny because He imported things from outside the prison
to sold in prison to make a profit for himself. Anny always asked for
different thing from other prisoners with him. But truly he had a
coolest plan for getting out of prison. The story was complicated but
story was telling smoothie because he had plan to escape from the
prison. He made the warden trust him by working for him. The warden
used him to did his dirty work even he had destroyed the last evidence
that Anny wasn't guilt. Finally, Anny payback by a very cleaver plan. So, If you are the fan of prison brake movie. You must watch.

******
9 November 2014
10
Tim Robbins is very good at what he does. So is the evergreen Morgan
Freeman. I have always been a fan of Morgan freeman. But I saw this
movie recently. It has inclined Mr Freemans position in my heart.
Acting is mind blowing, with the perfect combination of screenplay and
direction the movie has emerged as something miraculously beautiful.
Movie sticks to its plot so nicely that there ain't a moment when you
go astray. Dialogue are so heart striking you feel every single
dialogue since you are embedded in the story as characters itself.
There are a few goofs in the movie, but considering the fact that the
movie has gone beyond the definitions of a good cinema we can leave
those for good. I am literally asking every cinema lover to watch this
to their hearts content.

******
9 November 2014
10
The movie is amazing.First let me begin with the theme of the movie. The theme and the
concept of the movie is quit predictable because before watching i know
that it is a movie about a main character try to break out the the
prison and i am quit sure that at the end the main character will
succeed and it is definitely like what i thought. but what make this
movie great are what is in the movie. All the detail that are given and
toward the running of the story line that make it is unpredictable for
me of what going to happen next even though i already know that he will
break out of the prison successfully.The setting of the movie is not much special because most of the time
it is in the prison so not much to talk about, but it is still great
that we as a viewer got the see how a real prison look like a how does
it really feel as we follow the main character throughout the whole
movie.The lighting of the movie is pretty dark and giving a sad and hopeless
feeling to us viewer so it is great that we get to feel what the
characters feel too.This movie gave me a point of view of a people who is in a prison for
to long and don't have a clue of what they will do if they ever got a
chance to come out again or not. This movie contain many emotion
feeling of the character and really done well on delivering it to us
viewing.The casting of the movie is amazing all the character and the actor
really look believable like they are who they are.After watched the movie, it gave me so many thing to think about and
how hard and how corrupt the world is today, even though the world we
live on now is on the different era but there will always be a bad man,
and it will never change. We just need to do what is right and continue
doing it.

******
9 November 2014
10
No words that i can think of even comes close of how amazing this movie
really is. its funny, thrilling and bone chilling. what i really love
about this movie is that you really feel for the characters as if they
were family. when Brooke's committed suicide I was holding on a pillow
shouting. It has it moment, and the greatest flaw of this movie in my
opinion is pacing. The Shawshank Redemption may be a tad slow, but it
is justified. I believe director Frank Darabont wanted to show Andy's
time at Shawshank by showing how slow prison time really is. Some
movies are just slow; this movie does it for a deeper reason, adding to
Shawshank's genius.Adding to the slow pacing, Andy acting is neutral is bare shows
emotion. Which is charming in a way, because Straight face can
magically immerse you in a weird way. Neo from the Matrix series for
instance. Tim Robbins did this on purpose. Andy was quiet, mellow, and
was obviously quite shocked and angry he was going to prison for a
crime he didn't do. I feel like the fact that he acted like this just
added to the realistic atmosphere of the movie.In one word, a masterpiece Have come at the wrong time. Nevertheless,
still an unforgettable movie. The story will take in. Great movie with
fantastic performances by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins..This kind of movie will get you off the hook at first, But it's an
acquired taste that you will receive half way through.

******
9 November 2014
10
It is reasonable that it is rank in top 5 of best movies . It has a
very good story. This is a worked of Frank Darabont, he also the
director of green mile. For the message that they said is very clearly and good in every parts.
All scenes and characters is very important. It makes emotional to
audience. this movie makes people understand more about the life of
prisoners. Some scene is gonna makes audience cry. this movie also
teaching people such as , patient , Friendship and etc. Moreover, it
looks the realistic in prison. I love the end of the story that show
the another side of Red that he has very important role in prison ,but
he is not important and invaluable in normal life. It shows a part of
life. I love it.

******
8 November 2014
9
I watch this movie because this is in one of my assignments from
university and professor who is teaching about movie told me to watch,
and this is movie is always in top of movie raking. Almost all people
who watched The Shawshank Redemption said this movie is good, and
considered as the best movie all the time, so I watched it.The story is about a man who named Andy Dufresne, a banker is convicted
of murdering his wife and her lover and sentenced to two consecutive
life sentences at the fictional Shawshank State Penitentiary in the
state of Maine. He befriends contraband smuggler Ellis "Red" Redding,
an inmate serving a life sentence. Spend over 20 years of his life in
Shawshank prison and finally he was able to escape from Shawshank
prison.I think this movie is interesting enough that always on top in movie
ranking. I like this kind of drama movie and it is tear jerking story.
Personally I do not like the movie has too much violence, shouting, or
yelling. In the beginning I was bored and do not want to continue to
watch because there was a scene that Hadley and other prison guards
punch and kick until a new prisoner die. Also there are so many scenes
that similar to this scene. Those things are what I do not like. Over
all, I like this movie.

******
7 November 2014
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie involving story about life in
prison that represents through crimes, bribery, sexual harassment, and
drama. This movie was simple but it delivers meaningful messages in all
characters' performance especially in the scene when their eyes
contact. This film contains emotional impact about true friendship and
hope. Brief the plot: Andy, a successful banker, was accused of
murdering his wife and her affair. He was sentenced to Shawshank Prison
for that. Later in prison, Andy helped one of the prison guards to
evade taxes. In return, the prison guard gave Andy and Red, his best
friend in Prison, some cold beer. From this cause, Andy became a
popular guy in the prison and made a lot of friends. After several
years of slowly piercing through the wall using some kind of art
equipment, Andy finally broke out of prison. A couple of years later,
Red was released out of Shawshank Prison. He came to meet Andy at the
beach that Andy told him to meet up when he get released. The highlight
of this movie is when Andy used his specialty in evading taxes to make
the wardens trust him. The biggest surprise for me is when Andy asked
the warden for rope, most of the people who watch will predict that he
will commit suicide but the truth is, he used to it tight things up and
escape from the prison. In conclusion, the acting in this movie is very
good, the storytelling is amazing, exciting and brilliant, and
production is quite simply. This movie is very amazing because it
teaches me that people must always have hope to move on in their life.

******
6 November 2014
10
While maintaining some of the poetic and moving dialogue of the
novella, Darabont also proves that a film's score can generate a great
deal of emotional response from its audience, as dialogue does. He
employs the cunning Thomas Newman, son of the legendary Hollywood
composer, Alfred Newman. Darabont shows recognition for the film's
needs by employing Newman, who makes the gentle piano chords whisper
softly to the viewer, as if a part of the scripted dialogue. Newman
lends himself to individualism and tends to drive more towards the
unique in the realm of score composition. His effort in Shawshank did
not go unnoticed, as his score received an Oscar nomination in 1995.
While unique and independent, Newman's score never once intrudes on
your concentration or distracts from the film.

******
2 November 2014
10
When I first saw this film I wasn't expecting a lot to be honest .
Maybe this was the reason I could enjoy this movie so much , and
additionally I haven't been spoiled or knew anything about it . Every
scene is presented perfectly and it has so many iconic moments enough
for 10 movies . It is deeply emotional It has great actors .
Philosophic thoughts . Everything that a great movies needs.
Recommended to everybody who is interested in watching proper movies
and are not afraid of spending some time on a single movie. Everybody
should have seen it anyways . The ending is just as iconic as every
other scene in this film , enough said if you haven't seen it already
go home and watch it now .I love it <3

******
1 November 2014
10
Shawshank Redemption  Never Give up HopeShawshank Redemption gives an insight into prison life in the 1940's
and how people can become after being there for a long time. This
becomes the life they come to know and they become "institutionalized".
While in prison, life on the outside goes on. We are encouraged to have
hope and to never give up.Shawshank redemption has several major characters that play in it
including but not limited to (real name, character name)Tim Robbins  Andy DufresneMorgan Freeman  Ellis Boyd "Red" ReddingBob Gunton  Warden NortonWilliam Sadler  HeywoodJames Whitmore  Brooks HatlenClancy Brown  Captain HadleyAfter being convicted of killing his wife, Andy Defresne is to serve a
life sentence and was sent to Shawshank Prison to do his time. Andy
remains quiet and tries to keep to himself until he meets Red. Andy and
Red become friends. Red shows Andy the ropes and helps him adjust to
prison life. Red advises Andy to not let his guard down or to let
others see his weaknesses. Andy stays strong and encounters an
unforgettable journey inside Shawshank Prison. Andy dreams big but
wonders if his dreams will ever come true. Andy learns to never give up
hope and to stay strong.Themes of hope and the power of friendship can be seen throughout the
movie. It seems that no matter what Andy is dealt with he keeps
fighting to stay on top and maintain his hope. Although the target of
the "Sisters" Andy never gives up. He remains determined to keep a
positive attitude despite what prison life may sent your way. Shawshank Redemption was filmed in prison. The lighting was low key
while in the prison walls and natural lighting in the prison yard. The
use of lighting made it more convincing of the 1940's. Filming was done
so as to be able to read expressions on the actor's faces and read into
their thoughts. This movie teaches up to never give up hope and that true friendship
will always be there till the end. "Remember Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things and no
good thing ever dies"  Andy Dufrense

******
1 November 2014
10
This movie will change your life! From the soundtrack, to the acting,
to the story line it is amazing all the way through. Morgan Freeman
narrating, it just doesn't get better than that kids. The characters
pull you in and you will be engrossed in the story before you know it.
Tim Robbins has a performance of a lifetime. Honestly, I believe it is
a crying shame that this movie didn't win any Oscars. That is because
it came out the same year as Forrest Gump and people were in awe
because they had never seen anything done like Forrest Gump before.
Don't get me wrong, Tom Hanks is amazing and Forrest Gump was great,
but if you are looking for the true best picture of 1994 grab some
popcorn, and look no further than Shawshank Redemption. If you don't
believe me look at what movie sits on top of the IMDb's Top 250 movies
of all time list year in and year out.

******
1 November 2014
10
I took a course of film criticism and it was a requirement to watch a
film called "The Shawshank Redemption". My first thought was quite
negative because it was an old movie made in 1994. However, after I
watched it yesterday, it was so impressive.The Shawshank Redemption is a story about Andy Dufresne who is a banker
was convicted of murdering his wife so he was caught to the fictional
shaw shank stage. Things that happened in shaw shank were terrible but
he had a friend named "Red" who always supported him. Moreover, he was
a genius person so he did everything he could to make things better. In
fact, every single thing that he has done, he did it in purpose. And
that consequence was over my expectation. What I like most is the story line and the plot was perfect. I really
like how the story has been laid out and it always surprised me. You
cannot guess what will happen next or even why the character does such
things. Furthermore, I really like the main characters; Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman, because their acts were so natural

******
31 October 2014
7
Every time this film comes on the TV I end up watching it all the way
through. Even if it's on till 2am and I have got to be up early for
work I stay up and watch it all the way through. I don't know what it
is about it. Possibly Morgan Freeman voice hypnotising me. Or maybe I
just enjoy it. Saying that though Green Mile does the same thing to me
and Morgan Freemans not in that. I'd say I have seen this film more
time than the name Andy Dufrey is said throughout the film. All in all
a superb film and if you have not seen it yet, i'd like to know how you
haven't with the countless amount of times it's been on the TV. Give it
a watch and fall into the trap I am stuck in. (In a good way)

******
30 October 2014
9
Talk about your school of hard knocks. In The Shawshank Redemption
(Columbia, R), Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), a tall, soft-spoken New
England banker, is convicted-wrong- ly-of killing his adulterous wife
and her lover. It's 1947, and Andy, having received a double life
sentence, is shipped off to Shawshank State Prison in Maine, a
maximum-security fortress packed to the grimy gills with thieves,
rapists, and murderers. How bad is life at Shawshank? So bad that when
Andy trudges off the bus along with a dozen other new inmates, the
veteran prisoners make wagers on who'll be the first to cry. So bad
that Andy finds a huge, wriggly yellow maggot buried in his lunch. So bad that, over the next two years, he is systematically beaten and
raped by the Sisters, a crew of leering renegade inmates who take
special delight in tormenting their fellow prisoners. Make no mistake:
Andy gets worked over-and so does the audience. But then, good things
have a way of happening to unfortunate movie characters. Early in his
stay, Andy makes the acquaintance of Red (Morgan Freeman), a sly
survivor who is serving a life sentence for murder and who acts as
Shawshank's one-man black market, smuggling the prisoners anything they
want-cigarettes, reefer, cards with naked ladies (''I'm a regular Sears
and Roebuck,'' he deadpans). As soon as Andy bonds with Red, things
start to ! look up. He gets hold of a rock hammer so that he can sculpt
an elegant chess set. He does the guards' tax returns in exchange for
perks like beer on a sunbaked afternoon. He expands the dusty,
neglected book room into the most comprehensive prison library in New
England. Set over a period of 20 years (the passing decades are marked by Andy's
pinup posters of Rita Hayworth, then Marilyn, then Raquel), The
Shawshank Redemption begins as a nightmare, a postwar- New England
Midnight Express, but it doesn't take long to reveal its true,
feel-good colors. The movie is about survival, triumph, and a thing
called hope. It's about a hero who rises above the squalor because he's
blessed-a saint in the muck. It's Midnight Express Goes Gump. You need
a certain craftsmanship to traffic in twin brands of manipulation- the
exploitative and the sentimental-and there's no denying that Frank
Darabont, who wrote and directed The Shawshank Redemption (it's based
on a short novel by Stephen King), knows just what he's doing. The
moss-dark, saturated images have a redolent sensuality; you feel as if
you could reach out and touch the prison walls. And Darabont is an
accomplished button pusher. He coaches the actors so that you always
know exactly who to root for and against. When it comes to a character
like the warden (Bob Gunton), all Bible- thumping righteousness, the
movie has no compunction about turning up the hissability factor. He
starts out mean, then turns meaner, then meaner still. When Andy blasts
Mozart's The Marriage of Figaro over loudspeakers to the prison work
field, it becomes a full-scale opera-soothes-the-savage-breast number,
with the prisoners standing open-mouthed at the sublime sounds. The
scene is meant to fire our righteous liberal hearts. It helps, of
course, that most of the prisoners don't actually behave like
criminals. They never say a word about their pasts-even Andy remains a downtrodden
cipher-and this lends the proceedings a hollow, generic feel, as if
Darabont had constructed a blueprint out of old prison melodramas. A
movie like The Shawshank Redemption, with its brazenly mechanical
plotting and its wish-fulfillment finale, requires a lead actor who can
carry us on the wings of his good spirits. Tim Robbins is crafty and
likable when Andy is hoodwinking the guards, and he makes you feel the
character's mute anguish. Yet in shouldering what is essentially a
laconic- good-guy, neo-Gary Cooper role, Robbins never quite makes
emotional contact with the audience. His face, foggy and placid,
suggests an overgrown baby's; there's something naggingly unformed
about him. Morgan Freeman, on the other hand, with his delicate
smolder, his eyes that seem to peer directly into everyone's soul,
makes Red feel genuine, lived-in. Speaking of the prison walls, he
says, ''First you hate 'em. Then you get used to 'em. After long enough, you get so you depend on
'em. That's institutionalized.'' With his gift for rapt pauses, for
caressing just the right syllable, Freeman can make a speech like that
sound like one of the philosophical nuggets of the ages. Then again,
isn't it time Morgan Freeman stopped playing the soulful sidekick?
While we're on the subject of prison walls, an actor as great as he is
shouldn't get too used to movies like this one.

******
26 October 2014
10
Part of that probably comes from the concept of tolerance, hope to
bring freedom. It was answered clearly for Andy who does not make
mistakes But patience to stay inside jail Doing what he loves, offering
hope, goodness and kindness to others. (Proposed channels of tax
evasion for the atrocities against their jailers, like beer,
colleagues, by himself, does not touch alcohol, etc.) say it is my view
that the Andy is in jail without fault. But he did not complain much.
Not revenge Not rampant, but Andy use his intelligence and fortitude to
fight. Finally, the truth and the good that makes this movie is all
about

******
26 October 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie about time, patience and loyalty.
The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison
drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence,
riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason.
The movie is quite unlike most of King's work. The horror here is not
of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that flows from the
realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have unreeled in the
same unchanging daily prison routine. "The Shawshank Redemption" is not
a depressing story, although I may have made it sound that way. There
is a lot of life and humor in it, and warmth in the friendship that
builds up between Andy and Red. There is even excitement and suspense,
although not when we expect it. But mostly the film is an allegory
about holding onto a sense of personal worth, despite everything. If
the film is perhaps a little slow in its middle passages, maybe that is
part of the idea, too, to give us a sense of the leaden passage of
time, before the glory of the final redemption.

******
22 October 2014
8
''Hope is the good thing, maybe the best thing, and no good things ever
dies'', ''I was the honest man out there, I turned crook after coming
to prison'', these are some of the best lines that you come across
while watching 1994's ''Shawshank Redemption''. This English Drama revolves around the character of Andy Dufresne an
innocent banker convicted for murdering his wife and her boyfriend, he
is sent to the Shawshank Jail to spend his rest of life, and there he
finds a friend, Red, who provides him a rock hammer for some indefinite
and unknown reason, the speciality of Andy was that he always kept him
busy with some work, that he often says, ''Get busy living or get busy
dying'', he begin as the financial adviser for the prison guards and
continue to be the shape changer of the prison library, but when he
realizes that some dark things happening in that penitentiary he try to
bring them to light but before he does that he is sent to the solitary
confinement, after his release from that confinement he speaks with Red
about having the hope and tells about his dreams, that where he want to
spend last days of his life and takes the promise from him that if Red
get released from the imprisonment he asked him to meet him again,
after the day of their conversation Andy find missed from his jail and
had escaped through the sewage pipe, but Andy disguise himself in other
name and set free from the clutches of cops along with submitting the
records about the corruption and the inhuman activities that are seen
in Shawshank jail, Red get released after his 40 years of imprisonment
and succeeds in keeping his promise to Andy.This movie is neatly crafted by its maker; each character in the play
gets its own introduction and style of presenting, the portrayal of the
roles like Andy, Red and Brooks are finely shown, Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman are brilliant in their act, that artistic way of
presenting the plot and the dialogues adds extra weightage to the
movie, it's the best made movie.

******
22 October 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption" is adapted by Frank Darabont from the novella
"Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" by Stephen King. There have
been many adaptations of King's works but "The Shawshank Redemption"
outshines them all. Why? Because it is nothing short of outstanding. I
can't speak for everybody, but this is a film that I can watch over and
over again, and love it more each time I watch it. And, while I simply
talked about the ending this entire review, that is not all that makes
this film incredible. However, I will not waste any more of your time
talking about how wonderful this film is. And please do not waste any
of your own time. Find a way to see this movie as ASAP. It will be time
well spent, and you will certainly see it multiple more times.

******
19 October 2014
9
One of the best movie and great performance by Tim and Morgan. Classic
in all aspects. Remains in memory for long time after you have watched.
Every time you watch gives you same level of joy and excitement. This
movie is based on a novel by Stephen King, it gets more exciting
here.Interestingly, it is not King's horror film, rather a good odd
friendship, hope, and freedom with amazing twist and turns. Great films
stir emotions. They have an impact that lasts long beyond the trip to
the cinema. They give you an opportunity to reflect on your life, to
ponder on the moments and they can inspire. It's a story about 2 men,
in prison in the 1940s, 50s and 60s and what happens to them. Simply
but amazing,

******
18 October 2014
10
Can Hollywood, usually creating things for entertainment purposes only,
create art? To create something of this nature, a director must
approach it in a most meticulous manner, due to the delicacy of the
process. Such a daunting task requires an extremely capable artist with
an undeniable managerial capacity and an acutely developed awareness of
each element of art in their films, the most prominent; music, visuals,
script, and acting. These elements, each equally important, must
succeed independently, yet still form a harmonious union, because this
mixture determines the fate of the artist's opus. Though already well
known amongst his colleagues for his notable skills at writing and
directing, Frank Darabont emerges with his feature film directorial
debut, The Shawshank Redemption. Proving himself already a master of
the craft, Darabont managed to create one of the most recognizable
independent releases in the history of Hollywood. The Shawshank
Redemption defines a genre, defies the odds, compels the emotions, and
brings an era of artistically influential films back to Hollywood.The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.By creating the film's firm foundation, the meticulously chiseled
screenplay paved the way for this film's success. Frank Darabont
outdoes himself with the phenomenal adaptation of Stephen King's
equally noteworthy novella, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. In
this novella, King demonstrates that he can break free from the genre
he dominates and still create a marvelous piece of modern literature.
Though the film mirrors the novella in many ways, Darabont illustrates
a focused objective of improving upon the areas where the novella came
up short, resulting in one of the best book to film transitions ever.While maintaining some of the poetic and moving dialog of the novella,
Darabont also proves that a film's score can generate a great deal of
emotional response from its audience, as dialog does. He employs the
cunning Thomas Newman, son of the legendary Hollywood composer, Alfred
Newman. Darabont shows recognition for the film's needs by employing
Newman, who makes the gentle piano chords whisper softly to the viewer,
as if a part of the scripted dialog. Newman lends himself to
individualism and tends to drive more towards the unique in the realm
of score composition. His effort in Shawshank did not go unnoticed, as
his score received an Oscar nomination in 1995. While unique and
independent, Newman's score never once intrudes on your concentration
or distracts from the film.With work from vast array of talented scene designers, costume
designers, composers, cinematographers, and various other Hollywood
artists, the cast of The Shawshank Redemption had a strong foundation
to work with. The marvelous cast of this film will dazzle you with some
of the most convincing performances you will witness in a film. While
both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman shine as Andy and Red,
respectively, the true spectacle of acting lies within the plethora of
amazing supporting actors who easily disappear into their roles. Most
noticeable of these, the veteran film star James Whitmore, who portrays
the elderly Brooks Hatlen. Brooks, a man incarcerated for an
unmentioned crime for so long that he finds himself attached to the
Shawshank and the daily life he has lead. Each of these actors show a
true dedication to their art, and a focused purpose in their
motivations, creating a convincing setting that never once caters to
anything unbelievable.With all of the aesthetic touches and attention to cinematic detail,
the most beautiful part of the film lies within its thematic material,
such as its focus on the human desires for the most abstract concepts,
like hope and freedom. These themes, which concern things the human
spirit undoubtedly yearns for, seem so intricately woven into the plot
that it easily draws its audience in to its story. Though full of
hardened criminals, your heart will go out to these men as they display
the most basic of human emotions, and deliver some of the most quotable
lines in a film to date. Like a great novel, this film manages to
succeed at greater things than simply entertaining an audience.
Darabont tells his story most masterfully, illustrating principles and
inspiring his audience to think. He leaves us a poignant film with a
powerful message of hope, and redemption, something we all seek.Darabont shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and
production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce
art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life
and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-
needed breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of
film. It proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and
still bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.

******
18 October 2014
10
I had a chance to check the list of movie top 250 and this film is on
the top of the list with high ratings.It's about man who got arrest cause convicted of murder his own wife.
He got a life imprison that had change his whole life. He struggles
with living and dealing with new life. He started to adjust himself
with other especially with one who turns out to be his friend.I admire the way that film represents life deeply and give various
dimensions. I saw main character thinking contradict with other. It
does show violence and rude of life but give good thought.In my opinion, after I watched this film. I have no doubt why it's on
the top list. It gives lot of thought and show various dimension of
life.

******
16 October 2014
10
A film that you will never forget There are just too many words to
explain about this film. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins relationship in
the film is a major part of the film as well as surviving shawshank
with everything it has to offer. A must see film and is something you
cannot turn down. From the acting to the directing to it's amazing
story of a man who is accused of murdering his wife and is put into
shawshank prison were he meets red (Morgan Freeman) before getting to
know him he goes through tough times in the cell. Everything about this
film is just unbelievable. Honestly just watch it for sure

******
15 October 2014
9
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
14 October 2014
9
It was a great film, Enjoyed it from start to finish. The Characters
worked great together to make a very convincing and exciting piece. I
have now watched it multiple times and it has always been just as good
if not better with each watch, I have now recommended to many others
who have all had the same reaction. This defiantly deserves top spot on
IMDb. It is a Masterpiece. Found it too long at some points. I hope
that everyone enjoys it as much as I did. This is a great review. Thank
you for your time. I am glad you read my review or didn't its
completely up to you its your life. Have a nice day and hopefully you
do other things with it other than reading interesting reviews from
randoms who are starting to write about random things. Anyway great
film would recommend.

******
14 October 2014
10
Every movie I have ever watched more than once - and i have watched a
lot - has at least one scene that i would either skip or use to go grab
something from the fridge, turn up/down the AC or something. Except The
Shawshank Redemption. From the opening scene till the very end, i want
to do nothing but sit through and watch, feel and react to each part of
the story.Everything in the film fits together in an amazing harmony, engaging
all your senses and emotions from the very beginning. This is my humble
opinion, and I am not surprised to see it on the top of so many lists.A true example and a benchmark to many film makers, from story to
acting, cinematography to editing.

******
13 October 2014
9
This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick. It has a great and
deep message. This movie has a foundation and just kept on being built
on from their and that foundation is hope.Other than just the message of this movie the acting was phenomenal.
Tim Robbins gave one of the greatest performances ever. He was
inspiring, intelligent and most of all positive. His performance just
made me smile. Robbins plays Andy Dufresne who was wrongfully convicted
of murdering his wife and her lover. He is gets to life sentences but
yet never gives up hope. In he becomes friends with Ellis Boyd "Red"
Redding played by Morgan Freeman. Freeman who gives the finest
performance of his career has unlike Robbins lost hope. He is in deep
regret of the crime that he committed. His way of deflecting the pain
away is by trying to not feel anything at all. With his friendship with
Andy he learns that without our hopes and dreams we have nothing. Andy
also becomes friends with the rest of Red's group. James Whitmore also
gave a great performance as Brooks Halten who gets out of prison parole
but in the words of Red he has been "institutionalized". The directing by Frank Darabont was just magnificent. He kept this
movie at a great steady pace along with the writing and great
cinematography. He portrayed prison life in such a horrifying way, but
not in terms of the physical pain but the stress and pain that wares
mentally on the inmates, some of which deserve a second chance.

******
12 October 2014
10
This movie deserves 10/10. And yeah you can can say that there are so
many things that help you cut down its rating as left most cell for
Andy(A hotshot banker on whom this movie is pictured) or Bogs only
dicks with Andy, so what it is still a MOVIE based on novel of Stephan
king. Its just that its an "EPIC MOVIE". The narration by Morgan
freeman is remarkable, it feels like someone is whispering in your
ears, when this movie reaches it mid you starts to adore the relation
between Andy and red. and that night Andy finally redeem himself from
prison, that Rita Haywood poster, that chess board and everything, you
starts to love when detailed by red. this movie also has a cliché in
which Andy makes himself rich which you want to see and how he keeps
his mind occupied and what they think about him. "Some birds are not
meant to be caged, Their feathers are just too bright".

******
8 October 2014
9
Its a classic movie for sure. First I really didn't know what to make
of the movie when the trailer first came out. Just some minutes into
the movie, I found myself loving every bit of it, from the beginning to
the end. It has everything you want in a classic movie. Its funny, sad,
smart. Takes you through all the human emotions at every scene. Really
enjoyed watching this movie. Can watch over and over again. Great cast
with amazing acting. Anyone who appreciates the art of movies will
definitely enjoy and be hooked on this movie. What more can one say
about a very well made movie. It's going down as one of the best movies
ever made for sure. Awesome!!

******
7 October 2014
10
This is the real great film, i vote 10, never see that great film again
in other film. I guest that film maker is genius person, i say that
because the great film have happy ending with the great story, you will
never see that again, have you see other film like this? if you see and
watch please share the name of film. I guest you can give a film like
this. Because this film Im being morgan freeman fans, i always watch
film if the stars contain morgan freeman. i was born in 1994, i'm lucky
in 1994 because this film able to watch, but i can watch this film in
2000. I hope world can make again film with great story and many morale
messagge so that i can learn from that film. I'm waiting for new film
with morale boost. see you.

******
5 October 2014
10
I am 22; And I was craving a well plotted movie the other day. And
quite frankly I was quite bored of fantasy movies. I wanted to watch
something that had to do with the system. I decided to go through the
list of top movies of all times, according to IMDb. The Shawshank
Redemption was ranked number one based on popularity. I watched the
trailer and I immediately fell in love with the fact that it was
narrated by Morgan Freeman and that it was about the prison system in
the previous century. The movie The Shawshank Redemption Is about a
character named Andy Dufresne, an introverted,young,successful banker.
In 1947, one fine morning, Andy finds himself guilty of a crime that he
repeated says he didn't commit. However, the evidence says otherwise.
They charge him for murdering his wife and her lover. Double life
sentence. He soon finds himself in one of the harshest prison in the
country. There he meets Red and his friends. Andy takes his time but
slowly, tactically, befriends them. Andy's wide range of skills helps
him get on good terms with the prison guards, and even the Prison
Warden. The Warden soon finds Andy so useful that he starts making Andy
help him with his bank statements, allowing him to launder money
without any suspicion.Soon Tommy Williams enters the picture, and what
he discloses changes everything. The movie was very well directed.
However, I wish the story focused a little more on how Andy manages to
create a false identity. Overall, the movie was very interesting. I
loved how they portrayed all the inmates and their problems. I very
much appreciated the fact that they didn't show the prison rapes in
details, and left most of it to the imagination. Andy's unreadable
characteristics were very well played by the actor Tim Robbins.
Throughout the whole time, I simply couldn't figure out whether he was
really innocent or not, until Tommy Williams enters the picture. Andy's
and Red's friendship develops very realistically. The little jokes they
share were very amusing, especially the first time they talk, when Andy
asks Red why his name is Red. The villainous Warden's character was
very unpredictable. His "Strict Christian" image was brilliant. It made
it seem that he might have a little bit of goodness inside, but as the
story unveils, he turns out to be pure evil. The movie overall was
intriguing. It does show some real issues that inmates go through-
discrimination, sexual frustration, institutionalization and all forms
of abuse. I think the movie is very eye opening. I think the message it
wants to send out is that one should get to know the system and how it
works so that when the system turns abusive, one can do something about
it.

******
5 October 2014
9
This film really impressed. We can feel the friendship between Red and
Andy. They start from stranger to become a best friend. Even they are
not contact for many years but friendship doesn't gone. I really
surprise in the middle of movie that Andy is innocent, because from the
beginning at movie, the first day in prison. He look not fear in the
prison. In addition, he really intelligence and no one know his plan
for escape the prison. In this movie we see difference between Brooks
and Red, they are out from prison when they get older but they choose
in different way. It like Andy told Red "get busy watching or get busy
dying".

******
5 October 2014
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a Prison tricky film. The prison itself
becomes a metaphor for the society, or even to retard people from being
completely free instead.Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne, an intelligent banker convicted of
killing his wife and her lover is wrongly sent to Shawshank Prison. The
first and best friend that he makes is Red, the elder statesman of the
yard, played by Morgan Freeman, the one that obviously a great actor
who never ever did wrong in his career.At Shawshank, they communicating us about how to survive in here, and
what you need to maintain a stage of humanity, which literally reflect
us about reality of life. The warden, sexually abused by inmates and
even beaten by guards harasses Andy. Sooner or later, Andy gets used to
his new living arrangement which someone called home, but still has
hope that he will leave Shawshank. As well as he try to reminds others
to be hopeful.Shawshank Redemption is not to reform you, but totally drive you crazy.
It's not just a film for entertainment; it's educating us about what
life really is. Even though the film offers us a prison and corruption,
it's definitely warmth my heart and so do you.

******
4 October 2014
10
Stockholm Syndrome (Stockholm syndrome), Stockholm effect, also known
as the Stockholm syndrome or complex known as hostages or hostage
syndrome refers to victims of crime for offenders generate emotion, and
even help turn a complex offender. The emotion caused by the victim
against the perpetrators feel good, dependent on the heart, and even
help the offender. August 23, 1973, two ex-convicts criminals Olsson
and Olofsson, in Stockholm, Sweden, with intent to rob after the city's
largest bank failure, the four bank employees hostage, police and
criminals in a stalemate after 130 hours, because criminals give up and
end. However, this incident took place a few months after, the four
bank employees hostage suffered, still kidnap people reveal their
feelings of compassion, they refused in court charged with the
kidnappers, and even raise legal defense funds for them, they show does
not hate criminals and criminals not only did not express their hurt
them but then they take care of gratitude, and the police took a
hostile attitude. What is more, a female staff member Christian
hostages actually fell in love with the robbers Olsson, and engagement
with him during his imprisonment. This two robbers hostage taking up
six days ago, during which they threatened Shou Fu's life, but
sometimes also exhibit benevolent side. Unexpected changes in mental
intricate under which four hostages ultimately resist government
efforts to rescue them. This incident inspired the social scientists
who want to understand the feelings of kidnappings hijacked between
those with a combination in the end took place in Stockholm bank
robbery this from a fatal exception, or the combination of this emotion
represents a a common psychological reactions. Later, studies show that
since researchers called the "Stockholm Syndrome" event, surprisingly
common. If you meet the following conditions, any person may suffer
from Stockholm syndrome. The first one is to you truly feel your life
is threatened, make you feel, as is not necessarily going to happen.
Then people believe that this violence will do at any time, without
hesitation. The first two, this violence would certainly give you
impose small favors, the most critical condition. As in your case to
give you a variety of despair drink. The first three, in addition to
information and ideas he controlled, and any other information not let
you get completely isolated. The first four, so that you feel no
escape. With under four conditions, people will have Stockholm
syndrome. In a sense, the formation of the Stockholm syndrome, the same
throughout the "institutionalized" at home. "Institutionalization" is
an important concept famous movie "The Shawshank Redemption" (Shawshank
Redemption) deduction. Prisoner old Reid (Morgan Freeman) said of
"institutionalized (institutionalized)": "At first you hate it
(prison), then you get used to it, after enough time you come to rely
on it, this is the system technology. " The film was institutionalized
symbolic figure of old cloth prison librarian, he was imprisoned for 50
years in Shawshank prison under (system), which is almost exhausted his
lifetime time. However, when released from prison when he was informed
that you are going, not only did not full of joy, but faced with
spiritual collapse, because he can not do without the prison. To this
end, the old cloth at a knife to kill, in order to continue to serve
their sentences in prison. He fell in love with that room unforgettable
deprived of his freedom of prison, so after his release, he finally
chose to commit suicide. Old cloth becomes part of the environment,
once out of the original environment, everything loses its meaning. In fact, we are more or less every Chinese person suffering from
Stockholm syndrome, or political education on! Merely reflect more as a
chronic symptom, more seriously, is the "mass Stockholm Syndrome." We all the time is "institutionalized (institutionalized)"!

******
4 October 2014
10
This movie is without a doubt is one of the most brilliant films. It
encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And what is so
great about the movie is that it gives hope in a dark place like prison
there can be love,fun, happiness, kindness and hope...It is a simple
film, yet it has an everlasting message. A classic piece of
unforgettable film-making.Frank Darabont directed only 2 movies and
both of them were amazing. What more can be said about this film? Pulp
Fiction and Forest Gump were released in the same year and I would
still choose this movie over the other 2. Can't believe this movie
didn't take home any Oscar. It's absolutely brilliant and captures the
mind with its simplicity. Hollywood doesn't make them like this
anymore.

******
4 October 2014
10
I am aware that by now almost everyone knows the plot of this film, but
since this is my first reviewed title on IMDb, I'll do my part in
explaining it."The Shawshank Redemption" is based on the Stephen King's short story
"Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption". Set in New England, the
film tells the story of a young banker named Andy Dufresne (played by
Tim Robbins), who is wrongfully convicted of murdering his wife and her
lover. In prison he befriends Ellis Boyd Redding (Morgan Freeman),
nicknamed "Red" by his friends, and his gang. But he also catches the
eyes of "The Sisters", a gang of rapists and bullies led by Bogs (Mark
Rolston). He then must make up his escape plan, while aiding the guards
and most importantly the warden (Bob Gunton) to cheat on their taxes.I was deeply impressed by this film since the first time I watched it,
and has remained my favorite film ever since. All of the main actors
play their parts beautifully (Freeman in particular), and the ending is
the most powerful I have ever seen.A must-see for everyone.

******
2 October 2014
10
This subtitle might sound a little cheesy, but in fact the movie
presents us with a story of having to cope with a harsh reality, and in
the end, managing to move on from it. The Shawshank Redemption always
gives to me the feeling that it is separated between two very different
acts. Although this separation isn't balanced in the runtime, it is, in
a way, the manner in which the film is constructed.At the beginning, we are introduced to Andy Dufresne (Robbins), a man
accused of murdering his wife and her lover. He is sent to Shawshank
Prison for life, and there he meets Red (Freeman), the man who can get
you anything you want. Over the years, Andy will become good friends
with Red, be brutally abused by a group of aggressive homosexuals, and
participate in a series of scams orchestrated by the warden. All the
time Andy spends in incarceration seems like a living hell, thus
setting up the dark, absorbing environment of most of the movie's
runtime. By the time we get to the last part of the film, we see a
pleasant payoff that presents itself in a different tone, one that
while sometimes present in the movie's gritty prison setting, lashes
out fully in the last few scenes.Directed masterfully by Frank Darabont, and with career defining
performances from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, Shawshank lives on as
a cinematic landmark. It's a movie that captures the essence of good
storytelling and lives up to its legacy through that, while also being
a competently made film, with a diverse soundtrack and a beautifully
planned production design.For me, The Shawshank Redemption represents assuming responsibility and
coming to terms with a complicated situation, while also having the
strenght to triumph over adversity. As Andy says, hope is what keeps a
man mentally stable and in my estimation the most powerful feeling in a
movie like this.Rating 10/10

******
2 October 2014
10
I know it is absolutely shocking to you that the #1 movie on IMDb's Top
250 is my (and many, many others') favorite movie. Why, you may ask?
(and I would respond with a quizzical look and say what do you mean
why?) Because it is simply perfection in every facet of the film making
process. The direction is magnificent as Darabont gets wonderful
performances from his entire cast and paced the movie perfectly. It's a
long film, but doesn't feel that way. Darabont of course also gets
credit as the writer, and the writing is masterful. There are so many
memorable lines. The cast is amazing and the performance by Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins are unforgettable. God I love this movie. The end scene makes me shed a tear every time.

******
2 October 2014
10
.....and Ironically, it most certainly does.Bank Merchant Andy Defrene is convicted of the murder of his wife and
her lover, and sentenced to life imprisonment at the titular prison. Life seems to begin to fade, but fortunately Andy befriends some of the
other inmates, in particular a character known only as Red. Over time Andy finds ways to live out life with relative ease as one
can expect in a prison, his body may be locked away in a cell, but his
spirit can never be truly imprisoned.....There is nothing to say about this film that hasn't been said before.
Its awe-inspiring, its warm, and most of all, it gives you an enormous
sense of well being once the credits roll.From the opening shot of the prison, to the iconic Christ like pose in
the rain, the film is chock full of religious allegory, and references
the bible in several key scenes. But the film demands repeat viewings,
because there is so much subliminal imagery and messages in the film.The acting is brilliant, and the warmth between Andy and Red is the
heart of the film, and the chemistry between Freeman and Robbins is
second to none.Its a perfectly crafted film, with effortless narrative, and it will
make you smile and cry in equal measures.Yes, it should have ended when Freeman got on the bus, but nothing is
too perfect is it?

******
1 October 2014
10
This film portrays hope, justice and friendship in the most elegant of
ways; mixed in with the prison life makes for a journey that inspires
many never to give up and remember hope is always an option.The personality of Andy Dufresne mixed with prison life is calming at
times and also simple yet it leaves a feeling of joy and happiness when
time comes, the opposite of the feeling at the start, which would make
anyone doubt the justice of the act.The impact of Morgan Freeman lets us see a more in-depth side to Andy
Dufrense even though they have great differences between them creating
a everlasting friendship.This movie is set apart from others as it shows us the realistic view
of a prison in the 1940/50's and the affect it has on its inhabitants.

******
1 October 2014
10
The Shawshank redemption is an excellent movie that was executed
perfectly. Based off of the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption, the movie did an exceptional job of recreating
the story. The Shawshank Redemption is a top class movie that needs to
be seen by anyone and everyone with the perfect features to make it
stand out in the crowd of movies.The acting in the movie The Shawshank Redemption is one of the main
reasons that the movie turned out to be so wonderful. Combining the
skills of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman proved to be a pair for the
ages. With two characters, one quiet, reserved character and one
popular, outspoken character, both played by actors with similar
personalities. Appreciation was shown for the acting in this movie when
Morgan Freeman was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor in a
Leading Role (Academy Awards 1995). Although he lost, it is still
impressive considering he lost to Tom Hanks in Forrest Gump/ These two
actors were not the only actors vital to the production of this movie.
Each individual side character was played by an actor perfect for the
part. No actor could have done justice to any of the characters like
the actors who starred in the film did.The story of the movie was possibly one of the best told stories of all
time. Although it is a recent story when compared with stories from all
time, it does the perfect job of immersing you in the lives and
feelings of the characters and of keeping you hooked on what happens
next the whole time. Stephen King started off by writing this
masterpiece of a story in his novella and Frank Darabont worked with
this masterpiece and wrote and directed one of the top one hundred
movies of all time (AFI Top 100). The story is told over a just longer
than two hour movie, that does not go on too long or too short. After
the viewer has finished watching the movie, they are perfectly
satisfied.The Shawshank Redemption has a Motion Picture Association of America
rating of R, or restricted. This rating should be lowered too PG-13,
known as Parents Strongly Cautioned. Although the movie does have
slight hints at sexual activity and scenes with murders and suicide,
this does not outweigh the benefit of people seeing this movie. No
person of the age above thirteen, or maybe even lower, should be denied
the right to view this movie. The Shawshank Redemption has the
potential to have an enormous effect on the lives of those who view it.
And even if it does not impact their lives, it still could easily
change their perception of a good movie or just be an enjoyable two
hours of their lives. Without such heavy restrictions on the age of
those who can view the movie, maybe it could have a chance to be more
widely viewed, and ultimately more widely appreciated.The AFI Rating of The Shawshank Redemption shows it ranked as the
number seventy two American movie of the past one hundred years (AFI
Top 100). I strongly disagree with this rating. The Shawshank
Redemption, although it didn't cause any revelations in the movie world
(mostly because it was too recent to have done so), is one of the best
filmed movies of all time. I personally would rate The Shawshank
Redemption in the top ten of all movies, and number one on my own
personal list. The less official Internet Movie Database ranking of
movies has The Shawshank Redemption as the number one movie of all time
(IMDB Top 250). This is a much more agreeable rating for my own opinion
on the movie. Having seen five of the top ten movies on AFI's renowned
list, I do not believe any of them compare to the quality and
entertainment value of The Shawshank Redemption. Although I earlier
agreed with AFI's rating of The Shawshank Redemption in the top one
hundred, I believe it should be much higher than the ranking they
decided on.Overall, the Shawshank Redemption is a movie that will go down in
history as one of the best movies ever created. This future historical
relevance is not an exaggeration. If anything, The Shawshank Redemption
is an underrated movie. It's not too often that there comes a movie
that is as well made as The Shawshank Redemption, so when one is, it is
important to fully appreciate it. The Shawshank Redemption is a grade A
movie made up of the perfect components of story and acting which come
together to make one of the best movies of all time.

******
29 September 2014
8
This movie gets more interest as compared to other movies that its
filmed inside a prison,the movie starts with a scene in which Tim
Robbins (hero) is being convicted with murder of his wife and her
lover,and then movie gradually shows Andy's (Hero) positive behavior
towards the welfare of other prisoners. At a later stage of movie Andy
manages an easy but well planned escape from the jail. The whole movie
describes how other see "Andy". Overall movie was Good because the
movie moves in an orderly way. This movie gets more interest as
compared to other movies that its filmed inside a prison,the movie
starts with a scene in which Tim Robbins (hero) is being convicted with
murder of his wife and her lover,and then movie gradually shows Andy's
(Hero) positive behavior towards the welfare of other prisoners. At a
later stage of movie Andy manages an easy but well planned escape from
the jail. The whole movie describes how other see "Andy". Overall movie
was Good because the movie moves in an orderly way.

******
27 September 2014
10
When I saw this movie for the first time it made a deep impression on
me.The storyline is interesting and the characters are strong.There are some good one liners in the movie what make you remember.It's funny but actually you learn from this movie. Facts that can be
useful in real life.The movie what makes it so good in score from everybody is that almost
everybody recognize in characters and some scenes.The only disappointing in the movie is the end. You want looking more
of the movie, how the story goes further. But this only proves that is
very interesting story.I recommend everybody to see this movie.

******
25 September 2014
10
Personally this film is listed in my top 20 favorite movies of all time
and that is a pretty hard list to get in to. The Director did a
marvelous job with this film, the cinematography is amazing, along with
a talented cast it's a hard one to beat (well Green Mile does but
that's another review)I have read the negative comments and all I can
say to that is (as a film maker myself)well is that not the magic of
cinema? Nothing created for the cinema as fiction is ever real to life
or it wouldn't be called a movie but a documentary but that's my
opinion.I think the story is both captivating and well told on the screen and
it doesn't get the credit it deserves.

******
24 September 2014
8
Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and
eventual redemption through acts of common decency. Andy Dufresne,
played by Tim Robbins, is a young and successful banker whose life
changes drastically when he is convicted and sentenced to life
imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her lover. Set in the
1940's, the film shows how Andy, with the help of his friend Red,
played by Morgan Freeman is the prison entrepreneur, turns out to be a
most unconventional prisoner. The Shawshank Redemption is just a
brilliant, brilliant masterpiece of modern cinema, what makes The
Shawshank Redemption so endearing is that it involves a strong
friendship over a number of years between Andy and Red. It really is a
life-affirming and inspirational film. What can I say that hasn't been
said already about this film? Only that it is the closet to perfection
that a film will ever come. It really is the model and benchmark to
which other films will be compared, nothing will ever surpass it.

******
22 September 2014
10
Nice movie, one of the best that i have ever watched. The effects are
excellent !Nice movie, one of the best that i have ever watched. The
effects are excellent !Nice movie, one of the best that i have ever
watched. The effects are excellent !Nice movie, one of the best that i
have ever watched. The effects are excellent !Nice movie, one of the
best that i have ever watched. The effects are excellent !Nice movie,
one of the best that i have ever watched. The effects are excellent
!Nice movie, one of the best that i have ever watched. The effects are
excellent !Nice movie, one of the best that i have ever watched. The
effects are excellent !Nice movie, one of the best that i have ever
watched. The effects are excellent !

******
22 September 2014
9
Misery and Stand By Me were the best adaptations up until this one, now
you can add Shawshank to that list.This is simply one of the best films ever made and I know I am not the
first to say that and I certainly won't be the last. The standing on
the IMDb is a true barometer of that. #3 as of this date and I'm sure
it could be number 1. So I'll just skip all the normal praise of the
film because we all know how great it is. But let me perhaps add that
what I find so fascinating about Shawshank is that Stephen King wrote
it.King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the
Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his
best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was
brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned
Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes
onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to
understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully.

******
21 September 2014
9
This is not a movie to be watched just for the heck of it. You can't
just stumble upon it as you can when looking for an action or comedy
movie. Not to say that it can't happen, but if you're going to watch
this movie, you have to focus on it and watch it all the way through
within a week. I don't know if it is a good representation of modern
prisons or prisons from the time it takes place, but regardless of
that, you feel for the two protagonists. I found the predicament of
Andy to be completely horrific and unfair (though I wish I could find a
better word to use here than "unfair"). Some people might find the
message of hope to be kind of corny, which is a view that I can
understand but don't share and I'm a guy that finds many things to be
corny. The life of the prisoners is brutal, partly because of the
guards, but partly because of the conduct of the prisoners. Andy is
easy to sympathize with, but also easy to root for because of his
perseverance and hope. I like Morgan Freeman's character, Red, too.
There is an air of dignity that sets him and Andy apart from the other
prisoners. The one rather implausible character point that I found was
Andy's selflessness. His ability to sympathize with his fellow inmates
and his willingness to better their lives does not necessarily do
anything to his desire for the same benefits that they reap. His motive
is certainly to help his fellow inmates, but I don't feel like he would
as a human just let his hard earned rewards be wasted. The one other
main character is the warden, who can either be viewed as a good
heartless villain or a guy that the screenwriters forced a mean
personality onto with no good reason. I'm not saying that either one is
true, it just depends on where you're coming from. I read another
review that criticizes the way the warden's quoting of the bible is
sort of demonized and was a biased act by the producers. Personally, I
disagree with that, because there are plenty of people in real life who
use biblical passages and religious motives as an excuse to do bad
things. One thing about his character that I didn't really understand
was why he is so reluctant to let Andy go free. The story is rather
like that of Mr. Holland's Opus in the sense that it is divided up by
the minor characters that come and go throughout. You can see how Andy
and Red make a difference in the lives of the other inmates and each
other. The mystery of how Andy escapes at the end is pretty good, but
not something that requires you to have remembered a lot of things from
earlier to understand. For anyone considering watching it, I would
recommend that you watch it alone or with someone who won't talk
through it. Also, don't watch it if you're looking for anything outside
of a good or emotional story. Overall Rating: 8.9/10

******
20 September 2014
10
When i saw this movie ,I was so impressed with how every single subplot
was given a great deal of respect and attention from the director.The
opening aerial shots of the prison are a total eye-opener.The final
segment of the movie testifies to the fact that the final resolution of
the story comes about only when Red is faced with the same fearful
situation as Brooks.i think this film is the best story ever told on
film.I love this film.I watch this film 100 times.i will watch this
movie more and more until i die.i also encourage my generation to watch
this movie.Sometimes i share the story of this movie with my
friends.then they watch it and became the fan of this movie.I want to
give some credits to the director.

******
18 September 2014
10
I have forgotten how many times I have seen this outstanding, heart
wrenching film.From start to finish, it has you captured into what life was like for
an innocent man in the harshest prisons in America. The main character
is of all things, a banker. He is framed for the murder of his wife
playing away with another lover behind his back. Next thing you know
the husband lands in prison and fighting to stay alive from all the
inmates and prison officers. Luckily his accountancy profession saves
him and rewards him at the same time. He makes friends with RED and
ends up building up the library to a delux place of relaxation, reading
and music playing for all the prisoners.The ending just blew my mind.You must see this film, but be warned.....it is absolutely addictive
viewing.

******
17 September 2014
10
Movie talk about the people who aspire to harm others the aim of bliss
and the meaning of freedom and the happiness of owned and injustice and
the status of freedom in humans enslaved and was personal Morgan
Freeman in the film was fantastic and I can put them in the best
characters films and Tim Robbins This film was one of the best his
movies and directed wonderful and also used on the Stephen King
dazzling masterpieces. This movie is generally worth appreciation to
all who participated in it and for every dollar paid. actually thanks
(frank Darabont). Yes, that the greatest movie in the history of Global
cinema.

******
16 September 2014
10
This film includes great actors such as Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.I find The Shawshank redemption to be one of the most intelligent
movies of my life time; brilliant and captivating. The story is not for
the faint of heart it shows the courage and resilience that the human
spirit is capable of. Invoking the desperation of all of
us...wondering; in this situation, how would we handle it? This film/
story is definitely one of my favorites from Stephen King's book of
short stories. If you haven't taken the time to watch this you're
missing out. I watch whenever I can and always feel satisfied at the
end. From the music, to the attention to detail with the wardrobe, this
movie is all-around a classic and should be put on your top 10 best
list....today.... There's no way you could regret it.

******
9 September 2014
10
Sometimes, a classic can come from an unexpected source. That's the
case with the Shawshank Redemption. When you only hear about the plot,
you'd guess that it may be very enjoyable, but it's been done before.
The film is about a prison break. That doesn't sound like an original
idea. Shawshank Redemption is based on a Steven King novella named
'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption'. Usually, the film
adaptations of Stephen King's novels aren't very strong. The picture
was directed by Frank Darabont, who didn't have much of a success
record back in 1994. The two leading actors are Tim Robbins, who
portrays Andy Dufresne and Morgan Freeman, who portrays Ellis Boyd
Redding (simply known as 'Red'). While they are both very good actors,
you wouldn't expect them to have a perfect chemistry. The film also
didn't very well in the box office upon its release. So despite all of
that, this film has often been referred to as one of the best films of
all time. I think that's a fair point to make. You don't expect an
all-time classic going into the Shawshank Redemption, but that's
exactly what you're going to get. This films sucks you in and blows you
away.Andy Dufresne is sent to Shawshank prison in 1947 because he murdered
his wife and her lover, or so we believe. He's very introvert at first
and doesn't interact with any of the prisoners. That is, however, until
he asks Red if he could get Rita Hayworth to Shawshank. Red simply
replies that it will take a little while, but he'll manage, since he's
a man who knows how to get things. It eventually turns out to be a
poster of Hayworth. When Red asks Andy why committed the crime he's
been sentenced for, Andy states he's innocent. Of course every other
prisoner in Shawshank state that they are innocent, except for Red, who
tells Andy he's the only guilty man in the prison. Red and Andy develop
a friendship over the years and the chemistry between the two is simply
amazing. Andy befriends most of Red's friends, like Heywood (played by
William Sadler) and the old man named Brooks Hatlen (played by James
Whitmore). Andy's first couple of years in Shawshank are extremely
difficult. The 'sisters' have an eye on him and especially their
leader, Bogs (played by Mark Rolston). They attempt to rape Andy on
several occasions. The prison is run by the corrupted warden named
Samuel Norton (played by Bob Gunton) and his chief of the guards, Byron
Hadley, who brutally assaults prisoners to demonstrate his power. In
May of 1949, Red and his friends are selected to tar the roof of
Shawshank, which keeps them outdoors for a couple of days. Andy
confronts Byron Hadley about his financial issues. This eventually
leads to an improved prison live for Andy and his friends. Andy helps
the prison guards with their financial situation and eventually even
does all of the wardens finances. In 1954, Brooks Hatlen is released
from Shawshank after having stayed there for 50 years. He can't live a
normal live outside of the prison walls and decides to hang himself.
Red clarifies that Brook has become institutionalized. After Bogs and
the 'sisters' nearly beat Andy to death, Byron Hadley assaults Bogs so
so hard he is never able to walk again. Andy continues to control the
wardens finances and explains to Red how all the 'dirty' money is
washed clean. He made up a person on paper, named Randall Stevens, so
all the trails lead to him, but because he's fictional, the I.R.S won't
be able to catch anybody. In 1965, Tommy (played by Gil Bellows)
arrives in Shawshank for a two year sentence. He's a young guy who
loves Rock and Roll. He wants to be educated and Andy starts to teach
him. At one point, Tommy hears Andy's story and reveals that Andy is
innocent. Andy confronts the warden with this statement, but he's
afraid Andy will reveal to the outside world what happens within the
walls of Shawshank, so he puts Andy in isolation for two months. During
his stretch in isolation, Tommy gets killed by Byron Hadley, because he
knew too much, although the warden says he tried to escape. Andy meets
Red after getting out of the isolation cell and tells him about his
future plans, although Red waves it off by stating Andy's being
unrealistic. Andy tells Red to never give up hope. Andy decides he's
been in prison long enough and escapes through a tunnel he dug during
his time in prison. The following day, Andy travels to Zihuatanejo, a
place in Mexico. He leaves with half of Norton's money. The next
morning, Byron Hadley is arrested for being a corrupt guard and the
warden shoots a bullet through his own skull. After serving 40 years,
Red is released from Shawshank. He goes through the same motions as
Brooks did and you get the feeling he'll also hang himself, until he
remembers he made a promise to Andy, so he searches for an old oak tree
near Buxton and finds some money Andy's left for him. He decides to
make the trip to Mexico and rejoices with his old friend Andy, while
stating he finally dares to hope.This is, simply put, the best film ever created. It's incredibly
powerful. The film really sucked me in. The chemistry between Andy and
Red is undeniable and the performances from Robbins and Freeman are
superb. The supportive cast also does a fantastic job. Clancy Brown as
Byron Hadley really looks like a despicable bully and Bob Gunton as
Samuel Norton plays his role as the corrupt warden perfectly. This film
never drags and the remains entertaining for all of its 142 minutes.
Films, in my opinion, don't get any better than the Shawshank
Redemption.

******
9 September 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt one of the most brilliant
movies I have ever seen. Similar to The Green Mile in many respects
(and better than it in almost all of them), these two movies have shown
us that Stephen King is a master not only of horror but also of prose
that shakes the soul and moves the heart. The plot is average, but King
did great things with it in his novella that are only furthered by the
direction, and the acting is so top-rate it's almost scary.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrane, wrongly imprisoned for 20 years for the
murder of his wife. The story focuses on Andy's relationship with "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman, in probably his best role) and his attempts to
escape from Shawshank. Bob Gunton is positively evil and frightening as
Warden Norton, and there are great performances and cameos all around;
the most prominent one being Gil Bellows (late as Billy of Ally McBeal)
as Tommy, a fellow inmate of Andy's who suffers under the iron will of
Norton.If you haven't seen this movie, GO AND RENT IT NOW. You will not be
disappointed. It is positively the best movie of the '90's, and one of
my Top 3 of all time. This movie is a spectacle to move the mind, soul,
and heart. 10/10

******
8 September 2014
9
It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but
"The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because
it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us vicarious
experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and
looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in
the story of men who have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper
than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship
and hope.Interesting that although the hero of the film is the convicted former
banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is never seen from his
point of view. The film's opening scene shows him being given two life
sentences for the murder of his wife and her lover, and then we move,
permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and
particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman). It is his
voice remembering the first time he saw Andy ("looked like a stiff
breeze would blow him over"), and predicting, wrongly, that he wouldn't
make it in prison.

******
7 September 2014
10
One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story
about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than
a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the films people talk
about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a story for freedom.
Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and
Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other.
Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first moment
they make contact with one another. There is also a wonderful
performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.He shines when it is his time to go back into the world, only to find
that the world grew up so fast he never even got a chance to blink.
Stephen King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and
excitement. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking
about in 50 or 100 years.

******
6 September 2014
10
In this Stephen King short story adaption, were amazing. One of the
best prison movies. It is a story about hope and dreams. A friendship
between inmates. Old fashioned movie without being boring. The story is
captivating. Powerful acting. The story is narrated by Morgan Freeman.
That makes the story even more interesting. One of the best movies of
the nineties. "The Shawshank Redemption" will instantly become a
favourite of anyone who watches it. I recommend it to any fan of
Stephen King. And also to any fan of Morgan Freeman. But obviously if
you are a fan, you should have seen it by now, except if you have
missed it. It happens, I don't blame you, you gotta catch up!

******
6 September 2014
10
The Shawshank redemption was and still one of the greatest movies of
the 90's. Not only I watched it at least 30 times in the last year but
I have been fascinated by the message of hope it conveys; I can sit
here and tell you all the great things about this movie but you need to
watch it to understand that there is nothing like it; Academy Award winner Tim Robbins and Morgan freeman clearly did a
wonderful job. If you don't love Shawshank, chances are you're beyond
redemption. The human kindness and cruelty in this movie are beyond
what you can imagine; The director lovingly and patiently sculpts his
large cast of characters against a magnificent scenery.

******
5 September 2014
10
An excellent thriller movie to watch! So many years passed but it is
still a superb movie. Freeman has played an excellent role in the
movie.I wish if this movie had some kind of sequel. The movie is that
much great that if we watch if 100 times we'll still enjoy it. I really
liked the movie because of it's thriller. I liked the movie " Shutter
Island" because it is as thrilling as this one. The part where Andy
gets to know about the killer is the most awesome part of the movie.
The best part after that was the escape through a dirty place,
everything in the movie was fantastic. I do not have the words to
praise this movie. Even 1000 lines are not enough for it.

******
4 September 2014
7
My advice would be to watch this movie in full before you judge it.
Actually, the movie itself is nothing special, but it has some good
stuff. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and
character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do,
however, drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can
accept them. The leads' combined talents and charisma have a lot to do
with this movie's success. I found the acting to be sensational, the
dialogue incredible and the director's abilities to be up to par and
then some. It reminds me of some of those Croatian films that were
popular back in the 1990s. My final rating comes in at seven out of 10
stars.

******
4 September 2014
10
One of the Best movie I have been seen.If you don't love Shaw shank,
chances are you're beyond redemption. This movie is based on a novella
by Stephen King, but don't let that put you off. It's not a horror
film, rather a thumpingly good ode to friendship, hope, wit, wiles and
wisdom, brimming with crackling characters and topped with the most
twisteroo of twists since The Crying Game. Found guilty of killing his
unfaithful wife and her lover in a fit of passion, sullen accountant
Andy Dufresne (Robbins, casting off his goofball image to display more
layers than the proverbial onion) is shipped to the Gothic wind-swept
corridors of the Shawshank State Prison for life. It is here the movie
gracefully unfolds. With a beautifully rounded script, writer/director
Darabont conjures up a spellbinding personal odyssey stretching through
the years from 1946 to 1967.Dufresne, all the while protesting his innocence, slowly overcomes the
hellfire tortures of the prison system - an unblinking range of
beatings, rapings and abject humiliations - while managing to inspire
his fellow inmates to lift their degraded horizons. Among them is Red
(Freeman, in a matchless supporting role), the lifer who can, given
time, provide virtually anything. And for reasons best known to
himself, Dufresne requires 40s starlet Rita Hayworth, provisioned in
poster form.The mood swings rigorously through every emotion as the cranky, wiseguy
and downright crazed array of criminals bare the brunt of the turbulent
life within the doomy Shawshank catacomb. Then it gets really mean,
gearing up for its injury-time shockers. Dufresne, a whiz with figures,
is bullied into running the warden's (Gunton) petty accounting scams,
giving him the chance to execute his and the film's final, greatest
miracle.If you're miserable enough to look for gripes then, yes, it does drift
on too long and who needs prison buggery again? Yet the ending has such
poetic completeness you're too busy contentedly chuckling to worry
about sore behinds. This may have confounded American audiences - it
flopped big-time on planet Yank - but a more divine movie experience
you will not find this side of Oscardom. Spread the word.

******
4 September 2014
10
At first skeptical of this movie had heard spoken of it to be so good
just not what everyone said about Shawnshank Redemption. So I checked
in and as usual when I see the film are the first 10 to 15 minutes not
good Then I do not check the whole movie. but was Hooked after about 10
minutes and thought This is a Awesome movie So clearly the best movie
ever made IT have a great storyline and all but the actors are world
class. When u think off todays stars the old movie stars are The basis
for today's Stars But thats just my Taste. Anyways what i wanna tell u
all is this movie is worth checking out If u have not any idea what u
wanna watch a Rainy day // JP

******
4 September 2014
10
I had to watch the movie for my English class but can i just say it was
one of the best texts we have studied. The whole movie is just
constantly interesting and even if you don't watch the film for the
actors or the writers or the produces, you stay for the story. Because
lets be honest, there is nothing better than a prison break story. The
constant changes in story lines, learning about each characters lives
in and out of the prison walls, the relationships formed and broken,
and the beautifully narrated story is one great film that helped me
really see things from an interesting perspective. All in all, i give
this movie 10/10 because there are many prison movies out there, but
this one takes the cake.

******
3 September 2014
10
This is an awesome movie I have ever seen. The movie is pretty old but,
the old is gold it seems in here. This is sort of prison break but the
way it's been done is terrific. I am not too fond of the Tim Robbins,
still he was really just the center of attraction. I think everyone
should watch the movie, even the young stars as well. In my views the
character Andy Dufresne was a perfect manipulator and planner, and a
good friend as well. I mostly liked the chemistry between Freeman and
Tim, the way Tim left some stuffs for freeman, might be needed for to
go forward. And after a long time how a prisoner has become habituated
with loo permission.The evens were not surprising, but the way it was reflected was
tremendous. I admire this movie and all-time favorite, I watched it for
almost 40 times, still fell like watching once again.

******
2 September 2014
10
I'm shocking what a true genuine movie is that. Every time you see this
movie! You feel like it fresh. Awesome movie I ever watch in my entire
life....itself a testament to overcoming odds. It is sentimental and
stereotyped, yet we are able not only to suspend our disbelief but to
root for it all the way.It's an old-school melodrama at heart, sturdy
and forthright and upstanding, but without a whisper of complexity or
wit. I have not read Stephen King's novella (his first non-horror), but
some of the movie's deficiencies, such as the old-fashioned morality
tale and portentous message and redemption--must have been in the
source material.An amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made
during the 90s and definitely one of the top 'prison' movies of all-
time. Pretty much everything about this movie works and works extremely
well!It may deserve to be generally regarded as (one of) the most
overrated film(s) ever made, but it is above all a wonderful, uplifting
and deeply touching tale of hope and perseverance that certainly
deserves to be remembered as one of the best adaptations of a Stephen
King story. Before we can critically assess The Shawshank Redemption,
we first have to deal with The Shawshank Reputation. In addition to its
Oscar nominations and huge critical acclaim, the film has topped the
IMDb Top 250 for years and shows no signs of dropping off any time
soon. Any attempt to criticism it could come across

******
1 September 2014
10
From the moment I first watched this film, it became a favorite. There
is a lot of drama, action, and compassion in this film. By the end, you
feel yourself caring for the entire cast. Morgan Freeman is at his best
in this film, and I have to say the same for Tim Robbins as well. James
Whitmore stole my heart from the second he walked on the screen. It is
a bit long, but the story moves at a great pace and you don't realize
how long it is until you seethe clock. If you haven't seen this movie, you should. You will love it. Stephen
King is a brilliant writer and Frank Darabont's screenplay does King
justice. It is truly a must-see! It does not disappoint in any way.

******
30 August 2014
10
if your looking for a really moving deep story line. with much
discovery of the human life and journey to over coming obstacles and
much of what fine filming is all about. this is your ticket to
Shawshank Redemtion. i highly recommend this to all those of Morgan
freeman lovers. and as well prison stories. this moving will get you
moving in places you never thought of. and keeps you thinking to the
very end. and how as humans what do you have to do to fit in life. from
my overall experience watching this film. all the emotions and right
hit points that deliver this masterful work piece of art. it really
defines movie making and turning points of life. i only wish that more
film can at least get as close to this now a days. hope that you find
everything your into looking for in this film. like i did, and took
from it and made an enjoyment out of it. =]

******
30 August 2014
10
This movie is truly a work of art.. The script, the Plot and the roles
played by the characters are simply perfect. Even the slightest scenes
are carefully overlooked by the Director. All together they form an
amazing movie about friendship,loyalty and the true power of the human
mind and with the appearance of Morgan Freeman which is a living Icon
in the movie business, he puts all his effort and dedication to the
completion and the perfection of this movie even with his narrative
speech in the beginning.. Finally, Shawshank Redemption deserves it's
place on the no 1 all times movies simply because it has all the
necessary things to be remembered.

******
30 August 2014
10
most reviews measure up up to the book,,,, but this movie is better
than the book....... it is the cast you see that does itI did read the book after reading the book.... and found a tighter
story..... I will watch it anytime it's os on,,,,, I do have a greater
understanding of the story ........ THIS is a great movie,,,,,, if you
can watch 1 movie...is is one of the top 100. even the top 50 for all,
who want to tell, a story that is a template to use........hope is a
thing.... that nobody can estimate and,,, no one can judge.....
stories,,,,,everybody is innocent....

******
27 August 2014
10
i have seen this movie at least 5 times and i have enjoyed it equally
every single time!the story is really interesting and doesn't lose its red line and as a
watcher you are connected to the movie. the story is like realistic (i
hope you get what i mean) like it could happen in our or maybe it has
already.however this movie was really enjoyable and also i loved the music. we
could talk endless about the music and how good it was so i will leave
it there.i watch a lot of films and since you are here in IMDb means also that
you watch a lot of films by yourself but this movie is nothing like we
see these days. some people (i know them) don't like or watch a movie
because people talk so much about, weird huh, i know. watch this movie
and you will not regret it!

******
26 August 2014
8
An amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and
definitely one of the top "prison" movies of all-time. Pretty much
everything about this movie works and works extremely well! The film
touches upon many subjects, including the ideas of hope, redemption,
love, loneliness, justice, life/death, friendship, endurance, fear,
patience, inspiration and so much more.Watching this movie always makes me feel a million times better, and if
that's not the greatest reason to watch a film, I don't know what is.
Give it up to both Freeman and Robbins for completely engulfing their
characters with heart, soul and the spirit of humanity. I appreciated
the message in this film, I absolutely loved the way it ended, I
surrendered to its pace, I enjoyed all of its characters, I thought it
was wonderfully photographed, I loved the score and I could seriously
watch this movie 10 times a year and not bat an eyelash the whole way
through.Love it, watch it, get your own motivation from it and surrender to its
spirit which gives anyone in the world hope to do whatever they dream
to do in life. It's like I quoted back at the top of this review, you
better "get busy living, or get busy dying". It don't get more black
and white than that. Your choice.A true cinematic inspiration.

******
26 August 2014
10
Of course it is the best film ever.And maybe Back to the future. I
really do not suppose to blame this movie. It is a masterpiece. Tim
Robins and Morgan Freeman are acting incredibly well in this film.I I
should really criticize this movie , I would rather say no , because
the directing , the shooting and the montages of this work together
build up a Donatello masterpiece, and I haven't said anything about the
soundtrack. It is amazing also. The prison scenes are farewell. Rather
say yes, than no. So, that's the matter , why a single attendant behave
like this during the picture of this film. I do not have to grind a
false face. It is the truth, it is a real masterpiece!

******
26 August 2014
9
One of the best movies of all time. The acting in incredible, the story
is captivating and engaging, and every actor comes through in a big
way. A truly wonderful movie. If you have not seen it, you will not be
disappointed when you do. The story, chiefly about the 20-year
friendship between Freeman and Robbins. Andy Dufresne (Robbins) is
sentenced to two consecutive life terms in Maine's Shawshank prison for
the murders of his wife and her lover. Set in the 1940's, the film
shows how Andy learns to get by in the brutal confines of prison, even
earning the respect of his fellow inmates, most notably the longtime
convict "Red" Redding (Freeman)

******
25 August 2014
10
Greatest movie ever made, sounds like a cliché but it is true this
time. If you are figuring out what to watch between this and the
godfather (because that's what the top 250 said) then choose this one!
It has elements in it that we can all relate to or inspire to and
elements in which we can all escape to through another world we don't
know about. I chose this film as my first review as i thought it was
worth my while so take the hint please! If you like sci-fi fantasy be
prepared to not be amazed in this area but i would say it is a fantasy
through the eyes of Red (Morgan Freeman's character) because he does go
on a bit about how he has never seen someone like Andy (Tim Robbins)
before. If Morgan Freeman thinks he's cool then he is cool therefore
this film is cool end of.

******
25 August 2014
10
One of the finest movies ever made. Nothing unnecessary for commercial
value is added, sticked to the story. A genius story, excellent actors.
The movie is in narrative style by Morgan Freeman. The story revolves
around Andy a banker who has been arrested for murdering his wife. The
story unfolds as Andy's behavior is distinctly different from other
jail members. His wit and cunning nature keeps the audience keen to
make his next move. the twists were not included for the sake of it. It
is meant to be. Watch it, if by any chance you haven't yet. One of the
finest English film of all time. Plot details have been avoided in the
review just to avoid spoilers, its just too good.

******
25 August 2014
10
Movie is really a masterpiece. I had already watched it many times and
i am going watch again many times in future.An amazing movie. Easily
one of the best movies made during the 90's and definitely one of the
top 'prison' movies of all-time. Pretty much everything about this
movie works and works extremely well! A simple story that touches the
bottom of the heart. The concept of this movie is the best and unique.
No Action ,Fight ,Drama ,Romance. Just a sober bond of emotions. The
work done by Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman deserves a great
applause.Watching these actors work together is a real treat, and they
more than make up for the script's deficiencies. No Oscar is bad luck
of this movie but 16 awards is what it deserves.Powerful, poignant,
thought- provoking and finally irresistibly uplifting. At end i would
recommend everyone to watch this movie once.

******
24 August 2014
10
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
23 August 2014
8
I was jaded in my bed after a long boring day walking around with my
great-aunt and I didn't know what to do. I was literally exhausted but
I wanted to perk myself up with something awe- inspiring for boosting
my spent brain. I decided to type in Google "The best movie ever" and
then appeared the Top 250 from IMBDb, the world's most popular source
for movies and TV shows. The first one was called "The Shawshank
Redemption" by Frank Darabond, and I started to watch it without
stopping even a second. It was a movie about an imprisoned man
searching for freedom, "That's exactly what I need tonight" I said to
myself. As the movie was moving forward, I became more disappointed, maybe
because of my bad mood and my great expectations about the movie. I was
watching THE movie, not merely another one to pass the time. What was
happening? Asking myself this question I realized that it was my fault
and I decided to watch the movie through a different lens and have a
positive attitude. From then on, everything changed, my blindness
disappeared and the film met my expectations: It perked me up and gave
me goosebumps. In the final scene, I was crying like a child, I felt a
little foolish. Every aspect of Shawshank fit together. The story is incredibly well
narrated, it keeps you interested throughout the film, it provides all
the information you need to follow along, and is completely believable,
even Andy is a kind of genius and has to put in practice astonishing
ideas for escape from the prison. Analyzing the back-story, it was a
high budget film and I'm sure it is the masterpiece of Frank Darabont
and Tim Robbins (at least). The characters are played well, seemed like
real people and I especially love Andy's one, I will never forget the
sarcastic smile of Tim Robbins withdrawing money from his false
account. Film prop and costumes are useful and fits the mood, and
musical score by Thomas Newman helps move the movie along. Regarding
the filming techniques, the use of long takes, close ups, and slow
zooms toward the characters make the story intimate enough to affect
the audience. Finally, in relation to its pacing and organization I
think the film flows well, not too short or too long. On the other hand, if you ask me for the weak points of the movie, I
could point out the Tommy storyline. We already know Andy is innocent
and we know also how corrupt the system is. What's the point of that? My overall verdict: 8/10. A great movie, but not the best movie ever by
far.

******
22 August 2014
10
An amazing movie. One of the best movies made during the 90s and
definitely one of the top 'prison' movies of all-time...Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman at their best. A true classic. If you haven't seen it, I
recommend you go watch it as soon as possible!After being convicted of murdering his wife, something he denies, smart
and banker Andy Duffrain (Tim Robbins) is sent to Shawshank prison,
which is run by a corrupt warden (Bob Gunton). He makes friends with
some of the inmates but his closest relationship is with Red (Morgan
Freeman) a wise lifer who is a you want it, he can get sort of guy.
After many years there, and after the last straw from the warden, Andy
does something that will be remembered throughout the history of
Shawshank prison. The lot of this film is equally incredible with story
and characters, we love whats going on the entire film because every
moment is important to the ending of the film, and the characters of
the movie are just perfection, Andy and Red as best friends is probably
the greatest friendship I have ever seen a film and that makes it
impossible to dislike them and how colorful and fun the supporting
characters are, what an incredible and beautiful movie that shows the
horrors of prison. The cast is just incredible, Tim Robbins plays his
most memorable and best performance of his career if you ask me, and
Morgan Freeman has also his greatest role to date and truly deserved
his Oscar as much as everyone else that year, they were just
incredible.

******
22 August 2014
10
First of all sorry for my not perfect English, it's not my native
language.In my opinion "The Shawshank Redemption" is one of the best movies
which I seen so far! Twenty years ago this movie was a "low-key prison"
film that didn't get back its costs. But now it has become one of the
most popular movies of all time! Everything is amazing there: actors
play, shooting scenes, the story itself of course... I already have
seen it more than 10 times and I believe that I definitely will do it
again once more!This is first movie and the only one which I rated with 10 stars!

******
21 August 2014
9
I've always enjoyed a good prison series/film, but this one exceeded
all others! My favorite part of the film was definitely when the main
actor made an alliance with Morgan freeman! Such great chemistry there,
there were also some tense moments. It is not one of them films which I
can easily watch over and over simply because it is such a long film
and because it takes a while to forget the plot, and if you have
already watched it, the build up to seeing the main actor escape the
prison is no longer a tense surprising moment.So clever and the casting
was perfect! I think the film sells itself! In perspective i would rate
this film 10/10 for everything, even with the age of the film (1994) it
will always be a "one to watch" film for generations to come.

******
20 August 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is in my mind undeniably the greatest movie
ever made. This film breaks down the essence of human existence,
embodies the human condition, and shows that when knocked down there is
always hope. Just as Andy said "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of
things, and no good thing ever dies". That is what this film is it is
not just a prison film it is not just a redemption story it is truly a
lesson. This film is a masterpiece only a few films in existence come
remotely close to this movie but none can compare.I would recommend this film to everyone because what you get out of it
is all based on your beliefs but everyone can agree that this is a
masterpiece that should endure throughout the ages.

******
19 August 2014
10
It is very rare that you will ever come across a movie of this calibre
in your entire life. Masterpiece is the only way to describe it.From the moment it starts, you're hooked. You learn of Andy and being
sent to prison. The acting is phenomenal, and of course, the viewer is
treated with narration from Morgan Freeman throughout the movie.After that, you get to know each character well, all excellently
written and diverse. The script is highly intelligent, and the dialogue
flows in a smooth and believable way.You find yourself gripped for EVERY second as Andy's perfect plan
unfolds, into a tremendous climax, leaving you emotional as you have
seen his struggle.If anyone considers themselves a movie fan, then they not only should
have seen this film; they should own it.One of the best!!

******
19 August 2014
10
When I started watching the movie, I thought: This is going to be
another one of those movies drama in prison, where the guy suffers and
escapes and lives happily forever. Just waiting there. Not so. The film
reaches the spiritual side of things. Shows how this affects people
psychologically. Having cut his freedom is yes, one of the worst things
in the world, even when there is no fault. But when you get used to the
place, the rules, what is inside you, it becomes your place, your
truth. And then you go out. Now what? How do I live? I do not know no
more walking on the street! This can really drive someone insane.
Another important point is the issue of corruption in jail. Not that
common place fell to be the focus of this thing. Was already
structured, it was not something that needed to be nor explained.
Corruption in the chain is already so common to us, which is not
something that needs 20 minutes of film to explain how it works -
despite the great scene in the library where Andy pro account as Red in
Shawshank laundering scheme works.

******
17 August 2014
10
The story of a man struggling to survive in one of the most hostile
environments possibly know by any human being took my breath away. He
did not deserve to be there, he was innocent from the beginning, but
instead of claiming his innocence, he worked from day one to find a way
to scape from all that. He never quit fighting. A lesson to us all. The
plots are amazingly driven. The characters arc is strong and
understandable from begging to end. Photography is captivating. Acting
is precise, and reach the soul of the subtext all the way. The director
really knew how to pull together an award winning team. Every aspect of
the script is taken care of. The producers went the distance in this
one. A masterclass in acting, directing, photography, production but
most important, scriptwriting. Thou I did not read the book, I guess
the film did justice to it. I'm sure Steven King feels really proud of
it. A must see to everyone who loves good films, or pretends to break
into the film industry.

******
16 August 2014
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and
directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
It is ranked #1 in IMDb's "Top 250" list and is considered one of the
best movies of all time -Says WikipediaParents need to know that this movie is rated R for a reason: The
gritty world of Shawshank Prison is populated with sadistic guards, a
corrupt warden, and predatory fellow inmates. Two characters have sex
(their clothes are on, and it's not graphic), one lovable character
hangs himself, guards shoot an inmate and frame it as an escape
attempt, inmates attempt and, we are told, succeed in raping Andy, and
guards beat and kill an inmate in the opening scenes. But the film also
shows inmates forming a loving community of friendship and support
despite oppressive conditions.Must watch movie.before u die !!

******
16 August 2014
10
The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.By creating the film's firm foundation, the meticulously chiseled
screenplay paved the way for this film's success. Frank Darabont
outdoes himself with the phenomenal adaptation of Stephen King's
equally noteworthy novella, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. In
this novella, King demonstrates that he can break free from the genre
he dominates and still create a marvelous piece of modern literature.
Though the film mirrors the novella in many ways, Darabont illustrates
a focused objective of improving upon the areas where the novella came
up short, resulting in one of the best book to film transitions ever.While maintaining some of the poetic and moving dialogue of the
novella, Darabont also proves that a film's score can generate a great
deal of emotional response from its audience, as dialogue does. He
employs the cunning Thomas Newman, son of the legendary Hollywood
composer, Alfred Newman. Darabont shows recognition for the film's
needs by employing Newman, who makes the gentle piano chords whisper
softly to the viewer, as if a part of the scripted dialogue. Newman
lends himself to individualism and tends to drive more towards the
unique in the realm of score composition. His effort in Shawshank did
not go unnoticed, as his score received an Oscar nomination in 1995.
While unique and independent, Newman's score never once intrudes on
your concentration or distracts from the film.With work from vast array of talented scene designers, costume
designers, composers, cinematographers, and various other Hollywood
artists, the cast of The Shawshank Redemption had a strong foundation
to work with. The marvelous cast of this film will dazzle you with some
of the most convincing performances you will witness in a film. While
both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman shine as Andy and Red,
respectively, the true spectacle of acting lies within the plethora of
amazing supporting actors who easily disappear into their roles. Most
noticeable of these, the veteran film star James Whitmore, who portrays
the elderly Brooks Hatlen. Brooks, a man incarcerated for an
unmentioned crime for so long that he finds himself attached to the
Shawshank and the daily life he has lead. Each of these actors show a
true dedication to their art, and a focused purpose in their
motivations, creating a convincing setting that never once caters to
anything unbelievable.

******
15 August 2014
9
I don't think Shawshank is perfect. To be honest I don't even think it
deserves the #1 at the IMDb Top 250. The thing about it is that you can't point anything wrong, there is
nothing that anybody would really dislike. The highest note is somewhat
odd though, it would not make my own top 10, despite of all the
compliments I could make about it.There are a few memorable quotes, the always great Morgan Freeman, but
nothing that i would call outstanding. A good movie, definitely worth
watching, but not one of those you would watch over and over again
until you got all dialogues by heart.

******
15 August 2014
10
Good and Old Movies IMO still watching . 1 of the best some movies ever
i can see , and the actor to most of them are my favor it , excellent ,
but maybe good is to make renew this movies ? low , with a good image
or anything elsethis will be good for everyoneGood and Old Movies IMO still watching . 1 of the best some movies ever
i can see , and the actor to most of them are my favor it , excellent ,
but maybe good is to make renew this movies ? low , with a good image
or anything elseGood and Old Movies IMO still watching . 1 of the best some movies ever
i can see , and the actor to most of them are my favor it , excellent ,
but maybe good is to make renew this movies ? low , with a good image
or anything elseGood and Old Movies IMO still watching . 1 of the best some movies ever
i can see , and the actor to most of them are my favor it , excellent ,
but maybe good is to make renew this movies ? low , with a good image
or anything elseGood and Old Movies IMO still watching . 1 of the best some movies ever
i can see , and the actor to most of them are my favor it , excellent ,
but maybe good is to make renew this movies ? low , with a good image
or anything else

******
15 August 2014
10
This is one of those rare films that is flawless! no matter how hard i
try i cant seem to find anything wrong with it. it has a great script,
great acting, and a feel good tone to it. Morgan freeman and Tim
Robbins are great this film is a must see! This is truly one of the
greatest films ever made! i highly recommend it to everyone! It also
has pretty good cinematography and it feels real. You get lost in the
story and it feels like you are apart of the story! This definitely
deserved all of the awards that it received. Even though it has a long
running time it still manages to run smoothly without any dull moments.
Bravo!

******
15 August 2014
9
The Expendables film series continues with this third entry featuring
everyone's favorite aging mercenaries, this time directed by Red Hill's
Patrick Hughes The Expendables film series continues with this third
entry featuring everyone's favorite aging mercenaries, this time
directed by Red Hill's Patrick Hughes The Expendables film series
continues with this third entry featuring everyone's favorite aging
mercenaries, this time directed by Red Hill's Patrick Hughes The
Expendables film series continues with this third entry featuring
everyone's favorite aging mercenaries, this time directed by Red Hill's
Patrick Hughes The Expendables film series continues with this third
entry featuring everyone's favorite aging mercenaries, this time
directed by Red Hill's Patrick Hughes

******
15 August 2014
10
Everything has been said about this movie ...so many reviews,but if you
are reading my review then trust me on this..there is no movie been
made in any language,country or in this planet which can match this
masterpiece ..this is a simple movie ..nothing special about it..2 main
characters talking for 2.30 hours ..then why everyone giving it a 10??
just go and watch it to understand that this is beyond a just called
movie it's an experience of a lifetime..Every second you spend to watch
it will be more then worth..everything you will experience while
watching it will stay with you for your lifetime..everything you knew
about class movies will be re-written by this ..it might turn out to be
a life changing piece of work for you..A MOVIE U MUST SEE BEFORE YOU
DIE.

******
15 August 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a great movie. Morgan Freeman did a really
good job on acting.... i love it. I was really learning some things in
this movie. I like Morgan Freeman films because he is really a good
actor. I recommend you this film to watch at least once, because this
is a legendary film.I love it when in the end he founds the box with
this letter. And then he travels to this place where his friend Andy
was repairing the boat. I really enjoyed watching this legendary film.
And also this film was made by a true story so it really makes it very
very very very very very very good. I hope they will make good films in
the future too inspired by a true stories.

******
13 August 2014
8
One of the best performances of Morgan Freeman and probably the best
one for Tim Robbins. I never get tired of watching it again and again.
This story, keeps you aware the entire duration of the movie, and the
soundtrack, one of my favorites composed by Thomas Newman gives the
tale even more grandeur. It's an impeccable direction from Frank
Darabont, as he did on The Green Mile. Also it might make you
reconsider some aspects of your life and to value more your time. The
photography, costume, art direction, all of them are astonishing which
deserved many more prizes and recognitions than it received. It's
definitely one the best films made on the 90's and it's a piece of art
int the film history. Nowadays I wish and I hope in Hollywood were made
such great films as The Shawshank Redemption, but it seems lack of new
ideas and making remakes every year. In my humble opinion, what
Hollywood needs it's an entire REBOOT, not only with screenwriters but
in direction and production.

******
12 August 2014
10
I watched this movie about five years ago. I am right now 21 and i love
to watch movies especially new ones. My favorite genre is Action,
Thriller and Comedy but this drama was one of the best movies that i
have watched in the last five years. So if you didn't watch this one
make sure you do it! Amazing story, fantastic actors (Freeman) my
favorite one. Injustice and the real life are represented in this film.
My advice to sit back grab some popcorn and watch it in the night, the
better the effect. By the end you do not know what's going to happen,
exciting and interesting. It is well recorded, and my opinion is that
deserves a clear 10. Cheers!

******
11 August 2014
10
After all this years,I have been watched so many movies,but no one can
compare with this greatest movie in the world in my mind!The god father
is great too,but honestly,I prefect this movie to others,because the
movie show us to keep on doing something what is right,and no can't
stop you,first time I watched this movie,I was shocked,what kind of man
like that,knew how to find out the other road for freedom in his own
way,even takes long long time to get what he wanted,this is what I
learn from it,no matter how hard it is on my road,there is one way to
go through it,and get what you want!never get old,fellows,you have
dream,you go get it,even take you years and years to get it,and after
that,you feel young forever!

******
10 August 2014
10
There are times when I want to reminisce the great movies I have
watched, to satisfy my pride of being a good movie watcher. This is
when some would want to segregate the greatest of movies into great
movies and great movies you would remember till the end of time. The
Shawshank Redemption falls in the latter category. This movie is so
inspiring that it lifts your morale no matter how beaten up in your
life at that point of time. It is must watch for anyone who wants to
cal himself Homo Sapiens. The awe-striking fact about this movie is that it didn't win The
Academy Awards for Best Picture. This is a testimony to the great
dilemma the jury of the 67th Academy Awards must have been. Comparing
some of the greatest movies ever made like The Shawshank Redemption,
Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction, etc. must have been a hell of a job. But
even then this movie is truly a wonder by Frank Darabont, one which
will always end up in the debate for the greatest movie ever made by
mankind. And to me this is a bigger award than the Academy Awards.

******
8 August 2014
10
I love movies ... cool .... if I may suggestion ... its a lot of the
funny movie, I love movies ... cool .... if I may suggestion ... its a
lot of the funny movie, I love movies ... cool .... if I may suggestion
... its a lot of the funny movie, I love movies ... cool .... if I may
suggestion ... its a lot of the funny movie, I love movies ... cool
.... if I may suggestion ... its a lot of the funny movie, I love
movies ... cool .... if I may suggestion ... its a lot of the funny
movie,I love movies ... cool .... if I may suggestion ... its a lot of
the funny movie, I love movies ... cool .... if I may suggestion ...
its a lot of the funny movie,I love movies ... cool .... if I may
suggestion ... its a lot of the funny movie, I love movies ... cool
.... if I may suggestion ... its a lot of the funny movie

******
8 August 2014
9
This movie is still on the top of the 250 . that's the only reason. you
should watch it,except it's a great story and a great casting. the line
"REMEMBER HOPE IS GOOD THING" really a touching line after all.. i just
love the concept of it. in case you haven't watched the PRISON
BREAK.this movie will make you fall in love with. all of the suspense
in the movie was spectacular obviously. it's shows the friendship
between the two people were definitely a bond of H2o unable to break.
for the new viewer like me i didn't like the printing of the movie or
maybe it's was my digital copy effect. but i think in 1994 the camera
were not so good like today so. i will say that watching 2 hours were
not wasted, it's all good and not boring too.

******
7 August 2014
10
the best movie ever the idea of Two imprisoned men bond over a number
of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common
decency is brilliant. the acting is amazing and very realistic and
directing genius either imaging has chosen photographer places and
wonderful sights to reflect the credibility of the film. It's great in
the movie he was persuaded trick the viewer completely and until the
end of the film did not expect one of what happened. And lead them the
message that the film is a wonderful idea and try and insist to reach
the target in addition to the importance of freedom and how wonderful
Come. The trick placebo bank account they are wonderful and reflect the
extent of intelligent writer and director. It's great in the film that
he also describes the lives of the prisoners in that period, and the
extent of the injustice of the law in that period.

******
5 August 2014
10
When I've seen this movie, I had just one movie with a 10-rating and
didn't believe this could beat it (in my opinion). However, when the
credits started, I knew why this is on the top: People have large
expectations on "The Shawshank Redemption" and also their all-time
favourite movies, but it seems it can touch nearly every person deeply.
I really love this masterpiece from the beginning to the end, but I
don't think it's perfect, the beginning is a little bit too violent and
mostly I don't like erotic scenes (because it seems like the movie
wants a cheap upgrade). This is just nitpicking and doesn't change the
fantastic atmosphere, characters, soundtracks, story and all the deep
messages behind it.10/10

******
5 August 2014
10
Misery and Stand By Me were the best adaptations up until this one, now
you can add Shawshank to that list.This is simply one of the best films ever made and I know I am not the
first to say that and I certainly won't be the last. The standing on
the IMDb is a true barometer of that. #3 as of this date and I'm sure
it could be number 1. So I'll just skip all the normal praise of the
film because we all know how great it is. But let me perhaps add that
what I find so fascinating about Shawshank is that Stephen King wrote
it.King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the
Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his
best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was
brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned
Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes
onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to
understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully.

******
3 August 2014
10
This is a film about people and the choices they make, the choices that
are made for them. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman take the viewer on a
roller coaster of emotions ride attempting to help the viewer
understand their world, a prison world. It is made pretty clear early
on that their world and our world are very different from one another
but due to exquisite writing and equally exquisite acting we (the
viewer) get to see the horrors of Shawshank prison, and even thought
everyone is guilty (to one extent or another) you can't help but feel a
certain kinship with the two main actors and to even some of their less
companions. I read the Novella on which this movie was based and the
movie is every bit as good and the book which is a testament to Frank
Darabont's directing and screen writing abilities. The film is about
Corruption abuse of power the human spirit, redemption and humanity and
there is a reason it is # 1 on IMDb's top 250 list. it is well
conceived, well written, well acted and well paced, it is the kind of
film that even when you have seen it a dozen time and it is late, when
you stumble upon it while channel surfing you still can not help but
stop and watch it till the end credits, it is just a fantastic film
from start to finish.

******
3 August 2014
10
This has to be for me one of the best feel good and most inspiration
movies ever. I have to agree that this is a movie that one should own
not borrow or rent. If I ever had to say to someone watch this movie this would easily be
the one.There are so many reasons for loving this amazingly good movie, but one
for me is the life lessons that we learn from this one. I'm not one of
those people that likes to give things away. So I wont be using any
examples.The cast is great and story is probably one of the best when it comes
to movies.

******
3 August 2014
10
This is one of those movies which you remember forever. You remember
the feeling that you had after watching it. Simply the best movie I
have ever seen, great acting, great directing and great writing makes
it the best movie there is. Truly deserves to be on the top as the #1
ranked movie on IMDb.Not only the lead actors have performed well but also the rest of the
cast, everyone has given their best performance. The story keeps you
attached till the end. And when you see the end you get a great
feeling, you feel from the inside that this was something really good.And the direction is amazing and some of the scenes are so beautiful to
see and the island really looks like a heavenly place.

******
2 August 2014
10
Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a man who has never struck a
false note in his career, both narrates this tale and anchors it with
his authoritative playing. Anyone who read the Stephen King novel knows
red turns from a white guy to a black one. and the guard casually
ripping the poster at the end is different but other than those small
changes, everything else is on point. This is the best prison movie
ever made in my opinion. Certain ironies play out very well in this
film. For instance the head sister who get cripple when Andy has had
enough of his ilk. A 'life-affirming' tale about life imprisonment, The
Shawshank Redemption is the kind of old-fashioned entertainment that is
easily overvalued in an era of diminishing expectations.

******
2 August 2014
10
It is clearly one of the best movie I've seen. It's a shame that it
didn't win the Oscar for the best picture or best director. Direction,
screenplay,acting everything was brilliant.Tim Robbins was simply
outstanding in every aspects. And there was Morgan Freeman. I am a huge
fan of him. This duo made this movie excellent, of course along with
the director Frank Darabont. The plot evolves around two imprisoned men
Andy Dufresne(Tim Robbins) and Red(Morgan Freeman). The former was
imprisoned for murdering his wife and her lover. With the time goes on
Andy helps his friends and become a popular figure.But the director
kept the best part of the movie at the end.

******
2 August 2014
10
I dunno, I'm a 90's baby (born in 1990) and I loved this movie. It just
has so much going for it. Great and well fleshed out characters, the
soundtrack, the story telling itself, just everything to me is
fantastic. I guess it's just one of those things that just feels
organic for some and not so much for others. Don't delve too much into
WHY you didn't like the movie as much as others did, just accept that
the movie just didn't have the same impact to you as it did to others,
because I don't think this is one of those movies you can really
explain.I feel the same way about The Big Lebowski. So many people name it as
one of the greatest comedies of all time, and I just think it's meh...*puts up flame retardant shield*

******
1 August 2014
10
This was an intricately woven tale of an innocent man. He would be our
modern day Joseph if you will. What makes it so unusual is that he is a
white collar tax accountant that ultimately has to use his knowledge to
keep him alive and in a safer position than with the regular population
of the prison. The characters and scenes are carefully crafted to
horrify and titillate the audience. His wife the victim whom this
entire debauched attempt at justice centers, is eliminated, early on as
she is caught in an unfortunate love triangle whilst her husband is
hard at work providing for her needs. He is then incarcerated for the
crime and the action continues to build in one tragic incident to the
next until he meets a true friend behind bars. The Sisters are
treacherous. The Warden and Captain of the Guard maniacs. The prisoners
are utterly lost, uneducated, and misused. There are many victims in
this somewhat heroic tale. Had this man never been framed the light of
reason would have never illuminated the conditions of prisons. They
probably would have been overlooked perhaps another 20 or 30 years. He
was the voice of reason that so eloquently told his tale of astonishing
misfortune in the first person.

******
1 August 2014
10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
30 July 2014
10
Truly one of the greatest films of all time, TSR is an unbelievable
film, that shows with hard work and passion, even first time directors
should be taken seriously. I absolutely love Morgan Freemans character,
and I love Tim Robbin; in fact the entire cast is awesome! Not a single
frame of film was wasted in this picture. Every frame has a meaning and
some sort of emotion to it... I don't think there will ever be another
movie quite like it... I can tell it took yrs of planning an d scrutiny
and Im sure wasn't easy to do. I love Frank Darabont, and it seems
anything he touches in it's first iteration, turns to gold... sad what
happened with The Walking Dead, but this truly is a masterpiece.

******
27 July 2014
10
Andy is wrongly accused of murdering his wife and is charged with two
life sentences. While he gets in prison, he meets his best friend, Red
and the whole movie is about Andy trying to escape and never losing
hope (SPOILER ALERT- he eventually does make it out). This is a movie
that I felt was perfect in almost every way. Morgan Freeman is one of
my favorite actors and The Shawshank Redemption is definitely my
favorite movie of his. Maybe my favorite thing about The Shawshank
Redemption is the ending. Red is walking down the beach and he sees his
best friend Andy after all these years and they're both free. A great
ending.

******
27 July 2014
9
This is (just like Shutter Island) one of the best movies I've ever saw
in my whole life. This film is really long, but it doesn't matter, for
me it wasn't long enough! :) I really liked the whole story, from the
beginning till the very end. It is a pretty sad movie at some points,
but at the end it's actually a 'feel-good' movie. After watching this
you realize how happy you have to be because you are a free man. Some
people spend they're whole life in prison, and that's pretty sick.
Because yeah, you life only 1 time, and now I really know how lucky I
am. This movie is now number 1 for a very long time, that means 1
thing: you definitely need to watch this, you can't die without
watching this movie! You won't regret it :). It is pretty funny to see
Morgan Freeman acting in his younger years, then you realize how old
this movie actually is. Time flies by, and that's actually one of the
lessons you learn from this movie.

******
27 July 2014
10
Truly one of the best movies I've ever seen, might actually be the
best! Everything is good about it, the acting, the story, the setting,
the characters! Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this
movie, you will not regret it, I'm pretty sure nobody did regret it!
It's not a complex movie by all means, it has a simple story, no
special effects, but, maybe, the fact that it doesn't have hundreds of
special effects truly helps it in feeling real. The harsh life in
prison, the fact that he's just a simple man, and doesn't have
connections in there, keeps you on your toes and thinking that
Shawshank will be this inmate's grave. Stop reading so many reviews,
and go ahead and watch it!

******
26 July 2014
10
This movie is brilliant in every way... It will always hold a spot in
my heart and mind. This movie will outlast any action thriller...sorry
J.J.. The music is breathtaking.Such longing... truly talented composer... The actors are great.The look and feel and smell and taste, touch... It is all great, pulls
you in and you feel like your really there. This movie makes me wish I
lived in that time. Besides the rape, being in that prison looks like
so much fun. such a simple time. I even love the cloths. It all feels
so real. I wish I could live in that era. I am not a great writer, but this movie is and will impact my life
forever. Jordan Daniel Brackett

******
26 July 2014
9
I've watched this movie for the first time like 20 years ago (when i
was a little boy), but recently friend of mine wanted to watch it
again, so we did. Nowadays movies are full of clichés and remakes of
old good movies, but compared to this one they are like crap. Tons of
money are wasted on 3D effects, sound and other 'extras', but the
movies are bad. They are no new stories... only the same old stories -
vampires, aliens, fast cars, war and the drama... so much dramas... why
would we want watch some dramas? Ain't we living our own dramas every
day? This is a masterpiece movie and i regret that no one make such
good movies anymore!

******
26 June 2014
10
The Shawshank redemption is about a man who is wrongly accused of
murdering his wife and her lover and sentenced to life in prison. In
prison the man makes friends with the inmates while improving the
prison's library. He also gives financial advice to the prison security
guards and personnel. The theme of this film, The Shawshank Redemption,
is about finding friendship and having hope while being at a hard time
in your life. Andy Dufresne is play by Tim Robbins and is the main
character who is accused of murdering his wife and her lover in a
jealous rage. Morgan Freeman also plays a huge part in this film as
Ellis "Red" Boyd. Ellis or Red as he preferred to be called in the film
is Andy's best friend in prison. There are five main plot points in my
opinion within this film. These points include when the inmates are
betting on the new arrivals, when some of the inmates are re-tarring
the roof on one of the buildings, when new library books finally arrive
after all of Andy's attempts, and when the warden of Shawshank
discovers that Andy has escaped. This films theme is similar to the
retelling of the mythical story of "Perseus" by author Edith Hamilton.
There are several techniques that were used throughout this film but a
few really caught my attention. The first technique is a motif, this is
the repeated showing of the crow that Brooks rescued and raised. The
birds represent a hopefulness of freedom but it also represented the
loss of hope after prison. When Brooks is released, he also sets "Jake"
the crow free and continues to look for him in a park nearby hoping
that he will return to him. However, when Jake does not return it
represents the loss of hope in Brooks for life after prison. Another
technique that attributed to the emotions of the film was the lighting
aspects. In the scene after Andy escapes where he is standing in water
while it is raining with his arms spread wide, the light is directed
down on him with his back in the shadows. This lighting technique in
this scene adds to the feeling of triumph, of hope and of freedom. This
film absolutely reflects the feeling of hope onto the viewers.

******
22 June 2014
9
Robbins kills as does Freeman. Amazing supporting cast. Everything is
flawless from the camera work to the editing. Some might say that the
side stories and other occasional story slowdowns drain it a bit but in
my opinion these elements really only serve to better the buildup for
what is maybe the greatest ending of a film ever. The location the film
was shot in is also perfect and really adds to just how fun this movie
is to watch. I wouldn't dare to tempt anyone with spoilers but if you
haven't seen this movie then you are really missing a huge moment. Not
just in cinema history. But also in terms of appreciating life. And
freedom.

******
20 June 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the finest, most interesting films
ever made; without a doubt. It's the highest-rated film on IMDb and I
can honestly see why. It deserves it very much. 9.3 is something! It's incredible and interesting, with remarkable directing, extremely
great and actually inspiring dialogue and acting, great scenes and so
much more and beyond. It's absolutely inexplicable, it cannot be done
by words, to describe how astonishing this masterpiece of a film is -
it really took filmmaking a step further, beyond shadows and light -
and as crazy as it sounds, it's the genuine true. I don't know why I waited this long to write an extremely positive
review on The Shawshank Redemption. There aren't many films that top
this one, in particular. It really is an A+ film and achievement.
Filmmaking at its absolute finest. Truly. The Shawshank Redemption is definitely a list-topper and usually always
comes in amongst the top 10 best films ever made; i wonder
why.......haha, of course i don't - it's very understandable. I rate the Shawshank Redemption 10/10 - and it deserves that rating, as
it's that good. Genius-filmmaking; genius everything! Outstanding.

******
19 June 2014
9
A tale that inspires and the emotions that never expires.. The story
catches all our imaginations pertaining the character, as the story
goes on it gets more deeper with good dialogues and well written,well
delivered characters.. The actors have done the best job to bring out
the emotions and making the movie more pleasing. watching it we get
more attached to the characters. And more moved and inspired too..It
lives up to its high rank and provides pure entertainment with honest
approach.. A well scripted,well handled and well made one..A drama that
keeps us into the story till the end of the Movie.. A perfect work from
the director and the artists.A MUST WATCH FOR ALL...

******
19 June 2014
10
What a film. How can I accreted describe something that I have watched
over and over so many times? I watched this film with my parents as a
young adult and loved it and now as I watch it 10 years later I find
more things within the movie that speak to me. Lovely work here. The
acting is impeccable and the story is compelling. This movie is like an
onion, in that it has so many different layers and is so complex and
yet, it is simple. I appreciate that AMC plays this movie frequently on
their channel because it allows the masses of people who have cable
television access to at least part of this film. Thank you for your
contribution. It is truly a masterpiece that will transcend time.

******
18 June 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a film of great passion and gritty script.I
love the entire detail structure of the movie.Almost the entire film is
shot at the prison, adding to the feeling of isolation and routine.The
simple yet hard to convey messages could not be handled more subtly
than this.I have almost watched it more than 20 times. The Bond between the characters played by Morgan Freeman (Red) & Tim
Robbins (Andy Dufresne) feels fabulous when you finishes the
film.Script and Dialogues are top notch. Frank Darabont directs with
genius and masterfully transcending the script and gives something
definitively spectacular. Hope is so powerful that it can make great
things happen.Just go for it ...

******
17 June 2014
10
One of the best movie in the world! To say, do not ever give up and
there is always hope, however bleak the situation is. I'm very sorry
that did not receive an Oscar, he really deserved, but it is what not
alter the substance of. Everyone should see this item! Be exemplary for
all people, so that they may live. Everyone is busy with their own
problems, while not even know how you got bigger problems in the world.
This movie shows that you should never rush to decide about it! You can
always look at the man, he will stick with the story. Exposed to the
director and the actors to do for all, we have seen excellent forming.As a final word: Do not give up, there is always hope!

******
17 June 2014
10
I first saw this movie on TV and quickly it captured me somehow. The
next day I searched the entire city for a shop to buy this movie and
watch it on DVD. I must say, when I watched it first, I felt like...
this has to be the best movies of all times. I think I cam compare it
with Schindler's list but somehow this is better. Now let's talk about
the movie. This is movie is really dramatic in a way, but it motivates
you somehow, the main character gives you that power to live more
better your days, when you see him struggling in that crazy prison. As
everyone, the main character needs a friend, to get over the worst
thing in prison, and he gets Red (M. Freeman) who remains his buddy
until the end. The movie also show us how a prisoner gets so used to
the prison life, that after he can get out... he doesn't know what to
do with his life anymore. After you see Shawshank Prison, you are
thinking about life in another perspective... and after that, you fell
like seeing this movie again... and again! Great movie, and 10 stars
from me, maybe the only one with this grade.

******
15 June 2014
10
every single person in this planet wants to be entertained some way or
the other, what we want in a movie is something that we think about in
real life but we don't count on it. This movie has been a source of
entertainment, inspiration and hope in my life. I love when i start to
think after watching a movie, and believe me, i've thought for every
single step that i have taken ever since i watched this movie. it
really is an awesome movie..u might wonder what it is to have what it takes to get the best in
life. when is it that we don't have anything to fear about and when do
we become ourselves. when does our heart start believing in us. the
answer is in the movie. u might wonder if i took this movie rather
seriously but no, i didn't take it seriously, i watched it just like a
regular person trying to eradicate some stress and have a little fun,
but the best part is i got more. I learned a lots of stuff from this
movie.Alright, this is supposed to be a review, not entirely what i feel, so
as a whole from a point of view where we all wonder what exactly we
want in our lives, or what is the most important thing in life. this
movie gives an answer we cant refuse.

******
15 June 2014
10
Since the first time I watched Shawshank Redemption it has remained the
best film I have ever watched, and it's one which I can return to time
and time again. I now own it on Blu-ray and I can honestly say the
price you pay is so worth it for how much enjoyment this film will give
you, and how many times you'll want to watch it again. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are by far two of the best actors out
there and I can think of no others who would be better to play the
characters of this film. There are many great films but none top this
one, you only have to look at the IMDb rating to see this. If you
haven't watched it there is no other film I would recommend more.

******
14 June 2014
10
This movie got full marks from me. I found the story to be a great
balance between the development of friendship and trust between Freeman
and Robbins while showing the brutality and violence of prison life.Acting was superb from all main characters. When I can watch familiar
actors in a movie and believe who they are, I mean fully buy into who
they are portraying and lose myself in the story, that gets good marks
from me. The story is a simple one but how it is told in this film makes it a
best. Watching how these two men managed to come together as friends
while existing in a place where you trust nobody was beautifully told
with patience and finesse.I watched this many years ago when it first came out and I just
re-watched once again...it has stood the test of time with a top rating
from me. Strikes a chord!

******
13 June 2014
10
One of the best movies I've ever seen, if not really the best. That
"Angel's Prison" name in Romanian, I agree with it. It has marked my
summer vacation last year, I thought about it very much, and how an
innocent man can be punished for what he didn't do. I also liked his
perseverance, and how he never gave up his ambition to become a free
man, legally or not. The sad part was Brook's death, but I understood
his decision and agreed with it. I also very much liked the way that
Andy and Red bonded over the time Andy spent in prison, and the things
he had done for the men in prison, like the library, and the courses he
taught, and how he refused to give up his position, that moment when he
played the music. A true "Must See" movie.

******
11 June 2014
10
It's a pretty long movie of almost 3 hours of which 2.5 hours you shall
simply be awed.How can a prison life based movie be this amazing? There
is almost no action , no prison breaking(thats the 1st thing that comes
to our mind when he hear about prison movies,is'not it?), no shitty
scenes just pure drama at its best.You will cry at some moments and
smile at some.Most of all ,from my experience of watching over a 1000
movies this is 1 of the very few movie which which could give a
brilliant storyline to a good beginning.So watch this movie if you
don't want to miss something brilliant in your life.Be a part of
history.Thanks for reading!

******
10 June 2014
10
One of the greatest movie ever I first doubt to watched it I didn't
know how good it is then one day i played it and then after I watched
it I realize that this is the best movie ever , Its a really good movie
and it has a unbelievable story , and u never can guess what will
happen in the end of the movie , that what i like in a movie , That I
never could guess how this movie will end . Andy is a genius He's mind
is brilliant and How he get in to jail , That what I love about this
movie and he's stories in prison every thing that happens to him in
prison is so interesting that make u want to see this movie many times
, and the really good thing in this movie is that beautiful and clever
plan of Andy . At first u r looking at a simple guy who owns a bank but
at the end you are looking at a genius who is owns a great mind .

******
9 June 2014
10
If you're in the mood for a good movie based on a true story that takes
place during a seemingly simpler time and played by really great
actors, then this movie is a good choice. A man wrongly accused of
murdering his wife is sent to prison where he meets his new life long
best friend, Red. It is the type of movie that pulls you in close so
that you can't help but to like these "criminals". It's not often that
any movie good or bad has a good ending. This movie has a very good
ending and leaves you with the answers you were looking for. You laugh,
cry (or at least feel like you might),get mad and cheer for the good
guys and the mild mannered sarcasm. A man who never should have been in
prison in the first place ended up making it a much better place,
exposed tax scam, educated others, provided tax advice, made life long
friends, developed allies and THEN receives his redemption. It's a
battle of wits, showing of strength and endurance of pain (emotional &
physical) throughout the movie. I have never met anyone who hasn't
absolutely loved this movie.

******
9 June 2014
9
A film about patience and resilience. Everything in life with
determination and planning can be done. Good script and good fluidity.
Justice is not always done ... but there will always be a way out. Tim
Robins and Morgan freeman show good chemistry. The story is
verisimilitude, without being too fanciful. Certainly good public
acceptance, it is no wonder that it is the first on IMDb. Got good
reviews. It's an optimistic film that shows us the good side of
perseverance and calm. Nothing's desperation to end well ... as good
conquers evil ... if it is strong enough for this. Although slight, for
a film of prison, known to be strong when needed. Excellent movie.

******
8 June 2014
6
i watched 10 times but i think they was should recording outside of
jail maybe one of the people had a family asking about him or some
visitors to jail.. that's will give the movie more reality and when he
got out why he did not go to the real killer of her wife? and he had so
smart but why he did not tell his friend about run out of jail at last
and why he did not marry another woman after he got out? and the man
who hang his self how his name still in the roof? and how the black man
found his friend name in the roof? how the put him in the same room ?
the movie is SO AWESOME but not enough for me im sorry i don't mean any
thing about the actors

******
8 June 2014
10
The character Andy have so much influence on me that I wanted to pack
my bag to Zihuatanejo and play chess with him... I hope the pacific
should be blue for me as well."Fear can hold you prisoner, hope can set you free" that's god damn
right. Stephen King's words were so powerful that it exactly replicates
the strength of the human mind. Not a man with normal head can create
such a master piece. Frank Darabont was no less to Stephen King, he
exactly created the character with few directorial touches.The narration was so adorable that the entire movie was well executed
by Andy's Colleague. The best words were the final few from Andy "Hope
is a good thing, may be the best of things and no good thing ever dies
....." If you truly admire human spirit, I bet you will produce some
chemical changes in your body.... I cannot say anything about Andy,
well he is far beyond my imagination.Well I can write for months about this movie but its not a essay
writing, just a review, so I'm stopping now. I hope this movie will be
screened in big screens again and I will get chance to watch it in big
screen

******
8 June 2014
10
I saw this movie in 2006 wen I was in college...midnight I was watching
this movie... Before this movie I might have seen 100s of movies but
never a movie this powerful. A story about Hope, Friendship,
Redemption. This movie goes deep into u...it touches Ur soul and u feel
real freedom. I always make it a point to watch this movie once or
twice a year... It keeps me motivated. Morgan freeman, Tim Robbins and
every other character are class. Even after a century this movie will
always remember for its acting and will always be a real Hollywood gem.
There are so many scenes in the movie one can relate to. Even with no
Oscar this movie is worth more than a y Oscar winner. We all are Red
searching for people like Andy to get our Redemption!

******
2 June 2014
10
I sat down at my home and watched this film with my father the other
day and I was expecting greatness. However, what I received was near
perfection. Everything from the cinematography to plot was spectacular.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman shine as the leading roles of this
classic. The story of Andy's struggle with corruption and Red's words
of wisdom to Andy along the way make the movie quite the beautiful
tale. It's a shame that this Stephen King adaptation couldn't have won
the academy award for best picture in 1994. It was just a tough year
for movies. If you haven't seen this film yet I implore you to put it
at the top of your must watch list.

******
2 June 2014
10
I have never seen such a film, the story is undoubtedly one of the best
ever seen, it's just evil with a mixture of thriller and action ...
This leads us away leaves room for our imagination , the development of
our common sense ... It's just a philosophical bunch of crap , so bad
that I almost vomit , you dare call it a masterpiece ? Let me laugh ,
it's just a mixture of children's stories , never seen before ... I was
reading some reviews and there by chance I came across this film, they
say he had an Oscar and all the trimmings . Excuse my subjectivity ,
but I could not stand this movie , I was bored so I stopped watching in
the middle ... How could you look at this epic fail ? This is just to
die laughing. I want to say that I found the game player shabby and
staging is worse ... The director deserves banishment for life of art
to have released such a MASTERPIECE ! Thank you , thank you everyone ,
I love you <3

******
2 June 2014
10
The movie Shawshank Redemption is based on a novel from Stephan King.
The movie is directed by Frank Darabont (1994) and it is one of the
best movies ever made. The movie is not only a depressing story but it
contains friendship, loyalty, hope and wisdom. Andy (Tim Robbins) is
convicted for the murder of his wife and his lover. he is sent to
Shawshank prison. He has a life long sentence and in his time in prison
Andy becomes friends with Red (Morgan Freeman). Andy tries to adapt to
the life in prison and does this together with his friend Red. Through
time Andy overcomes the tortures of prison, and he tries to inspire
other prisoners ("While the body may be locked away in a cell, the
spirit can never be truly imprisoned). The movie shows the
determination of Andy and leads us into a world of imagination, filled
with courage and desire. The setting of the movie is extremely
realistic and the establishing shot immediately shows the setting of
the movie, so you know what to expect. I personally think Shawshank
Redemption is the best film ever made. It has already been a number one
movie on IMDb for a while now. The costumes, the make-up and acting are
done extremely well and the story is very well thought through. To
conclude, the movie has many inspiring messages in it, such as "never
give up" and "always have hope to achieve what you want" for example.

******
2 June 2014
10
It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but
"The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because
it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us vicarious
experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and
looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in
the story of men who have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper
than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship
and hope.From Andy's arrival on the prison bus to the film's end, we see only
how others see him - Red, who becomes his best friend, Brooks the old
librarian, the corrupt Warden Norton, guards and prisoners. Red is our
surrogate. He's the one we identify with, and the redemption, when it
comes, is Red's. We've been shown by Andy's example that you have to
keep true to yourself, not lose hope, bide your time, set a quiet
example and look for your chance. "I guess it comes down to a simple
choice, really," he tells Red. "Get busy living' or get busy dying'."
The key to the film's structure, I think, is that it's not about its
hero, but about our relationship with him - our curiosity, our pity,
our admiration. If Andy had been the heroic center, bravely enduring,
the film would have been conventional, and less mysterious. But we
wonder about this guy. Did he really kill those two people? Why does he
keep so much to himself? Why can he amble through the prison yard like
a free man on a stroll, when everyone else plods or sidles? People like
excitement at the movies, and titles that provide it do well.There wasn't much going for it: It had a terrible title, it was a
"prison drama" and women don't like those, it contained almost no
action, it starred actors who were respected but not big stars, and it
was long at 142 minutes. Polls and rentals reflect popularity but don't
explain why people value "Shawshank" so fervently. Maybe it plays more
like a spiritual experience than a movie. It does have entertaining
payoff moments (as when the guards from another prison, wearing their
baseball uniforms, line up to have Andy do their taxes). But much of
the movie involves quiet, solitude, and philosophical discussions about
life. The moments of violence (as when Andy is sexually assaulted) are
seen objectively, not exploited.The movie avoids lingering on Andy's suffering; after beatings, he's
seen in medium and long shot, tactfully. The camera doesn't focus on
Andy's wounds or bruises, but, like his fellow prisoners, gives him his
space.The Morgan Freeman character is carrier of the film's spiritual arc. We
see him at three parole hearings, after 20, 30 and 40 years. The first
hearing involves storytelling trickery; the film has opened with Andy's
sentencing, and then we see a parole board, and expect it's about to
listen to Andy's appeal. But, no, that's when we first see Red. In his
first appeal he tries to convince the board he's been rehabilitated. In
the second, he just goes through the motions.There's an underlying problem. Behind bars, Red is king. He's the
prison fixer, able to get you a pack of cigarettes, a little rock pick
or a Rita Hayworth poster. On the outside, he has no status or
identity. We've already seen what happened to the old librarian (James
Whitmore), lonely and adrift in freedom.Frank Darabont wrote and directed the film, basing it on a story by
Stephen King. His film grants itself a leisure that most films are
afraid to risk. The movie is as deliberate, considered and thoughtful
as Freeman's narration. There's a feeling in Hollywood that audiences
have short attention spans and must be assaulted with fresh novelties.Tim Robbins makes Andy a man of few words, quietly spoken. He doesn't
get real worked up. He is his own man, capable of keeping his head down
for years and then indulging in a grand gesture, as when he plays an
aria from Mozart's "The Marriage of Figaro." (The overhead shot of the
prisoners in the yard, spellbound by the music, is one of the film's
epiphanies.) Because he does not volunteer himself, reach out to us or
overplay his feelings, he becomes more fascinating: It is often better
to wonder what a character is thinking than to know.Darabont constructs the film to observe the story, not to punch it up
or upstage it. Upstaging, in fact, is unknown in this film; the actors
are content to stay within their roles, the story moves in an orderly
way, and the film itself reflects the slow passage of the decades.
"When they put you in that cell," Red says, "when those bars slam home,
that's when you know it's for real. Old life blown away in the blink of
an eye. Nothing left but all the time in the world to think about it."
Watching the film again, I admired it even more than the first time I
saw it. Affection for good films often grows with familiarity, as it
does with music. Some have said life is a prison, we are Red, Andy is
our redeemer. All good art is about something deeper than it admits.

******
31 May 2014
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty
-- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the
subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving
life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off
despair.t is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but
"The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because
it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us vicarious
experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and
looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in
the story of men who have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper
than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship
and hope.

******
30 May 2014
10
Nice Direction, perfect Storyline, fantastic acting by all.The plot and the characters played were interesting all to the end of
the movie.Loved the end fantastically written, and is the best part of the movie.I believe this movies deserves to watched again and again and again.The cast is first rate with everyone giving a great performance. Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy
Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley
respectively. And James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate
Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every actor at least one
or more memorable lines through out the film. As well as a very
surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me out of my chair.
If you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet
you'll want to see this one more than once.

******
29 May 2014
10
This movie has everything the story lines are just so unique and
unpredictable yet so easy to follow, i have seen this movie many times
and no matter where i start it from i know exactly what has happened
and what is happening it is just so simple. the casting couldn't be any
more perfect and freeman's character RED is the best, but the truth is
all the cast have don't a great job at bringing the characters to life
and the production and directing of this movie is second to non if i
had to recommend any movie to anyone this would be it the whole thing
just oozes perfection. there is little wonder why it has made its way
despite its age to the top of the IMDb top movies list and there is no
mistaking its brilliance the writers have done a amazing job there is
little words to describe the movie except perfection. this movie gets
10 out of ten from me every time and i mean every time i see it it
amazes me on how brilliant the movie is.

******
29 May 2014
10
*** This review may contain spoilers ***The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt one of the most brilliant
movies I have ever seen. Similar to The Green Mile in many respects
(and better than it in almost all of them), these two movies have shown
us that Stephen King is a master not only of horror but also of prose
that shakes the soul and moves the heart. The plot is average, but King
did great things with it in his novella that are only furthered by the
direction, and the acting is so top-rate it's almost scary.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrane, wrongly imprisoned for 20 years for the
murder of his wife. The story focuses on Andy's relationship with "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman, in probably his best role) and his attempts to
escape from Shawshank. Bob Gunton is positively evil and frightening as
Warden Norton, and there are great performances and cameos all around;
the most prominent one being Gil Bellows (late as Billy of Ally McBeal)
as Tommy, a fellow inmate of Andy's who suffers under the iron will of
Norton.If you haven't seen this movie, GO AND RENT IT NOW. You will not be
disappointed. It is positively the best movie of the '90's, and one of
my Top 3 of all time. This movie is a spectacle to move the mind, soul,
and heart. 10/10

******
28 May 2014
10
the best story and best actors very nice thinking i can't stop watching
it i like the way they thinking and how to be simple person with a very
perfect thinking how to make every one think that you are very weak but
you are very strong person and very smart person and how to be able to
protect yourself how to be able to serve everyone and make everyone
serving you how to make friends from your enemies this the best thing
and the best of the best the he escaped from the prison it's perfect
and the way he got the money after he killed his wife he became free
again and how to make everyone your friend it's one of the best movies
i have ever seen in my life it's perfect it takes you to another world
it takes you inside the movie.

******
27 May 2014
10
Parents need to know that this movie is rated R for a reason: The
gritty world of Shawshank Prison is populated with sadistic guards, a
corrupt warden, and predatory fellow inmates. Two characters have sex
(their clothes are on, and it's not graphic), one lovable character
hangs himself, guards shoot an inmate and frame it as an escape
attempt, inmates attempt and, we are told, succeed in raping Andy, and
guards beat and kill an inmate in the opening scenes. But the film also
shows inmates forming a loving community of friendship and support
despite oppressive conditions.This is a truly the most beautiful movie
i've ever seen. Highly recommended!

******
26 May 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption..What can i say it is one of the most amazing
movies ever made.The cast is amazing and the characters suit each and
everyone of the star.Morgan Freeman did an amazing job as always as a
narrator and on of the cast member.He is in his all time deep words and
quotes.The main role done by Tim Robbins is too good.One of the most
deep characters of all time and Tim Robbins doing such an amazing
job,He made me feel the character.One of the best movies and acting's
of all time. I strongly prefer this movie to people who love to see
someone act and look into an awesome story,this is such an amazing
piece of art

******
26 May 2014
10
Well-acted, well-directed, powerful and thought-provoking, The
Shawshank Redemption encompasses all of the above, as it tells the
incredibly inspiring story of friendship and hope. Both Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman shine in their roles as inmates who develop a remarkable
bond during their imprisonment, facing the struggles of prison life
together and ultimately finding redemption. Although it focuses on a
very familiar theme, The Shawshank Redemption stands out from the rest
of the films in its genre, mainly due to the extremely intimate
portrayal of its characters it has to offer. The film successfully uses
its prison setting as a lens for society, and manages to present the
audience with important life lessons throughout the storyline. Although
not designed as a film of epic proportions, its nature does have an
immense emotional impact on the viewer, which makes The Shawshank
Redemption one of the greatest films of all time.

******
25 May 2014
8
This is simply one of the best films ever made and I know I am not the
first to say that and I certainly won't be the last. The standing on
the IMDb is a true barometer of that. #3 as of this date and I'm sure
it could be number 1. So I'll just skip all the normal praise of the
film because we all know how great it is. But let me perhaps add that
what I find so fascinating about Shawshank is that Stephen King wrote
it.King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the
Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his
best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was
brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned
Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes
onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to
understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully. What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it
conveys. It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim
Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he
never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man
again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane,
but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a
different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and
I don't know if there will again.

******
25 May 2014
10
This movie title is nothing like the movie. Keep in mind that the movie
was based on a book by Stephen King. For a fan of King this is not
something that you would expect. The movie has very little action in
it, but is about true redemption, which is not revealed until the end
of the movie. Personally I love this movie. The way that the cast
interacts with each other is really what gives this movie the flare
that you need. The prison that it was filmed at is a real prison
located in Mansfield, Ohio. It can actually be toured by the general
public, as can other aspects of the movie. This is a definite must see
movie for anyone who wants something that will make them think about
what is important in life.

******
24 May 2014
10
I have seen the movie first and than read the book and especially in
this case, I think it was the right order. I love every moment in the
movie, it was made in a very good way. Excellent cast, director and
photographer. This is my favorite movie. I watch this movie at least
twice in every year and still love it. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins
brilliantly play in it. They were very good choices for these
characters - even they are look like totally different as the book's
characters. I think they really enjoy to play their movie characters.
Before I have seen this movie someone said to me, it is only a newer
"prison story". Yes, basically it is "only" a prison story. But there
is nothing similar to The Shawshank Redemption! I can offer this movie
to anyone who like well written stories with very good acting and very
good directing.

******
24 May 2014
9
If you want to sit back with a bowl of popcorn and be entertained by
one of the greatest movies to ever grace the screen. Well you have
found it here. Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman should tell you everything
you need to know, if you want to know how the acting is, to put it
simply, It is nothing short of Fantastic. The movie hits like a
king-maker right from the get go, and just doesn't let you go until the
final credits roll.The direction the movie takes may feel predictable to most, but it is
well worth it.Sit back and enjoy.

******
20 May 2014
10
Has to be the best prison movie ever. Yes, it's even better than the
Green Mile. I've been putting off watching this movie forever, thinking
it was going to be boring and sappy. But it's far from it. This movie
wraps you up in its story and it always feels very real due to superb
filmmaking. The acting couldn't get any better, and in the end this is
one of the most uplifting movies ever made. Yes it's very long, but it
without a doubt justifies its length.Based on the Stephen King novel by the same name, it's simply the best
movie ever made, it should had won best picture in 1994, and all
characters performances are incredible. If you haven't watch it, just
do it without thinking about it twice.

******
19 May 2014
10
This is one of the best movies I have ever seen in my life. I think I
was 14 years the first time I saw it. Mamma tell us a little for me
before I got to cuddle me down on the couch and watch a movie for over
2 hours - That it has with little trouble and jail to do. After I saw
the movie I wanted it to continue. Wish in the future to it will
continue. You'll see how 'Red' experience meeting along with Andy
Dufresne. You get to see how they manage the prison with fractions,
friendship & grief. Or what happens to the 'Red' & Andy's friends.
Think it would make a great blow through all categories of stellar top!
I have even heard of me to Castle Rock & other to give them a tip about
making a new sequel.

******
18 May 2014
10
Great movie. Very upsetting at points though, if you ever been to jail
or know someone that went to jail thats close to you it tends to hit
home. But overall, that's really the point. It really shows what can
happen in jail, and how people can be falsely accused. i've watched
this movie to many times but still love it so its one of those kind of
movies really. but its good to pay attention to everything or it gets
confusing. i didn't really pay attention the first time i watched it i
don't think, and i kept asking questions throughout the whole movie
because didn't know what was going on. i very well recommend this movie
to people of all age groups because it truthfully it can even teach you
a lesson to stay away from certain things.

******
17 May 2014
10
One of those bores that liked it before all the hoopla...remember
getting to watch as I'd read the Stephen King short story in the
collection of novella's* of which it was part (which I had only read as
it contained the short story 'the Body' which was turned into my
previous favourite film, Stand by Me) Upon watching what I thought was an astonishing film on video, I
wondered why I hadn't heard of this being at the cinema or talked
about....although I say that latter point now...it's probably something
that has developed over time... much like the buzz for the film
itself... I can say it remains to this day the only film that I have
watched after reading the story, that is much better and more poignant
than the book from which it came. The film itself is told in a great way and filmed brilliantly...not
least captured by the character of the warden (depicting what were 3 in
the novella). It is full of great supporting characters and turns and
there are two brilliant male leads (they both should've have got an
Oscar nomination with one of them winning!). It's a film where if I
started writing about the components of, or scenes from, I could go on
For longer than the film itself...(which despite its length never felt
like a long movie!) So will just say that I'd recommend watching it to
anyone. I've watched it copious times since first viewing and it never
gets boring or do I seem to switch off when it's on...so a boring
choice of favourite film, but it really is a great movie.10/10* the collection (4 seasons) of short stories also contains Apt Pupil,
which is probably the best of the novella's but was turned into a
pretty average movie!

******
17 May 2014
10
A must watch from start to finish this movie has you glued to your seat
and you actually care and hate some character's. if you like jail
movies it is a great one and the acting is top notch . There are not
many movies out there that can come close to the quality and excellence
of this one from the story to the backgrounds and all the little
details . Do your self a service and go and watch it I am sure you wont
regret the 3hr length (give or take). g how they were handling their
publishing duties. Selected media members were allowed to play the
title, the amount of players at once was cut in half near release, and
review copies were shipped out just in time for the release of the
physical copies of the game. All of this is just speculation on the
quality of the title, but after playing Borderlands 2, it makes sense.
Even with the Ce-shaded art style being very flattering for weaker
hardware, the game still had serious issues that could not be patched
up in time for release. The frame rate is almost always below 30fps,
and rarely ever stabilizes unless you were to go to a vacant area and
just stand there. Sometimes, the game cannot process everything
happening on the screen, and the entire game freezes for around 1-2
seconds. The hardware cannot keep up with the action at many points,
and this leaves the player frozen, confused, and even sometimes dead.
There are numerous cheap deaths in Borderlands 2 due to the lack of
hardware power. Although it is clear that the game has many issues
resulting from the port job, it is also clear that the developer
legitimately tried at this daunting task. Sometimes when it comes to
ports, the actual problems stem from the studio that is given the job

******
17 May 2014
10
This is a wonderful movie everyone should watch it. It has some very
very funny parts. Morgan Freeman is great is this film. This is his
best role ever.This is a wonderful movie everyone should watch it. It
has some very very funny parts. Morgan Freeman is great is this film.
This is his best role ever.This is a wonderful movie everyone should
watch it. It has some very very funny parts. Morgan Freeman is great is
this film. This is his best role ever.This is a wonderful movie
everyone should watch it. It has some very very funny parts. Morgan
Freeman is great is this film. This is his best role ever.This is a
wonderful movie everyone should watch it. It has some very very funny
parts. Morgan Freeman is great is this film. This is his best role
ever.This is a wonderful movie everyone should watch it. It has some
very very funny parts. Morgan Freeman is great is this film. This is
his best role ever.This is a wonderful movie everyone should watch it.
It has some very very funny parts. Morgan Freeman is great is this
film. This is his best role ever.This is a wonderful movie everyone
should watch it. It has some very very funny parts. Morgan Freeman is
great is this film. This is his best role ever.This is a wonderful
movie everyone should watch it. It has some very very funny parts.
Morgan Freeman is great is this film. This is his best role ever.This
is a wonderful movie everyone should watch it. It has some very very
funny parts. Morgan Freeman is great is this film. This is his best
role ever.This is a wonderful movie everyone should watch it. It has
some very very funny parts. Morgan Freeman is great is this film. This
is his best role ever.This is a wonderful movie everyone should watch
it. It has some very very funny parts. Morgan Freeman is great is this
film. This is his best role ever.This is a wonderful movie everyone
should watch it. It has some very very funny parts. Morgan Freeman is
great is this film. This is his best role ever.This is a wonderful
movie everyone should watch it. It has some very very funny parts.
Morgan Freeman is great is this film. This is his best role ever.This
is a wonderful movie everyone should watch it. It has some very very
funny parts. Morgan Freeman is great is this film. This is his best
role ever.This is a wonderful movie everyone should watch it. It has
some very very funny parts. Morgan Freeman is great is this film. This
is his best role ever.v

******
16 May 2014
10
One of the best movies I have ever seen! A brilliant performance, a
life story and the perseverance of achieving your goals! A story about
a man imprisoned for killing his wife becomes the true example of the
saying that "not the strongest or the most intelligent survives,
survives the one who adapts". An intelligent person that takes patience
and perseverance on this way to freedom. A very calculated plan of
escape that takes place over a number of years. A movie that I see
every time with that same passion and pleasure. And the voice of Morgan
Freeman always makes me feel in the middle of the story with every
emotional state that comes with it.

******
14 May 2014
10
really its a great movie.......... It is a strange comment to make
about a film set inside a prison, but "The Shawshank Redemption"
creates a warm hold on our feelings because it makes us a member of a
family. Many movies offer us vicarious experiences and quick,
superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and looks. It uses the
narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in the story of men who
have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper than most films;
about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship and hope.Interesting that although the hero of the film is the convicted former
banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is never seen from his
point of view. The film's opening scene shows him being given two life
sentences for the murder of his wife and her lover, and then we move,
permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and
particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman). It is his
voice remembering the first time he saw Andy ("looked like a stiff
breeze would blow him over"), and predicting, wrongly, that he wouldn't
make it in prison.

******
13 May 2014
10
One of the best movies I have ever seen. Its not something I would
typically watch. Im not a huge fan of prison movies and there is very
little action. But every time it comes on TV, I end up completely
engrossed in it.Its about a man who claims to be wrongly accused of murder going to
prison. There he meets quite a few interesting characters who range
from actually criminal to sweet and naive. The main character is a well
educated accountant that uses his intelligence and determined demeanor
to makes changes in the prison, including expanding the library and
doing the wardens taxes. Even though he makes the place more
comfortable for him and his fellow inmates, he is determined to never
get "institutionalized" and keeps hope of getting out and back to the
real world.

******
12 May 2014
8
Good film. Good Story. Fun Characters. Enticing plot. Escape plan is
well though out. The warden is mean. Morgan Freeman does a fine job. I
liked the movie. I may see it again. I would recommend it. A guys
movie. Girls could enjoy it though. Info below is plot from
Wikipedia.The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film
written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman. Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a
banker who spends 19 years in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of
his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence. During his time
at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding,
and finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using
him in his money laundering operation. Despite a lukewarm box office
reception that barely recouped its budget, the film received multiple
award nominations and favorable reviews from critics for its acting and
realism. It has since enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television,
VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray. It was included in the American Film Institute's
100 Years...100 Movies 10th Anniversary Edition.

******
12 May 2014
10
This movie is excellent , it is not only an example of utmost focus and
effort put by an innocent person to archive his aim. I have gone
through The Count of Monte Cristo ; after reading the book of course,
that also is inline in some way with the movie; also Escape is one of
its kind; The sharpness of mind and the direction or goal through which
the hero goes gives sharp example of focus and patience. Shawshank
Redemption is The Best movie of all , best part perhaps is the
discovery of the tunnel, it is and will be one of my most favored and
beloved movies.Only sad part is that I don't see movies like these in
air frequently, also could only know the name of the movie through a
friend of mine.

******
12 May 2014
9
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, in the same movie. Does one need to say more? Morgan Freeman leads this all star cast on and interesting journey of
the 1930's to 1950's prison system.The story has been told is such a way that you feel as if you are
actually there to see the events take place.There are tears of joy and laughter, tears of sadness at the injustice.This is a movie that requires some patience but have no fear if you pay
attention the twists and turns will be plain to see.Tim Robbins is magnificent as a jilted husband who is wrongly accused
of his wife's murder.Morgan Freeman is there a movie in which this man doesn't do well in?
He is brilliant as an old con who is in Shawshank for murder.Overall this is a brilliant movie and delivers on all counts.

******
12 May 2014
9
This is a must watch movie in every once life,love it.. the reviews
which are ahead are as good as the movie... every frame in the movie
has its meaning. one can think easily that even though movie came on to
the screen two decades earlier it is still no:1 in its position i
personally created this account to give my rating and write a review on
such a wonderful film. i felt very happy after watching this film and i
thought of sharing with you. finally i want to say that "entertainment
is there ever corner of our life. but meaning of the true life lies
with in this movie". this movie give a valuable message "if we want a
thing really & actually from the heart then every force on this earth
will try to help us..but the only thing we have to do is never loose
HOPE"

******
12 May 2014
10
I definitely loved this movie to bits. From the start, i had know idea what was going to happen nor how it
would end. During the movie it was understandable, enjoyable and
original. When i say Original i mean its like something i haven't seen
nor experienced. Actors pretty basic, i wouldn't ague about it, but the 21st century
would. Its a great movie, i would watch it over and over and i would
never get bored of it.None should hate this movie, in my opinion its a excellent choice to
watch and deserves a big 10/10loved it!

******
11 May 2014
10
I apologize to you for my bad English. This is the most amazing movie I
watched. Bondage and freedom, has been described in an incredible way.
Good movies gather them in the last 30 years, the number 30 does not. I
was very impressed with the intelligence of screenwriter. This event is
real or not, but the film is absolutely fantastic. I am a Turk. So, ten
lines write is too hard. Anyway, for this successful film, I want to
thank everyone who contributed. Made me happy, I feel my life has added
something. I never get bored and watch over and over again. I think it
may forever remain in the TOP250 list. Because, this film beyond time..
ooh I finally finished..

******
11 May 2014
10
It's a poignant story about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a
film like this more than a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those
are the films people talk about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's
also a story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, from rule, from
bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are majestic in their
performances. Each learns from the other. Their relationship is strong
and you feel that from the first moment they make contact with one
another. There is also a wonderful performance from legend James
Whitmore as Brooks.Several exterior scenes were shot at the Malabar Farm State Park, in
nearby Lucas, Ohio. The sequence in which Andy is parked outside his
home contemplating murdering his wife was filmed at the Pugh Cabin
within the park.The Shawshank Redemption was filmed in and around the city of
Mansfield, Ohio, located in north-central Ohio. The prison featured in
the film is the old Ohio State Reformatory immediately north of down
town Mansfield.The sequences representing the village of Buxton and the field where
Red finds Andy's hidden letter were filmed on private land located
opposite the park entrance on Bromfield Road. The oak tree is clearly
visible from the roadside. The adjacent rock wall, which was
constructed specifically for the film, is located on the far side of
the hill away from the roadside. The wall is still standing, although
it has been somewhat eroded. Other scenes were shot in Ashland, Ohio,
Butler, Ohio, Upper Sandusky, Ohio and Portland, Maine.The two scenes in Mexico were filmed on the Island of St. Croix in the
U.S. Virgin Islands. The first scene where Andy was driving a
convertible on a road along the Pacific Coast with the top down is
route 73 on the north side of St. Croix between Salt River (where
Christopher Columbus landed in 1493) and Cane Bay.The second scene was the last scene of the movie. Red was walking on a
beach toward his friend Andy while he worked on repairs to a boat on
the beach. That was filmed at Sandy Point National Wildlife Refuge on
the south west point of St.Croix.

******
10 May 2014
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" isn't a sad story, although you may think it
is. There is a lot of feelings in it, like life and humor, and warmth
in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There is even
excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But mostly the
film is an allegory about sustain a sense of personal value,
notwithstanding everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea too, to give us a sense
of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption. I truly recommend that you watch this movie, because, for
me, is the best movie ever made

******
10 May 2014
10
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are inspirational as Andy and Red. I
have seen this movie about 30 times, maybe more. This film is full of
surprises. It keeps you guessing about Andy's guilt until the end. The
prison escape reminded me of the Count of Monte Cristo so it was
especially funny that this Dumas book was mentioned in the movie. It is
a great film about institutionalization. It also is a good
representation of prison life in its time period. It would make a great
film to watch for a Criminal Justice class. This is a must see movie
for anyone who thinks their life has turned out bad. It can always be
worse.In Andy's case it was.

******
9 May 2014
10
The plot is very creative. The part when Andy finally escapes and
throughout the whole movie he digging a tunnel to escape. I also enjoy
the parody on the TV show "Family Guy". If you have Netflix check it
out. The episode is called "Three Kings". It also contains wonderful
parody's of King's other wonderful work "Misery", "Stand by Me", and
also hints at the masterpiece "The Shining". They do a great job on
"Shawshank" and the rest of the stories and they stick to the story
lines and change so few very things. Just a few names (To fit the TV
show) and a little of the story line to spice things up and make less
depressing and little more funny. King is at his best here and has only
reached this kind of high point few times before.

******
8 May 2014
10
This have to be one of the best movies I have ever seen with excellent
actors and the best plot! You will never forget this movie after you
have watched this. The story is so real that you are gonna believe it
is based on a true story, even though it is not. The bad thing about
writing this review is that the reader right away will have too high
expectations and that is almost never a good thing. But this movie has
really got in to me, and is the one I always recommend first when
people ask me for movie-recommendations. The move is exciting, funny
and it will not disappoint you. Watch this, you will not feel like you
have wasted 142 minutes - trust me!

******
7 May 2014
9
what a movie..! amazing chemistry.The ugly realities of prison life are
quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob Gunton), sadistic
guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and inmates who are
little better than animals, willing to use rape or beatings to insure
their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the hope of the truly
innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him to prevail behind
bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with the warden and the
guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal business schemes and
keeping an eye on the investments of most of the prison staff. In
exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and bring some
dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including Red. Based
on a story by Stephen King.

******
7 May 2014
10
I will not summarize the plot as it's all in other reviews. But I do
want to say that this is probably the most inspiring and one of the
greatest movies ever made. It cuts across all gender, race, socio-
economic, religious and any other barriers you can think of. I do not
know one person who has seen SR and has not been affected by it. I've
heard about all the actors who were considered for the roles of Andy
and Red and I cannot think of anyone else in them but Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman, they were so good. Everyone involved in this movie was
excellent. Every once in a while I will pull out the DVD and just watch
the last 30 minutes to be encouraged. This movie is for everyone.

******
6 May 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is so much more then just a "prison movie".
Indeed a majority of the film takes place in the drab, cold, depressing
world of a prison which sets the tone and the stage for the vibrant
characters Frank Darabont directs on screen. This is where the movie
shines. It's about hope, loyalty, survival and most importantly,
friendship. Andy Defresne and Red (Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman) put on a
spectacle in this film, the way they present their characters, the yin
and yang of the two is one of the most incredible acting duo's put on
celluloid. The film begins with Andy being the one that needs Red, yet
in the final act of the film, we see just how much the two need each
other. The supporting cast is also brilliant. One of the late, great James
Whitmores final great films. I simply cannot do this film justice with words. It's one of those
films that needs to be seen at least once. One of the great travesty's
is that this film did not win best picture in 1995 or any of the other
awards it was nominated for. Not to take away from Forrest Gump, but
the Shawshank Redemption simply blew it out of the water.

******
6 May 2014
10
This review contains spoilers, so spoiler alert!!! This film draws you
in from the very beginning; from Tim Robins character coming home
catching his wife cheating, to her being murdered. The theme is similar
to the movie the Fugitive to me, the only difference was in the film
the Fugitive, Harrison Fords character ran in the beginning, in Shaw
Shank Redemption, Tim Robins Character runs towards the end, after he
suffers abuse being locked up with hardened criminals in prison. I felt
sorry for Tim Robins character being falsely accused and having to
suffer rape, false imprisonment and lost years. One stand out theme to
me in watching this film is you can imprison the man, but you cannot
imprison his mind. Tim Robins Character was locked up for years but his
mind was free, instead of living inside the prison, Tim Robins
Character lives inside his head remembering he is good with numbers and
accounting and living inside his head instead of his bad circumstances
was his characters saving grace in this film. I would definitely
recommend people watch this movie. If you are going through pain,
sometimes it helps to see other people going through stuff more worse
than you and survive, become a victor instead of a victim, and for that
this is my favorite Tim Robins film. Morgan Freeman, was Morgan
Freeman, even as a supporting cast he made you feel his presence, his
voice, the way he chooses his words makes you can't take your eyes off
him. He makes you feel his pain and his friendship with Tim Robins
Character. This is a film I can see myself watching again and again
when I'm having a bad day. Hope this review helps. Now go watch this
movie.

******
5 May 2014
10
This film was very inspirational and spiritual and I really enjoyed it.
It truly demonstrated how difficult life was back then. It was well
written and well produced. The acting that was demonstrated was
tremendous. I truly enjoyed watching this film. The film Shawshank
Redemption conveys to the audience the image of hope in the worst
possible situation. Through the themes and the cinematic decisions
applied in these two episodes the director has made these vital to the
understanding of the movie. He has given two examples of the extreme
situations to which prisoners go depending on their emotions. One of
the emotions is yet one of the main themes of the movie, hope, and in
my opinion it has been brought up extremely effectively.

******
1 May 2014
10
Simply dumbstruck an no wonder why this movie tops the IMDb List for
these long years. Its simple awesome to look at the simplicity and the
screen play. The best casting and acting. At some point of time I
started to look around and realized that I am still at my home. No odd
scenes, dialog, character).. My only concern is why its 9.2/10 ( why is
the remaining(.8)% of people voted below 10?, because they are called
as Morons....The best part is that, the director or the film crew is
not so greedy to shoot a prequel or sequel after the massive success of
this film. Hats off, and that is the real victory of the movie. This is
my first review and I am forced to write 10 Lines of text.Sorry guys!!

******
30 April 2014
10
Amir Johnson does a funny thing when you tell him his true value on a
basketball court.The Toronto Raptors forward, long the darling of the NBA's stat heads,
seems like a modest guy. The night before he gave an interview in
Toronto this month, he had appeared as a guest judge on Canada's
version of "Top Chef." He might have been fine talking about food
instead of basketball; in fact, when a visiting radio host took Johnson
aside earlier in the day, the host seemed to care little about the
team's first playoff appearance since 2008. Instead, for an on-air bit,
he cajoled Johnson into singing the Backstreet Boys instead of his
teammates' praises.But now the topic at hand is this: Johnson is worth a ton to the
Raptors, who tied their first-round playoff series with the Nets at two
games apiece Sunday night in Brooklyn. At just 26 years old, he's never
made an All-Star team -- hasn't even come close. Not once in his nine
seasons has he averaged more than 11 points or 7.5 rebounds per game.
Sometimes, he doesn't even start. Yet there is a large sect of league
followers that consider Johnson among the most valuable, efficient and
irreplaceable players in the NBA.When he is told this, Johnson pulls a hand toward his face and cups it
with his palm. He shields himself from view for an instant, turning his
head down, away from a reporter, and to the floor. But there is a smile
there, too.

******
30 April 2014
10
When I saw this movie , I really become a fan . what a story and how it
is composed this is awesome. The lesson of the story is too wide that
when you actually do something with zeal and zest then you can achieve
it. Morgan Freeman , what a actor he is.Tim Robbins, one of our best,
most casual, young actors, plays a banker in the 1940's who is falsely
sent to Shawshank Prison for the death of his wife and her lover. In
this maximum security penitentiary, Robbins is harassed by the warden,
beaten by guards, and sexually abused by inmates. The first and best
friend he makes is the elder statesman of the yard, a long time convict
played by the great Morgan Freeman. Over time, Robbins will make other
friends, some of whom will be absolutely paralyzed by freedom in the
straight world. Even better than "Birdman of Alcatraz," "The Shawshank
Redemption" creates the world of overbearing closure that is prison.

******
29 April 2014
10
i like an awesome film any way i like Morgan freeman films he is the
boss i like an awesome film any way i like Morgan freeman films he is
the boss i like an awesome film any way i like Morgan freeman films he
is the boss i like an awesome film any way i like Morgan freeman films
he is the boss i like an awesome film any way i like Morgan freeman
films he is the boss i like an awesome film any way i like Morgan
freeman films he is the boss i like an awesome film any way i like
Morgan freeman films he is the boss i like an awesome film any way i
like Morgan freeman films he is the boss i like an awesome film any way
i like Morgan freeman films he is the boss i like an awesome film any
way i like Morgan freeman films he is the boss i like an awesome film
any way i like Morgan freeman films he is the boss i like an awesome
film any way i like Morgan freeman films he is the boss i like an
awesome film any way i like Morgan freeman films he is the boss

******
29 April 2014
10
this is one of the greatest movies of all time. in my opinion its the
second best movie ever. everything is great about this movie the only
thing i hate about this movie are the many clichés. like the maggot he
found in his food the prison rapes, black-white guy friendship. every
scene is perfectly shot. the acting is perfect. the story is brilliant.
and every character is perfectly developed. i recommend every French
and Germany dude to watch this movie in the Original language. it may
be not you're favorite genre, but you can't deny that this is a great
movie. i agree it is a bit overrated but thats not a reason to give
this movie 1/10. if you rate this movie below 8 you're not human.

******
29 April 2014
10
This is an excellent work. For a movie that doesn't have much drama,
but has so realistic details, I was captivated. The performances are
epic. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman has done one of the finest work of
acting. The plot was not the most unique or unusual, but the work was
Homeric, by that I mean it is monumental. This is one of those movies
that will put you to think, that how patience can yield you fruits and
how impatience and wrath can put you to jail. His anger made him do
something (though he didn't do it) but he did act towards killing his
wife, which lead him to jail. And later the patience was the only key
for success, and he did manage to get away from that jail.by working
hard for it. A must watch.

******
28 April 2014
6
I get nightmares where I think Morgan Freeman is narrating in my head
and I can't turn him off. For me, his condescending delivery which
peels back of the top layer of the man onion, defines this film, and so
it starts to lose me a bit. This is a really good story but so much of
the film is made up of episodes of over the top male bonding. I find it
astonishing that it rates so highly to be honest. I also have a problem
with the plethora of goofs. Why do the contents of an atmospheric
sewerage line explode upon the breaking of its pipe with a brick? Like
that would work anyway. And why place a boat that you want to paint
paint right on the edge of the sea as the moment the tide comes in it
will simply float away? And how did our protagonist get the poster
stuck back once he went through his escape tunnel in the wall? There
are so many stupid parts to it. I enjoyed it generally though, as I say
its a good yarn - but the best film ever! Best film ever for males with
IQs under 80 perhaps. I could believe that.

******
27 April 2014
10
I had heard a lot about the movie before seeing it..And I would wonder
what would be so great about a prison movie.. But now after seeing it,
i can say it is the best movie I've ever seen.. This is how movies
should be.. And it proves that no special effects, technology,
costumes, locations can substitute for good story and acting. I have
never been so moved or influenced by any movie as I have by this
one..It leaves you with a sense of happiness and deep satisfaction.. It
is a thought provoking and emotionally uplifting movie which teaches us
so much about life, hope, friendship..It has some memorable lines which
really create an impact.. Acting by all actors is top notch.. Too sad
the movie did not win a single Oscar.. The no.1 spot on IMDb is very
well deserved.. It is timeless classic which will be remembered for
years to come.

******
27 April 2014
7
Talk about not getting it. The clue to just how badly the reviewer
missed lies in the title. The theme is REDEMPTION, not hope or
sentimental treacle or the evils of capital punishment and Rush
Limbaugh. Further, it's a FANTASY, as close to Neal Gaiman as Stephen
King has ever come. (Hint: Fantasies aren't supposed to be real.) Nor
is Andy Dufresne a Cooperesque character. Rather, he is written as
diffident, difficult, and entirely unlovable at first blush. See my
next. All these comments are funny. I'm glad Glieberman wrote this
review. Everything he says about this overrated piece of goop is true.
It IS sentimental and exploitative, and makes prison seem trivial; who
cares about the rape if eventually I'll be redeemed, Hollywood style?
The characters are thinly portrayed, and it has little connection with
grit or honesty. Along with Forrest Gump and Gone With The Wind, one of
the most overpraised movies ever made.

******
26 April 2014
10
In 1947, banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of murdering
his wife and her lover, and sentenced to two consecutive life sentences
at Shawshank State Penitentiary. Andy quickly befriends contraband
smuggler Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), an inmate serving a life
sentence. Red procures a rock hammer for Andy, allowing him to create
small stone chess pieces. Red later gets him a large poster of Rita
Hayworth, followed in later years by images of Marilyn Monroe and
Raquel Welch. Andy works in the prison laundry, but is regularly
assaulted by the "bull queer" gang "the Sisters" and their leader, Bogs
(Mark Rolston).In 1949, Andy overhears the brutal chief guard Byron Hadley (Clancy
Brown) complaining about taxes on a forthcoming inheritance and informs
him about a financial loophole. After another vicious assault by the
Sisters nearly kills Andy, Hadley severely beats Bogs resulting in Bogs
being sent to another prison. Andy is not attacked again. Warden Samuel
Norton (Bob Gunton) meets with Andy and reassigns him to the prison
library to assist elderly inmate Brooks Hatlen (James Whitmore), a
pretext for Andy to manage financial duties for the prison. His advice
and expertise are soon sought by other guards at Shawshank and from
nearby prisons. Andy begins writing weekly letters to the state
government for funds to improve the decrepit library.In 1954, Brooks is freed on parole, but unable to adjust to the outside
world after 50 years in prison, he hangs himself. Andy receives a
library donation that includes a recording of The Marriage of Figaro.
He plays an excerpt over the public address system, resulting in his
receiving solitary confinement. After his release, Andy explains that
he holds onto hope as something that the prison cannot take from him,
but Red dismisses the idea. In 1963, Norton begins exploiting prison
labor for public works, profiting by undercutting skilled labor costs
and receiving kickbacks. He has Andy launder the money using the alias
"Randall Stephens".In 1965, Tommy Williams (Gil Bellows) is incarcerated for burglary. He
joins Andy's and Red's circle of friends, and Andy helps him pass his
General Educational Development (G.E.D.) examinations. In 1966, after
hearing the details of Andy's case, Tommy reveals that an inmate at
another prison claimed responsibility for an identical murder,
suggesting Andy's innocence. Andy approaches Norton with this
information, but the warden refuses to listen. Norton places Andy in
solitary confinement and has Hadley murder Tommy, under the guise of an
escape attempt. Andy refuses to continue with the scam, but Norton
threatens to destroy the library and take away his protection and
preferential treatment. After Andy is released from solitary
confinement, he tells Red of his dream of living in Zihuatanejo, a
Mexican Pacific coastal town. While Red shrugs it off as being
unrealistic, Andy instructs him, should he ever be freed, to visit a
specific hayfield near Buxton to retrieve a package. Red becomes
concerned with Andy's state of mind, particularly when he learns Andy
asked another inmate to supply him with six feet of rope.The next day at roll call, upon finding Andy's cell empty, an irate
Norton throws one of Andy's rocks at the poster of Raquel Welch hanging
on the wall. The rock tears through the poster, revealing a tunnel that
Andy had dug with his rock hammer over the previous two decades. The
previous night, Andy escaped through the tunnel and the prison's sewage
pipe with Norton's ledger, containing details of the money laundering.
While guards search for him the following morning, Andy, posing as
Randall Stephens, visits several banks to withdraw the laundered money.
Finally, he sends the ledger and evidence of the corruption and murders
at Shawshank to a local newspaper. The police arrive at Shawshank and
take Hadley into custody, while Norton commits suicide to avoid arrest.After serving 40 years, Red receives parole. He struggles to adapt to
life outside prison and fears he never will. Remembering his promise to
Andy, he visits Buxton and finds a cache containing money and a letter
asking him to come to Zihuatanejo. Red violates his parole and travels
to Fort Hancock, Texas to cross the border to Mexico, admitting he
finally feels hope. On a beach in Zihuatanejo, he finds Andy, and the
two friends are happily reunited.

******
26 April 2014
10
I voted 10 out of 10. This movie is truly inspiring. For me, the movie
says NEVER GIVE UP and WHEN THERE IS A WILL, THERE IS A WAY. The actors
portrayed their roles very well. I cannot believe it didn't do well the
way it should have compared to some non sense box office movies.I admired the kind of friendship Andy and Red had. I also admired the
way Andy made his way to earn the trust of the jail guards and fellow
inmates. He is indeed an intelligent man and he used it to gain
something that he needed to free himself. I wish I have that kind of
intelligence and persistence.The ending is really heartwarming. Seeing two old friends meeting again
and ready to start over again. It is just sad that ex-cons are not
given the chance to start over nowadays.

******
25 April 2014
10
I loved that movie. I heard a lot of thing about the film but its
better than I thought. Everybody have to take a look then they cant get
their eyes off it...When it start you consider it a ordinary movie. But
story is so touched. If you are an emotional person you cant help your
tears anymore. There are The successful performances first the starring
Morgin Freeman and the another stars. It looks a desperate story but
after a half hour you can see hopeful movie. You even feel hopeful and
optimist when you finish the movie. And Its has the best final... You
can see the darkness side of jail and you can see old men living a
child inside, a child inside and never let him die . When you feel
worst when you have no more choice you have yourself your hope and make
your own destiny. It was the message that I had from that movie...

******
23 April 2014
9
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
23 April 2014
9
as Carlfo Said.Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.

******
23 April 2014
8
In 1947, banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of murdering
his wife and her lover, and sentenced to two consecutive life sentences
at Shawshank State Penitentiary. Andy quickly befriends contraband
smuggler Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), an inmate serving a life
sentence. Red procures a rock hammer for Andy, allowing him to create
small stone chess pieces. Red later gets him a large poster of Rita
Hayworth, followed in later years by images of Marilyn Monroe and
Raquel Welch. Andy works in the prison laundry, but is regularly
assaulted by the "bull queer" gang "the Sisters" and their leader, Bogs
(Mark Rolston).In 1949, Andy overhears the brutal chief guard Byron Hadley (Clancy
Brown) complaining about taxes on a forthcoming inheritance and informs
him about a financial loophole. After another vicious assault by the
Sisters nearly kills Andy, Hadley severely beats Bogs resulting in Bogs
being sent to another prison. Andy is not attacked again. Warden Samuel
Norton (Bob Gunton) meets with Andy and reassigns him to the prison
library to assist elderly inmate Brooks Hatlen (James Whitmore), a
pretext for Andy to manage financial duties for the prison. His advice
and expertise are soon sought by other guards at Shawshank and from
nearby prisons. Andy begins writing weekly letters to the state
government for funds to improve the decrepit library.In 1954, Brooks is freed on parole, but unable to adjust to the outside
world after 50 years in prison, he hangs himself. Andy receives a
library donation that includes a recording of The Marriage of Figaro.
He plays an excerpt over the public address system, resulting in his
receiving solitary confinement. After his release, Andy explains that
he holds onto hope as something that the prison cannot take from him,
but Red dismisses the idea. In 1963, Norton begins exploiting prison
labor for public works, profiting by undercutting skilled labor costs
and receiving kickbacks. He has Andy launder the money using the alias
"Randall Stephens".In 1965, Tommy Williams (Gil Bellows) is incarcerated for burglary. He
joins Andy's and Red's circle of friends, and Andy helps him pass his
General Educational Development (G.E.D.) examinations. In 1966, after
hearing the details of Andy's case, Tommy reveals that an inmate at
another prison claimed responsibility for an identical murder,
suggesting Andy's innocence. Andy approaches Norton with this
information, but the warden refuses to listen. Norton places Andy in
solitary confinement and has Hadley murder Tommy, under the guise of an
escape attempt. Andy refuses to continue with the scam, but Norton
threatens to destroy the library and take away his protection and
preferential treatment. After Andy is released from solitary
confinement, he tells Red of his dream of living in Zihuatanejo, a
Mexican Pacific coastal town. While Red shrugs it off as being
unrealistic, Andy instructs him, should he ever be freed, to visit a
specific hayfield near Buxton to retrieve a package. Red becomes
concerned with Andy's state of mind, particularly when he learns Andy
asked another inmate to supply him with six feet of rope.The next day at roll call, upon finding Andy's cell empty, an irate
Norton throws one of Andy's rocks at the poster of Raquel Welch hanging
on the wall. The rock tears through the poster, revealing a tunnel that
Andy had dug with his rock hammer over the previous two decades. The
previous night, Andy escaped through the tunnel and the prison's sewage
pipe with Norton's ledger, containing details of the money laundering.
While guards search for him the following morning, Andy, posing as
Randall Stephens, visits several banks to withdraw the laundered money.
Finally, he sends the ledger and evidence of the corruption and murders
at Shawshank to a local newspaper. The police arrive at Shawshank and
take Hadley into custody, while Norton commits suicide to avoid arrest.After serving 40 years, Red receives parole. He struggles to adapt to
life outside prison and fears he never will. Remembering his promise to
Andy, he visits Buxton and finds a cache containing money and a letter
asking him to come to Zihuatanejo. Red violates his parole and travels
to Fort Hancock, Texas to cross the border to Mexico, admitting he
finally feels hope. On a beach in Zihuatanejo, he finds Andy, and the
two friends are happily reunited.

******
23 April 2014
10
Darabont constructs the film to observe the story, not to punch it up
or upstage it. Upstaging, in fact, is unknown in this film; the actors
are content to stay within their roles, the story moves in an orderly
way, and the film itself reflects the slow passage of the decades.
"When they put you in that cell," Red says, "when those bars slam home,
that's when you know it's for real. Old life blown away in the blink of
an eye. Nothing left but all the time in the world to think about it."
Watching the film again, I admired it even more than the first time I
saw it. Affection for good films often grows with familiarity, as it
does with music. Some have said life is a prison, we are Red, Andy is
our redeemer. All good art is about something deeper than it admits.

******
23 April 2014
10
This movie was the perfect example of those who have patience, and the
will to move forward, and fight for what you believe in shall always
prevail. Maybe not right then when you want it but it shall happen.
Regardless of the plot he went and did what he had to and never once
lost his wits and his will. The actors were amazing and one of my
favorites in Morgan freeman once again did his thing in capturing the
character, and just drawing you into the movie itself. It's Amazing how
things from back then, still somewhat hasn't changed in this time era.
Maybe someday our judicial system will change for the better who knows.
Yet for right now we do with what we have and hope and pray it changes
for the better. Awesome awesome movie that I have seen countless times.

******
22 April 2014
10
it is a movie which got me involved into it gradually. It didn't dazzle
me just from the beginning or made me fell fantasy all the time. But,
as soon as i finished the movie, it seemed that i just lived a life of
the characters. The story is moved with a character of a banker,Andy
Dufresne , who was punished to go into Shawshank prison and his life
there. He meets a person called Red there who is another main character
in the movie. As the story go further it introduces new things of his
prison life and keep interested in the movie. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman did a brilliant job,who are the main roles Andy Dufresne and
Red in the movie.Besides, other actors were good as well. I felt the
same feeling when I watched 'Forest Gump',which is also a favorite
movie of mine. Finally, I just love the movie and would like to advise
everyone to watch it.

******
19 April 2014
9
thats was a amazing film ever i see keep it ^^i think this film form 1999 years ago is a good film at that time so?
what do you think about this? can you share it? how to download it??
ask casino261.com or who ??go try look :) what do you want? why just reviews must min 10 of text?
who make this site? can u give me the reason?guide ?? Profanity, obscenities, or spiteful remarks. Time-sensitive material
(i.e., promotional tours, seminars, lectures, etc.). Single-word
reviews. We want to know why you liked or disliked the title. Avoid
unannounced spoilers! Please don't reveal crucial plot elements. If you
include a spoiler without warning readers in advance your name will be
added to a blacklist and, subsequently, all your reviews will be
discarded automatically. To label a spoiler make sure you check the
'contains spoilers' checkbox. Phone numbers, mail addresses, URLs.
Availability, price, or ordering/shipping information. Writing in
ALL-CAPS! Writing sentences in all-uppercase characters is considered
"SHOUTING" and must be avoided. Any review in violation of these
guidelines will not be posted or may be edited to conform to the
guidelines. In addition, IMDb reserves the right not to post any review
for any reason. regards, MakelarCasinoOnline

******
19 April 2014
9
'The Shawshank Redemption' is a brilliant adaptation, if only because
Darabont has some quintessential scenes added. So Andy locks himself
inside the library, while he plays opera music all over the courtyard.
In another sequence Darabont shows the suicide of an old freed prisoner
who cant get used to the outside world. There are some smaller changes
to the characters. Both in the book and the film Tommy Williams is the
young rascal who tells Andy who really killed his wife. Andy gets
excited and gets a month of solitary confinement, but in the move
Williams is murdered.The film is quite a gem. He tastes like freedom on a silver blue bird.
Freedom on a hot summer day. Freedom as "wander around the prison
grounds like you can go to a cocktail party at anytime " Freedom after
forty years' imprisonment. 'The Shawshank Redemption' colors the most
morbid mind blue. The color of the sea, The color of Andy's freedom.

******
19 April 2014
10
One of my favorite movie. There are several words can be use to
describe this movie : fantastic, excellent, perfect..I love every
details in this film. This movie contains such incredible actors and
actresses so it's already attractive to me.Well i'm speechless to talk
about this movie and i only can say that this is the ONE, this is the
movie that you're looking for..When I first watched this film I'm immediately suck into the story of
the film and i felt into it right away. Iwas such an extraordinary
memory and I will never forget it. If you haven't seen this movie well you should watch it right now. It's
worth it !

******
17 April 2014
10
Amazing Film really loved it, would highly recommend the film to
someone who hasn't watched it great acting, amazing storyline, great
performances from Tim Robbins and Morgan freeman. I'm not really into
prison movies that much but this is the best by far! great drama a must
watch!. Firstly, its setting. The opening aerial shots of the prison
are a total eye-opener. This is an amazing piece of architecture,
strong and Gothic in design. Immediately, the prison becomes a
character. It casts its shadow over most of the film, its tall stone
walls stretching above every shot. It towers over the men it contains,
blotting out all memories of the outside world. Only Andy (Robbins)
holds onto hope. It's in music, it's in the sandy beaches of
Zihuatanejo; "In here's where you need it most," he says. "You need it
so you don't forget. Forget that there are places in the world that
aren't made out of stone. That there's a - there's a - there's
something inside that's yours, that they can't touch." Red (Morgan
Freeman) doesn't think much of Andy at first, picking "that tall glass
o' milk with the silver spoon up his ass" as the first new fish to
crack. Andy says not a word, and losing his bet, Red resents him for
it. But over time, as the two get to know each other, they quickly
become the best of friends. This again, is one of the film's major
strengths. Many movies are about love, many flicks have a side-kick to
the hero, but Shawshank is the only one I can think of that looks
honestly at the love between two best friends. It seems odd that
Hollywood would skip this relationship time and again, when it's a
feeling that weighs so much into everyone's day to day lives. Perhaps
it's too sentimental to seem conventional, but Shawshank's core
friendship hits all the right notes, and the film is much better for
it.

******
17 April 2014
10
This is my ALL TIME FAVORITE movie ever. My children (whom also love
it) will not watch it with me because I say the lines all the way
through. I LOVE Morgan Freeman's voice, just something very comforting
to me, like home. The part where Red is describing how Andy got out
just fills my heart and to see Andy's smile at the end bring it full
circle! If you like this I would suggest: Murder in the First (Kevin
Bacon) and The Last Castle (Robert Redford) both very different even
though they are prison based and same era based movies they go in
different directions. I do not live very far from the prison in SR. My
mom did some kind of day trip/tour there and bought a small hard bound
book that had been used as a prop in the library scene (just sitting on
the shelf with others not actually "used" in the movie)

******
17 April 2014
7
It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but
"The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because
it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us vicarious
experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and
looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in
the story of men who have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper
than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship
and hope.Interesting that although the hero of the film is the convicted former
banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is never seen from his
point of view. The film's opening scene shows him being given two life
sentences for the murder of his wife and her lover, and then we move,
permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and
particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman). It is his
voice remembering the first time he saw Andy ("looked like a stiff
breeze would blow him over"), and predicting, wrongly, that he wouldn't
make it in prison. People like excitement at the movies, and titles
that provide it do well. Films about "redemption" are approached with
great wariness; a lot of people are not thrilled by the prospect of a
great film - it sounds like work. But there's a hunger for messages of
hope, and when a film offers one, it's likely to have staying power
even if it doesn't grab an immediate audience."The Shawshank Redemption" premiered at the Toronto Film Festival in
September 1994, and opened a few weeks later. It got good reviews but
did poor business (its $18 million original gross didn't cover costs;
it took in only another $10 million after winning seven Oscar
nominations, including best picture).

******
16 April 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption 'Two imprisoned men bond over a number of
years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common
decency.'So let me get straight to the point! Me searching for a good Morgan
Freeman movie as you know he is a good actor and I've near enough
watched every movie that he has been in. The tag-line said it all
really 'Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free.' especially
the ending scene where red found the letter quoting 'hope is a good
thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies... your
friend Andy.'The movie has absolutely got to be one of my favourite movies. The
acting was superb. The story-line was great. The filming was good. You
just have to give credit to the director Frank Darabont for doing such
an excellent job.

******
15 April 2014
10
Besttechcars.com - Nice movie and great action is one of the starts The
Shawshank Redemption. I think it should be shown again for us. how can
i takes this good movies is how to learn in this action. but there are
so many talking time that i am still making bored. It is a strange
comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but "The Shawshank
Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because it makes us a
member of a family. Many movies offer us vicarious experiences and
quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and looks. It uses
the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in the story of men
who have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper than most films;
about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship and hope. thanks.
IMDb. Click here www.besttechcars.com

******
15 April 2014
10
I have one word for this movie:brilliant! Everything in this movie just
works. If you didn't watch it yet,you are missing out!You have no
reason not to watch it. I myself watched it about 6 times now,and my
god i can never get bored of it. It is one of the best movie of all
times,and to be honest,it's best prison movie of all time.That i can
guarantee you! It's brilliantly directed,has some great actors,and for
me it's the best story ever told on film. Over all a great
experience.It truly is one of the finest movie made.That's about it.I
have nothing bad to say about this movie as you probably figured out
that by now :).

******
15 April 2014
9
The whole movies are incredible but you'd hate the ending... Without a
single riot scene or horrific effect, it tells a slow, gentle story of
camaraderie and growth, with an ending that abruptly finds poetic
justice in what has come before. The writer and director, Frank
Darabont, tells this tale with a surprising degree of loving care.There are times when "The Shawshank Redemption" comes dangerously close
to sounding one of those "triumph of the human spirit" notes. But most
of it is eloquently restrained. Despite an excess of voice-over
narration and inspirational music, Mr. Darabont's film has a genuine
dignity that holds the interest. It is helped greatly by fine,
circumspect performances from Morgan Freeman as a rueful lifer named
Red and Tim Robbins as Andy, the new kid on the cell-block. The film
spans nearly 20 years of friendship between these two.

******
15 April 2014
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is one of the best movies that I have ever
watched. Each and every element of the movie comes together to form an
exquisite cinematic story.Tim Robbins (Andy Dufresne) has plays his part to perfection and is
well complimented by Morgan Freeman (Ellis "Red" Redding). Frank Darabont masterfully entwines fate, courage, fear, hardship,
friendship, dreams and above all HOPE into one truly enticing cinematic
experience. The various phases in the movie are shown with so much
emotion that it gives the viewer a sense of being actually there at
that moment. The movie was nominated for seven Academy Awards in 1994 but walked
away with none which was very disheartening.

******
14 April 2014
10
OK, so before i get started i'd like to say that in my personal top 50,
this would probably make it in about the 40-45 mark, this wouldn't be
in the top 10's, 20's or 30's because of personal taste, nostalgia
factor etc etc. (and i've seen too many films to know).All i'll say is that this film deserves the #1 spot (on IMDb), the
story, characters are some of cinemas most realistic and the last 3rd,
leaves you high on hopes and great heartfelt joy. This made me even
shed a few tears.I'm very pleased i saw this film, and respect it as it should be, one
of the all time best.

******
13 April 2014
9
One of the finest films ever made, it has a storyline based on the
power of friendship. The film is about Two imprisoned men and how they
bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption
through acts of common decency. It is a beautifully made film and
credit should be given to director and writer Frank Darabont. The
acting masterclass of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins helps create a
heart-wrenching friendship as Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) struggles to
cope in Shawshank Prison as he has been wrongly accused for his wife's
murder. In steps "Red" (Morgan Freeman) a man who knows how to get
things who befriends Andy and learns about his story. This is one of my
all-time favourites and rightly so. It is one that everyone should
watch, a film where grit and determination, mixed with true friendship,
always helps you prevail in the most difficult of situations.

******
13 April 2014
10
If you write a spoiler without warning readers, your name will be added
to a blacklist and all your future reviews will be discarded
automatically and unread. See the guidelines for more information. Your
review does not contain enough lines - the minimum length for reviews
is 10 lines of text. Please see the guidelines. Attempts to pad the
comment with junk words can result in your account being blocked from
future submissions. If you write a spoiler without warning readers,
your name will be added to a blacklist and all your future reviews will
be discarded automatically and unread. See the guidelines for more
information. Your review does not contain enough lines - the minimum
length for reviews is 10 lines of text. Please see the guidelines.
Attempts to pad the comment with junk words can result in your account
being blocked from future submissions.

******
12 April 2014
10
Excelente pelican DECed el Principia hast el Fin, para Nada abroad y
Tine Una My Bean tram, Gran mescal entrée Una pelican dramatic, grands
actress, My Bean historian y con arguments My Valida en Si historian.
Gran actuation DE Tim Robbins y Morgan Freeman, beans locations, Buenos
personages Como DE Laos villains, present el synonym DE la generosity y
el comparison. Una pelican My recommendable para toads las evades y
gusto's, no Tine Ninon tip DE language o vocabulary u offensive para
nadir, maestro cert reloaded DE las situations Que SE Vivien en la
Mayor DE parishioners DE Tod el mind y maestro Que con Algol
insignificant o pique SE peen realizer grands coses en base AL ingénue
DE Una persona.

******
11 April 2014
9
A classic suspenseful film with one of the more clever stories that
I've ever seen. It's even more surprising it was written by Stephen
King. He's well known for his horror stories but this was completely
different from his usual work of masterpieces. It is a definite must
watch on your list. Tim Robbins has a performance of a lifetime and
this movie propelled Morgan Freeman to the superstar he is today. A lot
of twist and turns in the plot and all the supporting characters were
amazing as well. Even with the bad guys, you really do invest each and
every one of them and the film just builds truly memorable characters
through the whole movie. It definitely goes down as one the most
classic films ever made.

******
11 April 2014
6
It's a well executed movie with a wholesome message. It falls more in
to the category of movies with lots of heart and good performances.
Besides the warden and Freeman and Robbins, the performances were
adequate but forgettable. The reason I gave it a six is because it's
not really challenging. It is conventional as far as style and content.
This is not a bad thing because it does use convention effectively.
Clearly the movie has touched a lot of people. It is more effective
than the source material in terms of getting it's point across. The
Stephen King short story did not have as much impact and the
embellishments that Frank Darabont added (like the sewer scene)
definitely added to the emotional content of the story.

******
10 April 2014
8
I had to dig this out of my old media library and watch it again. I've
been finding myself doing that a lot more recently. Although I think it may be a bit too long, its great for a rainy night
flick. Freeman and Robbins performances are fantastic. Gotta love their
relationship and how well they work together. Not quite on the same level as The Godfather as some have suggested but
very well written.Morgan Freeman is definitely one of my favorite actors. I have not seen
a performance yet by him that I have been disappointed in. Can't wait
to dig out another and settle into my favorite recliner again.Happy watching!

******
10 April 2014
10
All Time Great Movie - rom Andy's arrival on the prison bus to the
film's end, we see only how others see him - Red, who becomes his best
friend, Brooks the old librarian, the corrupt Warden Norton, guards and
prisoners. Red is our surrogate. He's the one we identify with, and the
redemption, when it comes, is Red's. We've been shown by Andy's example
that you have to keep true to yourself, not lose hope, bide your time,
set a quiet example and look for your chance. "I guess it comes down to
a simple choice, really," he tells Red. "Get busy livin' or get busy
dyin'."The key to the film's structure, I think, is that it's not about its
hero, but about our relationship with him - our curiosity, our pity,
our admiration. If Andy had been the heroic center, bravely enduring,
the film would have been conventional, and less mysterious. But we
wonder about this guy. Did he really kill those two people? Why does he
keep so much to himself? Why can he amble through the prison yard like
a free man on a stroll, when everyone else plods or sidles?People like excitement at the movies, and titles that provide it do
well. Films about "redemption" are approached with great wariness; a
lot of people are not thrilled by the prospect of a great film - it
sounds like work. But there's a hunger for messages of hope, and when a
film offers one, it's likely to have staying power even if it doesn't
grab an immediate audience."The Shawshank Redemption" premiered at the Toronto Film Festival in
September 1994, and opened a few weeks later. It got good reviews but
did poor business (its $18 million original gross didn't cover costs;
it took in only another $10 million after winning seven Oscar
nominations, including best picture).

******
9 April 2014
9
one of the best movies i have seen so far...... it keeps u intact with
the movie and motivates to not give up on your life... the life has not
ended yet..... one can always learn to pick themselves up... all you
need is to have a backup and you can live peacefully your upcoming life
in any part of the world without hiding.... as for the main character,
he has played the role from his heart and it suits him the role .... as
of Morgan freeman he is an excellent actor who bought a life in the
characters life. if there had been any other actor in place of him the
role would have gone in vain but, Morgan freeman- hats off.. this is a
must watch movie by any age group of people and will definitely
motivate you towards the way of living

******
8 April 2014
8
very nice movie i liked it very much, it hold me all the time in
tension! i liked all the characters and Morgan Freeman is one of my
favorite actors, especially after this movie its a great movie i
recommend to anyone who hasn't watched it to do it because it is one
very moving movie with numerous amazing scenes it is one not to be
missed we live one life so this should be watched usually freeman makes
only good and moving movies but this is one of his best so i am glad i
watched it i didn't lose my time and i look forward to more movies like
this and more movies with the great one Morgan Freeman, it was truly
amazing stuff keep it up

******
7 April 2014
10
Such a beautiful film, keeping the viewer constantly invested in the
stories of the characters, their struggles with coping with prison life
and the what the world outside has become.I could write pages and pages on reasons why this film works so well,
but I need a few days just to wrap my head around it all.The one thing that I think could have been improved, just personally,
is to leave a more ambiguous ending. When Red is talking about how he
hopes he will be able to cross the border and see Andy again, connoting
the whole ending theme of the film and the bus drives into the
distance.That's were they should have left it. Forget the end scene on the beach
where they embrace, lovely and uplifting, sure, but too kind. Leaving
it with the bus making the viewer hopeful that they will be reunited
would have given a much more powerful message.Regardless, this is still a truly astounding film.

******
7 April 2014
10
And I truly mean that. When I first saw this film, I was blown
away.With superb acting, superb story, perfect emotion and tone, and an
incredible twist ending that still amazes me, this film is completely
and utterly perfect. The film speaks of hope, and the film's two main
characters debate throughout the movie about it. One character believes
that, in prison, hope is dangerous, and that it should not be used
because it will simply make life tougher. Another character believes
that hope is needed, because it helps you to keep pushing for a better
tomorrow when one does not appear to be in sight.While very engaging and immensely entertaining, this film would not be
held to such high regards if not for the twist ending, which is one of
the greatest movie endings of all time, in my opinion. If the ending is
merely average, this film would simply be considered good, possibly
great, but not the masterpiece that it is today. And, watching it
repeatedly makes the film even better, because experiencing the events
that occur within the story makes the ending even greater.I can't speak for everybody, but this is a film that I can watch over
and over again, and love it more each time I watch it. And, while I
simply talked about the ending this entire review, that is not all that
makes this film incredible. However, I will not waste any more of your
time talking about how wonderful this film is. And please do not waste
any of your own time. Find a way to see this movie as ASAP. It will be
time well spent, and you will certainly see it multiple more times.

******
6 April 2014
10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.Frank Darabont didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special
effects to get us to love this film, the narration and the acting does
that for him. Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
4 April 2014
9
this movie is great thank you all cast thanks for freeman good job good
luck man i'm from Iran 1 more good luck for all castis an American actor, film director, and narrator. Freeman has received
Academy Award nominations for his performances in Street Smart, Driving
Miss Daisy, The Shawshank Redemption and Invictus, and won the Best
Supporting Actor Oscar in 2005 for Million Dollar Baby. He has also won
a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award. Freeman has
appeared in many other box office hits, including Unforgiven, Glory,
Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, Seven, Deep Impact, The Sum of All
Fears, Bruce Almighty, Along Came a Spider, The Dark Knight trilogy,
March of the Penguins and The Lego Movie. He is known for his
distinctively smooth, deep voice. He got his first break as part of the
cast of The Electric Company.

******
2 April 2014
9
Amazing story, great characters and very good actors. But only thing
that i didn't like was make-up, for example Andy gets 20 years older
but that chief guard doesn't older at all and same goes other
characters. Location is great, one of the best movie prisons i ever
seen. So that is reason why i didn't give a ten, but 9,5 would
appropriate. This film definitely deserved at least 3-4 Oscars. Best
Picture, Best Actor in a Leading Role and Best Writing, Screenplay
Based on Material Previously Produced or Published. Best Actor in a
Supporting Role nomination at least. Finnish name for this movie
terrible, it spoils the entire movie. One of the greatest stories of
all time, you have see this.

******
2 April 2014
10
One of the best movies that I've seen for a long time. Although for me
The Godfather is the best movie of all time. But, this movie has a
great unique story which makes it so interesting.I really like this movie, because it does show you that the system can
make a mistake just like everyone can. All people make mistakes and
since the government is run by humans of course there are going to be
flaws. I had watched this movie for the first time with my dad and I
loved watching it since. It does show that when you are determined you
can do anything you put your mind to. I think anyone who likes movies
about prison or even about the judicial system will love this film.

******
1 April 2014
10
When this movie was released on video, yes VHS, my brother told my mom
to watch it. So my mother asked me to watch it with her, most of the
stuff she had me watch were all good but I heard how long it was. I was
hesitant at first. I thought I would be bored as hell. After the movie
was over I could not believe how good it was. One of my favorites then
and remains in my top 5 movies today. If anybody hasn't seen the movie
then... 1) Where the hell have you been? Living under a rock? 2) Watch
it already! The direction, acting, locations and everything about this
film is just amazing. Brings a huge smile to my face whenever this
movie comes on.

******
1 April 2014
10
For Foucault, the prison is a creation, that is, in fact, an innovation
perfected by reason of punishment since according to him, it was
established with the aim of equipping a formation of more affective and
usable individuals in society. This same instrument of punishment,
which is also an institution of kidnapping, it is contemplated in the
movie "The Shawshank Redemption". In the film, one realizes that
prison, as Foucault argued, is contradictory. This institution of
kidnapping, which is a reflection of modern society, has a higher
re-educative than punitive effect. What can be observed when one of the
characters gets his freedom after spending 50 years in prison, he,
however, was not successful during its process of adaptation to the
external mode of life and society, eventually undermining the very
life.

******
31 March 2014
10
Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a city banker, wrongfully convicted of
murdering his wife and her lover. He is sent to Shawshank Prison in
1947 and receives a double life sentence for the crime. Andy forms an
unlikely friendship with "Red" (Morgan Freeman), the man who knows how
to get things. Andy faces many trials in prison, but forms an alliance
with the wardens because he is able to use his banking experience to
help the corrupt officials amass personal fortunes and the story
unfolds from thereThe Shawshank Redemption is an aesthetic adaptation of a much repeated
cliché 'where there's a will, there's a way'. It is a monumental piece
of art that can chill, thrill, excite and rejoice any type of audience.
It renders a remarkable story of hope, trust, courage, determination
and friendship while at the same time exploring the not-so-pleasant
themes of corruption and police brutality.

******
31 March 2014
10
This movie the most one of the most greatest movies of all time in my
opinion. It features great story, great characters as well as a amusing
and sad plot. There are some sad moments in the movie like when the old
librarian hung himself because he couldn't live outside of the big
house and so on. And there is some feel good moments like when Red got
released and when Andy escaped from the prison after twenty years. And
it was very frustrating when the student Andy was teaching got shoot
because it would prove Andy innocent and for him to be set free. Andy
tries his best to fit into Shawshank prison by making little stone
statues and a chess set. Where does he get the stone you ask? Well you
have to watch it and find out because it is the most genius plan that
any prisoner has come up with to escape Shawshank. In conclusion I
would absolutely recommend this to any fan of cinema, Steven King,
drama, comedy or tragedy then this film is the best for you.

******
31 March 2014
9
I like that part when it turns out to be an action movie. And now, some
Lorem Ipsum to make the review longer:But I must explain to you how all this mistaken idea of denouncing
pleasure and praising pain was born and I will give you a complete
account of the system, and expound the actual teachings of the great
explorer of the truth, the master-builder of human happiness. No one
rejects, dislikes, or avoids pleasure itself, because it is pleasure,
but because those who do not know how to pursue pleasure rationally
encounter consequences that are extremely painful. Nor again is there
anyone who loves or pursues or desires to obtain pain of itself,
because it is pain, but because occasionally circumstances occur in
which toil and pain can procure him some great pleasure. To take a
trivial example, which of us ever undertakes laborious physical
exercise, except to obtain some advantage from it? But who has any
right to find fault with a man who chooses to enjoy a pleasure that has
no annoying consequences, or one who avoids a pain that produces no
resultant pleasure?On the other hand, we denounce with righteous indignation and dislike
men who are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasure of
the moment, so blinded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and
trouble that are bound to ensue; and equal blame belongs to those who
fail in their duty through weakness of will, which is the same as
saying through shrinking from toil and pain. These cases are perfectly
simple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour, when our power of
choice is untrammelled and when nothing prevents our being able to do
what we like best, every pleasure is to be welcomed and every pain
avoided. But in certain circumstances and owing to the claims of duty
or the obligations of business is will frequently occur that pleasures
have to be repudiated and annoyances accepted. The wise man therefore
always holds in these matters to this principle of selection: he
rejects pleasures to secure other greater pleasures, or else he endures
pains to avoid worse pains.

******
31 March 2014
10
In 1994 I saw Pulp Fiction in the theater 5 times. I was obsessed with
it. Still am...it's my #2, and on occasion, #1. But there was another
film I saw multiple times in the theater in '94 - The Shawshank
Redemption.And this one, hardly anyone saw in the theater. Nobody really knew
about it, until all of a sudden it was nominated for Best Picture and
lots more Oscars. But honestly no one in the world thought it would
win, I'm sure the Vegas odds were laughable. And of course Forrest Gump
overshadowed both Shawshank & Pulp Fiction. So Shawshank was my film for years, I found it - randomly at my local
theater. I owned it on VHS, I watched it incessantly. It's been my
favorite film for 20 years. It's well known it gained a cult following on VHS. But IMDb really put
it on the map. And IMDb is to be thanked for the last 7 or 8 years, of
idiots who've just come into the film recently claiming it's "a trendy
film to claim as your favorite." I want to get physically violent with
people who say that. Rather, it's trendy for idiots to say it's trendy
to love Shawshank.It doesn't matter. Shawshank is timeless. It is so layered, so thick &
dense with ideas & emotions, subtleties & nuance & little moments that
are gigantic. Watching Shawshank is a spiritual experience, a journey
that never gets old. It's a drug.God, I just saw IMDb is getting close to racking up 1,200,000 votes on
Shawshank. And 9.3. You cannot argue with that. It cuts across
cultures, sexes, and races. Unbelievable miracle of a film, created by sunlight itself.

******
28 March 2014
10
Over all excellent movie, Truly keeps you captivated throughout the
whole film and you become invested in the characters. The characters
have so much charisma, the impact they have on each other through out
is amazing to see. There is a greater meaning behind the actions and
ending which gets engraved into your thoughts, even after finishing the
film one can only walk themselves through the film in memory and try to
make sense of it but in reality you'd have to watch the film twice just
to notice how much more brilliant it really is than you actually
thought! The actors were no doubt a great pick, the role really toned
in on each actor's strengths and magnified it so the character was more
visible than the mask. The story, with no doubt, plays out very
smoothly and the consistent flow it has simply allows you to watch it
without getting bored or impatient even once.

******
28 March 2014
10
I have never heard about this movie in fact and it was very surprising
to see such 'not known' movie at top of the list and that too above
GODFATHERS. For me this was the only reason to watch Shawshank
Redemption initially but now it is my favorite 'watch again and again'
movie. Reasons ? Well . (1) Simple but outstanding Storyline with so
many twists and turns. (2) All twists and turns are natural and
logical. You find them somewhere near to you but fail to detect till
they are revealed on the screen. This is one of the most interesting
feature of this movie. (3) Direction is per excellence as may be
expected from any great movie. (4) Characters and Acting: Outstanding.
(5) Narration by Morgan Freeman. (6) Music: suffice to mention the
harmonica played when Red approaches the oak tree he was searching for.
(7) One of the most loving ending that leaves you in a state of virtual
ecstasy. You leave the screen smiling from within. In fact all great
movies contains the features I have mentioned above but what
distinguishes Shawshank Redemption from other great movies, in my view,
and what makes it most deserving for No. 1 spot, is, undoubtedly, the
last 20 minutes of the movie that is pure ecstasy that leads to the
most satisfying ending.

******
28 March 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and
directed by Frank Darabont. starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption. the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne. a banker who
spends 19 years in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife
and her lover despite his claims of innocence. During his time at the
prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, and
finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him
in his money laundering operation.The majority of the score consists of
dark piano music, which plays along the main character's role at
Shawshank.

******
27 March 2014
10
Honestly one of the greatest movies i have ever seen. I really would
declare that this movie is one of the greatest ever made. Morgan
Freeman is one of my favorite actors and when you ad Tim Robbins into
the mix, how you go wrong right? Loved the chemistry between them and
the surprise twist at the end is just great. I first saw this movie in
my Freshman year of high school in my pop culture class and I should
have hit myself for not seeing it sooner. This movie really makes me
want to pursue a career in film. Its well Directed, the script is
great, and the actors played the characters perfectly. I can honestly
say that i have not seen a better movie.

******
26 March 2014
8
I will get straight to the point. This movie was made with very careful
attention to detail. According to the Formula of life (Time + Effort =
Value) It fits perfectly. Unfortunately the fault I found with this
movie was in the thought process behind the acting. I was never sure of
where any of the actors stood with themselves or each other meaning the
movie's great twist at the end had no meaning. Acting only ever needs
to be amazing but the story needs to be exceptional because in real
life people don't act extraordinarily its the story of peoples lives
which touches us the most because everyone can relate or compare their
story the acting is just according to the actor. But other then that it
was interesting to watch not so much enjoyable which is always sad.

******
26 March 2014
9
This film certainly tells about how one's talent can be his tool to
survive even in worst situation and if you use your talent, you may end
up well.This is why liked this one.The movie is very well written and
maintains the mystery and curiosity till the end.The title justifies
the story and a kind of reveal message about the plot of the film. The
film lacks a strong female character which would have spiced up things
more. The film have some comic timings, limited only to few scenes.The portraying of the characters has been well lived in the story and
thus make it a must watch movie of all the time.No doubt it is going to
be in number one for a long time.

******
26 March 2014
10
One of the best movies ever made. I have watched quite a lot of prison
movies but this one takes the prize. I have watched this movie over 4
times the past year and every time the sheer dramatic impact of this
movie gets me, regardless that i have watched it so many times. I'm not
an expert on films i just enjoy watching them, and in my opinion this
is the best movie i have ever watched in my life. Andy Dufrense's
struggle as innocent man being imprisoned for 19 years before escaping
from Shawshank and finnally claiming his well deserved redemption over
all those hard years, some of them including pain emotional and
physical but also one of the greatest virtues in humanity, Friendship.

******
25 March 2014
9
(This comment contains a little summary of the film, I didn't mean to
spoil the movie for you, but when you are afraid of me spoiling the
movie don't read the review.)The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movies ever made in my
opinion. I've seen many films and this one really comes out. I think
this movie is 'timeless'. It's an old movie, made in 1994 (I wasn't
even born) but it doesn't feel like that when you are watching it.
Alright I have to admit that you can see it on the quality of the film
and on other things too. It isn't HD or something like that but it
gives the film a special character that it needs to be so good. It also
doesn't have all those special effects like in Life of Pi, with the
tiger Richard Parker who is fully made with the computer, or in the
Avengers. So it isn't spectacular in that way. I think the movie is
spectacular in the way it's built up and in its plot line.Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is locked up in the Shawshank State
Penitentiary because he is accused of murdering his wife and her lover.
In prison he gets to know smuggler Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman)
and soon they become friends. Red smuggles a rock hammer in prison for
Andy to make 'chess pieces'. He also gets several posters and other
stuff. He makes his chess pieces, but that's not the only reason for
buying his hammer. He also has some other plans. First Andy works in
the washing room and sometimes he gets raped by Bogs. One day the
prison needs some men to work on the roof and with a little skill Andy
can arrange some beers for his fellows. They start to like him and they
accept him as a friend. Slightly Andy works himself up so he can do the
accountancy of the director of the prison. He decides to swindle the
director and he makes up an whole new person with every legit paper a
human needs. After the release of Brooks Andy takes over the library
and he gives it a new boost. He receives new money for books and he can
expand it. His life in prison goes well but he doesn't lose his hope
and faith in a better future even though Red has warned him that hope
is a dangerous thing. When you want to know the end and the rest of the
film you really need to buy and watch it because after the first time
there is a big chance that you will love the film and that you are
going to watch it more than once. I think that every single bit of the film perfectly fits. The music,
the photography, the story There is a reason why this film is standing
on number 1 in the IMDb top 250 and why it has 7 Oscar nominations.

******
25 March 2014
10
its different form other movie.... also have a unique story,....my
favorite actors are Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins.......so them take
this story to a successful movie in the plant and make this movie to
world best movie of all kind.....also commencement is bit boring ......
he was a good man however he had a mistake to her wife.....he attempt
to murder his wife for bad behavior ....then he failed to prove it is a
mistake of angry at the courthouse......unfortunately he went to prison
for until death.... finally he figure out to escape from the prison
..... he got a mastermind plan to escape form the prison...he work hard
to success this plan..... this is the Summary of this story .....i
recommended all one to watch this movie .....every one must watch the
whole story it is a marvelous story.....best movie ever
watched..thanks!!!!

******
24 March 2014
7
So for a great movie i provide you with a simple and short review. This
is a film worth a watch with amazing story-line, drama and performance.
Morgan Freeman made it up as a cast.But i can not say that this is a best or even a better movie at all. It
is a usually movie with a catchy, just and simple plot. This film is
equipped with nice and beautiful plus emotional and interesting plot
with amazing direction. So this is a movie that appeals nearly everyone, and that is why it is
so over-rated but that should not mean it is a all time best movie. It
is a simple and honest movie which is great but yes over-rated.

******
24 March 2014
9
I'm not one to judge a book by it's cover, or in this case a film, but
I had no interest in watching this film. This was mainly due to the
fact that my boyfriend loves it and we are usually on opposite ends of
the spectrum when it comes to choosing films. But this is the one film
that we can agree on. It has everything that he likes, (crime, violence
and rebellion) whilst also having everything that I love in a film (a
well thought out story, unexpected turns of events, great actors).
Films are like a passion to me, and The Shawshank Redemption is in a
league all of it's own. Tim Robbins created such a character that we
all think we know but his deception and rebellion towards the end of
the film intrigues me and makes me respect Andy so much more. "Fear can
hold you prisoner, hope can set you free", the tag-line of the film
holds a deep significance as nobody suspected a thing from Andy whilst
the years passed by in prison, yet his ulterior motives fuelled by hope
helped him in his quests!

******
24 March 2014
10
How do you define perfection in a movie? For me it's a combination of
direction, script, performances and all the technical aspects of making
a film, so that the viewer can be transported elsewhere. This is how I
define the Shawshank Redemption. If you haven't seen it, you can be
surprised by the end. But even when you see it again and again, it
doesn't matter if you already know the end, because the journey is as
much (if not more) enjoyable. It's an amazing movie, with great
performances from Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman and all supporting cast.
They make you feel happy, and sad, and laugh, and cry. Movies like this
don't come very often, and should be enjoyed by all. Very highly
recommended!

******
23 March 2014
9
This film is truly a work of art a master piece one of the greats. This
film is not just so amazing because of the amazing story (based of the
Stephen king book) but also because of the amazing acting and
directing. It's about Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is a banker that
gets convicted of double murder and is sentenced to life term at
shaw-shank were he meats Ellis read redding ( Morgan freeman ) who
picks him as the new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure
manly to the fact that they have a corrupt warden (Bob Gunton),
sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and inmates
who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or beatings to
insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the hope of the
truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him to prevail
behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favour with the wardens
and guards.

******
23 March 2014
10
For the first time watchers the story starts with a lame and feels like
boring. But it gradually picks up the pace after 15-20 Min's and every
moment will be best. Tim Robbins acting is the best. The moral of this
movie is always "Hope for the Best" Best will always come. You need to
be a patience for it.If you watch the movie carefully there is a very good twist at the end
which is not expected at all. Some of the famous TV series like prison
break are based on this movie itself.Direction by Frank Darabont was simply superb. I can say that morgan
freeman has given his career best performance in this movie.I would rate this 10 out of 10. Fantastic and all time top 1 movie.

******
23 March 2014
10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
22 March 2014
10
this is a must see in my opinion, a truly timeless film. One of my
favorites of all time. This film is what started my deep respect for
Morgan Freeman as not only an actor but a narrator. You are doing
yourself a serious disservice by not seeing the Shawshank Redemption.
trust me, watch it all the way through, right now, I've never heard
anyone say they didn't like this film.I don't want to say anything about it because i don't want to ruin it,
see it for your self.now.right now.

******
22 March 2014
10
Misery and Stand By Me were the best adaptations up until this one, now
you can add Shawshank to that list.This is simply one of the best films ever made and I know I am not the
first to say that and I certainly won't be the last. The standing on
the IMDb is a true barometer of that. #3 as of this date and I'm sure
it could be number 1. So I'll just skip all the normal praise of the
film because we all know how great it is. But let me perhaps add that
what I find so fascinating about Shawshank is that Stephen King wrote
it.King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the
Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his
best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was
brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned
Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes
onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to
understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully. What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it
conveys. It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim
Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he
never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man
again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane,
but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a
different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and
I don't know if there will again.I'm not going to say any more about this film, it has already been
said, but just suffice to say that I am glad that Forrest Gump won best
picture in 94. I would have been equally glad if Pulp Fiction or
Shawshank would have won. It is that good of a movie and one that will
be appreciated for years to come.

******
21 March 2014
10
Shawshank is unique in the genre and unlocked a new potential for movie
makers to break the inherent confines of a prison picture. This was
demonstrated later on with Darabont once again redefining the prison
picture in The Green Mile - a classic in its own right. So why is
Shawshank so popular and tops many best movie lists? Not hard to figure
out. The entertainment value is high and our empathy is heightened for
Andy and Red. A lot of deserved attention over the years has gone to
Freeman, but Robbins carries his part just as well. We have to remember
the Andy character is somewhat that of a semi-tough geek, which is a
tough balancing act to portray - unless part of your own personality is
much like that. Robbins impresses me for this and meets the
expectation. But I think Freeman's character allows more scope for
exceeding an expectation which is probably why Freeman is lauded a bit
more. So Shawshank, after all these years, still awaits like a trap to
ensnare new devotees. Another sign of its worthiness - it pulls you in
quickly.

******
20 March 2014
9
It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but
"The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because
it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us vicarious
experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and
looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in
the story of men who have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper
than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship
and hope.Darabont constructs the film to observe the story, not to punch it up
or upstage it. Upstaging, in fact, is unknown in this film; the actors
are content to stay within their roles, the story moves in an orderly
way, and the film itself reflects the slow passage of the decades.
"When they put you in that cell," Red says, "when those bars slam home,
that's when you know it's for real. Old life blown away in the blink of
an eye. Nothing left but all the time in the world to think about it."
Watching the film again, I admired it even more than the first time I
saw it. Affection for good films often grows with familiarity, as it
does with music. Some have said life is a prison, we are Red, Andy is
our redeemer. All good art is about something deeper than it admits.

******
19 March 2014
10
Few would say, a little slow in the starting, but have patience and you
are here for a feast. The movie gets better every minute. The ending is
terrific and I could not think of a better way to end the movie. Tim
Robbins, man take a bow. !! _/\_ Morgan Freeman, always been good. I
realized at the end that the movie didn't have a female role to spice
it up. But you wouldn't feel the need for that. Also, the hot posters
would do the job. I regret that I watched this movie 20 years after its
release. This is truly an epic movie. Now, since the review needs to be
of 10 lines minimum, I had to end it by praising the movie once again.
Keep calm and do watch this.

******
17 March 2014
10
This movie has all of the aspects you would expect of a great film.
Based on Stephen King's short story, this tale of hope and loss,
friendship and betrayal is nothing shy of magical. Your heart bleeds
for Andy through his troubles with the sisters and then sings when he
is finally free. You feel the hatred for the warden and the screws,
while crying for the lost life of Brooks. I have seen so many different
movies in my life and can honestly say, 100%, without a doubt that this
beautifully crafted piece of art is hands down my all time favorite. I
can watch Tim Robbins stroll through the yard and listen to Morgan
Freeman narrate over and over. If you came to my house right new with a
bag of popcorn and some wine with a copy of this in your hand, we would
be besties for life.

******
16 March 2014
8
This Film has a Strange History. Nominated for Seven Oscars (winning
none) the Movie was not a Box-Office Hit and Faded pretty much into
Obscurity as an Arty Film with two Lead Actors Delivering Standard Good
Work, but Nothing to get Excited about.But Something Happened that is Really Unexplainable. People got Excited
about it. No one seems to know Why or What Manifested said Excitement,
it just Happened. A Resurrection to become one of the most Beloved
Movies Ever. Managing to Steadily Climb to "God-Like" Status among Best
of Lists and Fanatic Praise.It is a Fine Movie. A Throwback Movie. A more or less Standard
Storytelling of Human Perseverance and Hope against Outrageous
Misfortune. A Feel Good Film that has made a lot of People Feel Good.
Nothing Really Out of the Ordinary Happens as far as Prison Dramas go.
But what does Happen is done with such Subtlety and Pathos that the
Long Sentence of the Running Time goes by Effortlessly. This is a Great Movie that Never tries to be Great. it's just a Smooth,
Entertaining, and Effective Personal Prison Drama with some Social
Messaging and Character Explorations. The Usual Prison Sledgehammer
Approach gives way to a Rock Hammer. Small and Light, but it gets the
Job Done.

******
14 March 2014
10
This movie is the Masterpiece and a benchmark in every aspect of film
making. I feel that movie of this level is not possible to make in this
civilization again. I postponed watching this movie for almost one year
thinking it being a prison based movie, how WRONG i was cannot be
explained in words. I actually saw this movie by pausing and listening
again and again. Direction screenplay cinematography & acting all are
molded, seems as if god himself gave a hand into it and result is THE
BEST CREATION ever in film making. As movie finished for the first time
i saw all cast and names of everyone who made this masterpiece. This
movie is a must must watch if you are least lover of movies.

******
14 March 2014
9
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
14 March 2014
10
Watching this movie literally changed my life. I know you might
thinking I'm one of those guys who don't have a life & spend (or may i
say)waste valuable time watching movies. let's agree to disagree
friends, OK I know there are some movies that after watching you asked
yourself was it worth it? & there are some movies that awesome to
watch, doesn't matter what genre it belongs. And then there is "The
Shawshank Redemption". I recommend every person should watch this movie
at least once in the lifetime to find the true beauty of life. To
embrace life with every breath, to admire every moment passes over time
that we too busy to enjoy. We often take our life as granted not
knowing that the world may or may not be so beautiful without some key
things. this movie can show you what yours.

******
11 March 2014
10
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
11 March 2014
9
When I'm talking to my friends about movies, we always talk about this
one. Because everyone should have seen it. It is a must see movie and
you won't be disappointed. The Shawshank Redemption is one of my
favorite movies with a great story and acting work. I admire everyone
that helped working on this movie because they did a really good job. I
love everything about the movie, from the beginning till the end. This
movie is a movie that reach you when watching it, it gives you special
feelings about the story and makes you think about it. If you want to
know the details and why I write this, just watch the movie. I can only
say one thing to everyone who reads this, Watch the movie! And you will
feel the same way about the movie as me.

******
11 March 2014
10
I love this movie, a masterpiece, one of the best adaptations of a
Stephen King book with me and has unexpected miracles. The actors are
brilliant, I have not seen a movie of this quality makes. Morgan
Freeman stars in one of his greatest roles, and Robbins, no doubt, done
his best acting. Who has not seen this wasting time. Hopefully the
studios and producers stop making movies just to raise money, and be
dedicated to do this kind of movies that are in the story. No wonder
this movie was the head of the ranking 250 of IMDb. Again, I recommend
you see this movie, so no movies today.Thanks for this excellent IMDb
page is very complete and is full of information, the application is
also excellent for mobile phones.

******
10 March 2014
10
I regret that I only watched this movie 5 years ago because it is a
masterpiece!! It doesn't deserve a 10/10, it deserves an 11/10.It's about a banker who spends 19 years in Shawshank State Prison for
the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence.
He befriends a fellow inmate (Morgan Freeman)The whole movie you will be captivated. The acting is superb.. The two
leads Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are incredible. The other
prisoners are excellent too and Gil Robbins is super special.I have seen this movie so many times and still to this day every time I
watch it, I am in awe.Powerful, poignant, thought-provoking and finally irresistibly
uplifting. Spectacular movie!!

******
10 March 2014
10
Wow!!! Great plot. This movie won't get old for generations. It
deserves No.1 every year... Lots of movies releasing all over the world
based on prison break, but none of them can beat masterpieces like "The
Shawshank Redemption" and "The Great Escape". When "Warden Norton"(Bob
Gunton) tries to open Bible, Andy Dufresne handles the situation. This
scene rolls again in all our mind, like mind blowing in the climax. Of
course it's disappointing that other master-pieces like pulp_fiction
and forest gump released in same year which made "The Shawshank
Redemption" ended up with no Oscar's. What an extraordinary plot! This
never gets old.

******
9 March 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption in my opinion is the best movie out there. No
other movie will show you such a thought provoking, well made,
extraordinary acted, brilliant script than this film! A story of hope and redemption seems cliché and maybe even boring but
this tale will never bore you. You'll fall in love with the characters.
Morgan Freeman is again at his best, and Tim Robbins gives one of his
best performances next to his in Mystic River. You can watch this movie
over and over again and you'll still love it and it will feel like your
first time seeing it. The movie is filled with passion that it will
make you cry (coming from someone who never cries), it's soulful and
emotional yet still gives you action. It's a rare gem that you'll fall
in love with, I definitely did!

******
9 March 2014
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and
directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who
spends 19 years in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife
and her lover despite his claims of innocence. During his time at the
prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, and
finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him
in his money laundering operation.Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its
budget, the film received multiple award nominations and favorable
reviews from critics for its acting and realism. It has since enjoyed a
remarkable life on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray. It was
included in the American Film Institute's 100 Years...100 Movies 10th
Anniversary

******
7 March 2014
10
It is a movie that enthralls my mind and soul, as every time i thought
about each & every moment of this wonderful movie. I say this movie is a journey, not because its a long movie, but it
explains a definition of an act of HOPE. Yes, hope is the sweetest
weapon of your arsenal that wins you unconquered battles of your life.
Of course, it inspires you to danger the risks in achieving something,
but yet you go for it.A fascinating story with an unbelievable & realistic twist that betters
the moral & belief in yourself. Mind boggling performances from the
actors and a remarkable direction that did 100% justice to story.A TRUE CLASSIC............

******
6 March 2014
10
Stay human , no matter what .If fate turns to you so that you do not expect , and even with all the
circumstances that do not depend on you , stay a man , do not lose
sanity , live and do anything to change or embellish their existence .So did Andy Dyufreyn .Story and screenplay , deserve a lot of positive emotions , deserved to
admire, but not expressed in words. Extra words here and just not
appropriate.Game actors - such as it should be - fully converge with the way
emotions, feelings, human located there. True game Thiam Robbins
remembered monotonous, is neutral to what is happening around, but it
is complemented by its role, nor for the Reds, not for whites.The only thing in the film caused no understanding , this is how one
picture , originally shabby appearance , could have hung for a couple
of decades ? Of course it carries its own meaning, but something had to
change here .

******
6 March 2014
10
This film describes prison life in Shawshank prison, but not as we are
used to this. So not a prison yard with rival gangs where they should
be. as cool as possible the describes precisely the deep friendship
that can arise. In this case, the friendship between an elderly black
man who for 20 years has down and a young, intelligent and quiet man
who just unfairly life is serving. This young man, Andy Dufresne, from
throughout Another type of wood cut from the rest. He founded a
library, carves chess and teaches at the less gifted prisoners. I think
it's a beautiful film: Quiet and solid shot. emotional moments and
finally have a good feel-good movie.I also find it very beautiful as they describe how the prison Initially
a hell. But that at the end of time habituation occurs. After some more
time, one will be dependent on the walls and does one properly warn the
outside world.

******
4 March 2014
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont.

******
3 March 2014
10
It's been 15 years since I watched this movie for the first time. Back
then, in my youth, several aspects of this movie made me think a lot:
the value of true friendship, the injustices in life, the importance of
not giving up on your dreams and, the most powerful of all, always have
hope and make your thoughts and actions rely on that hope. I also
remember thinking that, while some characters got what they deserved,
others were wronged in a way that annoyed me too much. That was the
reason that I liked but not loved this movie in the first time.After that first time, I watched this movie at least another five
times. Today, 15 years later, I can say that the injustices in the
movie are not only bearable but also completely necessary. This is the
real magic about this movie: you can find good in murderers, evil in
wardens, friendship in a deceitful place, justice in injustices and
hope in despair. Those ingredients are responsible for making this
story so believable. This movie is capable of captivating the viewer
through the natural bond created with the protagonist, in such way
that, in the end, when everything went to despair, the viewer learns
that hope is the only thing that anyone should not abandon. Yes, this
movie is a true masterpiece.

******
3 March 2014
8
It is a film that can be watched over and over again, however, it is
very predictable and slightly dated...I would recommend ordering in, kicking back and enjoying the movie on a
big screen TV with surround sound audio. The mood can get to be a
little deep, so if you have any un-mended wounds deep within your soul,
make sure to have an endless supply of tissues at hand. It is a film
about beating the odds, about injustice and retribution. It isn't
really a movie about payback as much as it is about looking inside
oneself, seeing the good in life and the digging in of their heels when
circumstances become seemingly overwhelming and impossible. The story almost follows the classic structure of the hero's journey
and manages to hit every emotional nerve on the way. There is one other
movie that I can think of in all of cinema history that has managed to
pull that off and it is the princess bride. The princess bride is very
light hearted and is nothing like The Shawshank Redemption except for
the fact that it is multi faceted and emotional.

******
3 March 2014
10
This is a amazing movie. It is one of my favorite movies. It depicts
the story of Andy Dufresne, a famous banker who go to Shawshank for
murder of his wife. This movie depicts friendship of two different
persons having different views, how it grows. He was very intelligent
man as he made his friendship with corrupted Warden of the Prison yet
it was only one sided. In the end, when he escapes from the prison, he
takes down the whole life of Warden and his colleagues. After few days,
his friend Red also gets out of jail and travels to Texas and meet his
friend Andy.As a whole this movie was good and even it is the best. It deserves to
be number 1. I wonder how this movie not get Oscar for Best motion
picture of the year 1994.

******
1 March 2014
10
The movie is fine and delicate with an intriguing story.I would say that it falls within the top 50 best movies ever.The story flows on and never gets boring.It is a film you can see how many times.You will be surprised all the time with ingenious scenes.The acting is world class.The environment and the photo is amazing.One of the top 3 best prison movies.Fun and exciting sad at the same time.A real classic movie and if you have not seen it yet, I can only
congratulate you on something beautiful you have to look forward to.

******
28 February 2014
10
This is my first time writing a review and I don't have a good grammar.
I generally don't watch this type of movie. When I saw part of movie I
decide to finish it. This movie was able to touch my heart. This movie
doesn't have any special effect like most movie. This movie is really
inspiring and is something everyone must see. I really like the story
and the plot, everything fit well in the story and it really touching
for anyone who see it.There are many thing I didn't expect to see like the warden being evil.
In my opinion it seem that money is able anybody. Andy Dufresne is able
to beat him and get free of his chain.This was my first movie that I really like and didn't contain special
effect. It just a simple movie but a good story and with a message for
everyone to know.

******
28 February 2014
10
The story, has 3 power points that make it the best movie ever made.
One is when the young prisoner, Tommy, tells them that he knows the
killer of Dufrense's wife. One when we discover that the whole time
Dufrence was digging the wall; and one when Norton sees the big hole in
the wall. This three points makes it easier for the director to say the
movie's result: hope. The other movies such as The Gosfather don't have
such points; that makes them always "the second movie". Tim Robbins'
playing as Andy Dufrence, is surly one of the most important points
that makes the film like this. I never would understand why they didn't
give any Oscar Awards to him. But also, Morgan Freeman wasn't as good
as should be. his smiles, looked really fake, but there is surly no
problem with the narrating.Freeman's soft deep voice was the best
option for this movie; but in acting, he was just "Normal"; that isn't
enough for a movie like The Shawshank Redemption. In the year 1994,
Shawshank redemption and pulp fiction were both good, but the thing
that makes Shawshank redemption better, are the little strong points,
all over the movie, I insinuated.

******
28 February 2014
10
A must seen classic movie , which will make each and every viewer to
HOPE for the best in their life. Each and every department of this
movie has done a fantastic job. Unlike other movies , based on prison
lives movie gives a new experience of hope and gives a positive energy.
Movie's script has got all basic requirements of a movie such as
suspense , wits, sex, gun shots and so on. Means every one will love
this movie.All the actors had done a marvelous job. Screenplay doesn't
lag anywhere and has a constant pace through out. I really Love this
movie and the plot is perfect, means can be told to all generation even
to the coming generation.

******
28 February 2014
10
I have never watched such a wonderful and nicely plotted movie. It (The
Shawshank Redemption) shows the hope, the dreams of life, hardships you
face in life. While watching, we always move with it with the hope for
best, all the time. Although there is quite a difference between the
characters and the viewers, but we never feel far away that what the
character is doing and what is the feeling of the characters. We always
flow with the waves.This is a simple yet having a deep message inside down the film. the
director didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to
get us to love this film, the narration and the acting does that for
him. This movies should have win all the Oscars awards, I really love
this movie. I have watched a number of times.I think everyone should
watch this movie and keep the rating up all the time, so that i can
remain in top 250. Also please let your friends recommendation about
the movie. This is my all time favorite movie.

******
26 February 2014
10
I know i have been a fool not to watch this amazing for so many years,
and you people wont believe that i saw this movie just last week. I had
heard about this movie before but never got to see it. But finally i
saw and i can say that its one of the best movies you will ever see.The Shawshank Redemption,without a single riot scene or horrific
effect, it tells a slow, gentle story of growth and comes dangerously
close to sounding one of those "triumph of the human spirit" notes. But
most of it is eloquently restrained.An amazing acting by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, and the friendship
between them was just beautiful. And Amazingly written and directed by
Frank Darabont. I just don't know why didn't i see this amazing movie before n delayed
it so late.This is a movie you should never miss n do watch it.

******
26 February 2014
9
Shawshank Redemption is one of those films, where after watching are
happy you invested your time in. The story line is simple, but the way
it is made is terrific. You instantly root for Andy, the main character
because he so likable. Upon watching this film there was so much hype
around it, and I had to know why. Many famous scenes are recreated in
other movies, and you will understand and respect the depth of it.
Morgan Freeman gives a performance of a lifetime as per usual, and
creates a wonderful film alongside Tim Robbins and other cast members.
Frank Darabont clearly wanted to go out a create a masterpiece, and
truly succeeded. There is no way this film can ever be forgotten, see
for yourself.

******
25 February 2014
8
the movie was good but not as expected... movie was slow before
halftime and also later after halftime. characters portrait was
appreciable,life of jail shown was real and cruelty within jail too.I
didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies and
I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day as
I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing. Morgan freeman's acting was good as
usual.Tim Robbins performance was good. cinematography,direction
everything was superb. every character shown in the movie was perfect.
perfect timing of everything. hope to see such movie's in future....

******
25 February 2014
9
The Shawshank Redemption has certainly earned its reputation as one of
the most effective prison movies in cinematic history - as the film,
written and directed by Frank Darabont, contains virtually all of the
tropes and devices that the genre has come to be associated with. The
ensuing inclusion of such familiar elements as the Evil Warden and the
Sadistic Guard are undeniably put to brilliant use by Darabont, with
the end result a piece of work that - aside from a midsection that's
almost egregiously episodic - manages to hold the viewer transfixed
virtually from start to finish. The Shawshank Redemption works not only
as an excellent prison drama,but as a metaphor for overcoming our own
private prisons.

******
23 February 2014
10
This movie will make you think about short life really are. Tim Robins
who play a wrongly prisionized man which spend over 20 years of his
life in prison for something that he did not do. He makes the most of
the situation and even improves the living standard in Shawshank (the
prison). You should also watch this brilliant movie to hear the best
story teller in the world, Morgan Freeman. The way he speaks in a slow
and convincing way, is perfect. It is also a must watch because you
becomes very positive to life after watching it. Suddenly your own
problems does not seem so big anymore. To summerize it, it is a great
movie, with amazing actors performances and a brilliant manuscript and
regi. Do watch it you will not regret it.

******
23 February 2014
10
A friend of mine told me 2 years ago about this film, A said maybe it's
boring but after I seen it I was speechlessThe greatest movie set in a prison I've ever seen! Its full of courage
from Tim Robbins to survive prison and no matter what the differences
between him and Morgan Freeman and all the other prisoners, no matter
what violence comes up, no matter their crimes, no matter what crazy or
illegal things they have to do to survive prison, no matter what the
warden does to Tim Robbins, together prison is awesome and they can
redeem themselves. Movies like this show what would happen if prisoners
accept people's differences and redeem themselves from their crimes and
that's good thing because people don't need to act like idiots in
prison. Despite the graphic violence in this movie in the beginning,
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman used friendship to forget prison and
made each other good people and they were great people! Whoever does
NOT like this movie is a bully and needs lighten up because this is a
light-heart movie of teaching you the lessons of prison.

******
22 February 2014
10
This is my number one favorite movie. I can watch this several times a
year! Shawshank Redemption is a very moving story about hope and the
power of friendship and how far those to things can get you. What makes
this film one of the best ever made is the message it conveys. It is
one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins, has been
sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he never loses hope.
He never gives up his quest to become a free man again. His years of
tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane, but it gives his
mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a different feel to it.
There has never been anything like it before and I don't know if there
will again...

******
21 February 2014
9
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty
- - not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the
subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving
life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off
despair.The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest bus load of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy
turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him
is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing
seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for
murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details
involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality;
all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who
is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes
up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his
term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been
rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out
of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that
he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills
himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on
the outside.Red's narration of the story allows him to speak for all of the
prisoners, who sense a fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives
the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is
not violent, just formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob
Gunton), he is both a challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about
bookkeeping and tax preparation, and before long he's been moved out of
his prison job in the library and assigned to the warden's office,
where he sits behind an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's
ill-gotten gains. His fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes
and pension plans for most of the officials of the local prison system.There are key moments in the film, as when Andy uses his clout to get
some cold beers for his friends who are working on a roofing job. Or
when he befriends the old prison librarian (James Whitmore). Or when he
oversteps his boundaries and is thrown into solitary confinement. What
quietly amazes everyone in the prison -- and us, too -- is the way he
accepts the good and the bad as all part of some larger pattern than
only he can fully see.The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison
drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence,
riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason.
The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption, by Stephen King, which is quite unlike most of King's work.
The horror here is not of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that
flows from the realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have
unreeled in the same unchanging daily prison routine.The director, Frank Darabont, paints the prison in drab grays and
shadows, so that when key events do occur, they seem to have a life of
their own.Andy, as played by Robbins, keeps his thoughts to himself. Red, as
Freeman plays him, is therefore a crucial element in the story: His
close observation of this man, down through the years, provides the way
we monitor changes and track the measure of his influence on those
around him. And all the time there is something else happening, hidden
and secret, which is revealed only at the end."The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may
have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it,
and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There
is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But
mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal
worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a
sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption.

******
20 February 2014
10
Whenever i see Shawshank Redemption at the top of the IMDb top 250, it
gives such a beautiful experience. When i just started following good
movies, and seeing this movie at the top, i watched it. well i liked
this one in the first. but a whole world has turned around. I have
watched whole lot of movies, that varies from that of Hollywood to
other world movies which are just great. But still till present,
Shawshank has not lost any of its aura. it is a beautiful experience
watching this movie. many would review this movie as over-hyped,
overrated and all. i think they are just trying to describe cinematic
experience, but this movie is a Life experience. So that is a point
where they differ. The one who says Shawshank is overrated, might not
say the same about The Green Mile(same director and author). I have
always admired the works of Stephen king, but his works just seemed too
much for movies. Even Stanley Kubrick couldn't quite actually cover The
Shining. We had to wait until Frank Darabont to get a good portrayal of
king's work. and the wait was finally worth it. The green mile is the
next, though it isn't as much high on the rating as this one. Just i
think this movie was one of many which increased my interest in
watching movies. And about the Top position in IMDb, it is absolutely
worth it.

******
19 February 2014
9
an awesome movie i have ever seen... Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption is a novella by Stephen King, from his collection Different
Seasons (1982), subtitled Hope Springs Eternal. It was adapted for the
screen in 1994 as The Shawshank Redemption, which was nominated for
seven Academy Awards in 1994, including Best Picture.[1] In 2009, it
was adapted for the stage as the play The Shawshank Redemption.[2]The novella's plot line is heavily based on God Sees the Truth, But
Waits by Leo Tolstoy. This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick.
It has a great and deep message. This movie has a foundation and just
kept on being built on from their and that foundation is hope.

******
19 February 2014
10
I am just going to keep my review short and won't get into fine
details..With that said.. This movie is probably the most incredible adaptation
film of all time. Everything is just right, the actors, the production,
everything falls in line with the makings of a great movie. If you've never seen this before, I highly recommend you check out this
wonderful film. Even if you aren't a huge fan of the plot, any movie
lover can credit this film with being perfectly well done.As I've said, the chosen actors fit their roles perfectly, they make
the characters come alive to the viewer, which is one criterion for an
excellent movie. The score is great, it is subtle yet draws so much
focus and emotion to the scene, another criterion. The venue filming
location is a personal treasure to me, as I live close-by. Pretty much
every angle of this film can be looked at with pride and example of how
a movie could, and should be produced and directed.

******
18 February 2014
9
There is really not lots of movies that i can really be forgetful, i
see lots of mistakes, and moral things of lots of great movies, because
i -maybe i an bad- analyze everything that is happening around, is
pretty hard, and very remarkable to a movie, to accomplish the sense of
freedom -this has two meanings- that this movie could, i really could
forget about insubstantial problems, at and after watching the movie,
it gives great advice about moral interrogations, and life itself, a
pretty neat movie, authentic, and not boring at all, i wonder how it
have been, without the cultural references that i already knew about
the film. If you have some spare time, what are you waiting for?

******
18 February 2014
10
I saw The Shawshank Redemption only a few weeks ago, while I knew it
was number 1 on IMDb Top 250. Knowing the main idea of the movie, I
couldn't imagine how this movie can be at the top. I watched it on TV
and this was one of those rare films which excited me so much in front
of my TV. I will not talk about the acting or the directing because so
many reviewers did a better review about that before me but I will just
add that what I find so unique to this movie is that he is RIGHT from
the beginning to the end. You feel so moved all along the movie and
when the movie is over I have this impression that it was a movie quiet
"simple" shared with a feeling of having saw something that is a way
higher others movies. And that is what make this movie extraordinary.

******
18 February 2014
10
This movie is based on a novella by Stephen King, but don't let that
put you off. It's not a horror film, rather a thumpingly good ode to
friendship, hope, wit, wiles and wisdom, brimming with crackling
characters and topped with the most twisteroo of twists since The
Crying Game. Found guilty of killing his unfaithful wife and her lover
in a fit of passion, sullen accountant Andy Dufresne (Robbins, casting
off his goofball image to display more layers than the proverbial
onion) is shipped to the Gothic wind-swept corridors of the Shawshank
State Prison for life. It is here the movie gracefully unfolds. With a
beautifully rounded script, writer/director Darabont conjures up a
spellbinding personal odyssey stretching through the years from 1946 to
1967.Dufresne, all the while protesting his innocence, slowly overcomes the
hellfire tortures of the prison system - an unblinking range of
beatings, rapings and abject humiliations - while managing to inspire
his fellow inmates to lift their degraded horizons. Among them is Red
(Freeman, in a matchless supporting role), the lifer who can, given
time, provide virtually anything. And for reasons best known to
himself, Dufresne requires 40s starlet Rita Hayworth, provisioned in
poster form.The mood swings rigorously through every emotion as the cranky, wiseguy
and downright crazed array of criminals bare the brunt of the turbulent
life within the doomy Shawshank catacomb. Then it gets really mean,
gearing up for its injury-time shockers. Dufresne, a whiz with figures,
is bullied into running the warden's (Gunton) petty accounting scams,
giving him the chance to execute his and the film's final, greatest
miracle.If you're miserable enough to look for gripes then, yes, it does drift
on too long and who needs prison buggery again? Yet the ending has such
poetic completeness you're too busy contentedly chuckling to worry
about sore behinds. This may have confounded American audiences - it
flopped big-time on planet Yank - but a more divine movie experience
you will not find this side of Oscardom. Spread the word.

******
16 February 2014
10
One of the best movies ever. This one never gets old. Tim Robbins is my
favorite actor and was before this movie. This movie is one of his
best. His other classic favorite of mine is Jacobs Ladder. Love the
development of the characters in the movie. Each one is his on and adds
to the movie. Very good script, very original, clever. I wish he would
have won the Oscar for this movie. I also wish Morgan Freeman would
have won as well. Another point that was made in this movie that
sticks, is how when you have done the same thing for so long, you don't
know how to not do it. Point was made and shown several times by
different actors. Love this quote: She was beautiful. God I loved her.
I just didn't know how to show it.

******
16 February 2014
10
This film is without a doubt a classic that will be watched until the
end of time. A must see movie for anybody that wants to have their
heart touched. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman together is a work of
art, the chemistry that these two actors bring to the table is
incredible. I had to write a paper about this film in English 101
class. After watching this film four times in one week I noticed
certain themes in scenes that after the first time watching it I did
not catch. Each scene has so much background that it fascinating to
watch from beginning to end. We have to give credit to Stephen King,
his short story is the main reason why this movie exist. Great movie
enough said! Definitely a must watch. -Edd

******
16 February 2014
9
The film is very gripping which holds you straight from the start. You
never want it to end, however you cant help being amazed when it does.
This is a film that needs to be watched by everyone and is truly one of
the all time greats. The main character in this film really has you
liking him from the very off, so all the way through the film your
wanting them to get some luck or happiness and if he does it is shared
with the watcher. Other characters in this film also display an awesome
role within the film and making it such a success. This film was truly
acted out to perfection and couldn't of been done better, however if
your not a fan of long films then this one may irritate you a little,
however I couldn't imagine people not liking this film.

******
14 February 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption(1994) is an American drama movie set in 1947
and spanning 20 years of two prisoners at Shawshank who survive the
place with no hope of ever coming out, but one still thrives on the
'dangerous' but 'good thing'. Based on a novella Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption by Stephen King, the movie hooks you from its very
first scene. An innocent person, Andy Dufresne is convicted for two
life sentences, and in the prison, he meets Red, a man who have spent
almost twenty years there, and one, who has been here as long as he can
remember (50 years). With a life different from anything in the outside
world, the movie takes you on a tour of life of these people where
corruption, hypocrisy of religion and authority, friendship and enmity
are hard to miss.Morgan Freeman as Red with a very natural acting, and Tim Robins as
Andy Dufresne playing a young, bright and observant banker, the movie,
written and directed by Frank Darabont has soothing background music
and great cinematography.A must, must watch.

******
14 February 2014
10
As i started watching this i was already convinced that i saw the best
movie of 1994.And i don't even get why the director to this film Frank
Darabont didn't even win or was nominated for the best director
Oscar.This film also has 2 of the greatest performances throughout the
whole movie which were the Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman
performances.Also this movie deserves to be on the IMDb top 250 because
this movie will keep you in your seat from start to finish,and those of
you people out there who haven't seen this movie i recommend that you
have to watch this movie, And has a great premise as well. The movie
also has other great performances from James Whitmore,Bob Gunton,and
Clancy Brown.

******
13 February 2014
10
I have seen this movie only a few times. The first time I was really
too young to appreciate it. When I watched it recently it reminded how
good the movie actually was. I was too young to appreciate things in it
then and now, it was such an eye opener. A must watch for people who
haven't seen it. The story follows a man who is put in prison. There he
finds many prison mates that become friends and value him as a person.
The main character goes through many unfortunate events and trials but
what eventually happens in the end is quite a good surprise. The cast
did an amazing job and the movie is inspiring. I recommend people to
watch this film.

******
13 February 2014
10
I don't like prison movies that much but this was the best prison movie
I have ever seen. I like ever thing about it. The acting was really
good. ******spoiler alert ******* I liked it when Andy is escaping the
prison . I like how he he made the whole on the wall to escape that was
good I also like when the two friends are reunited at the end of the
movie. This movie was really good.i don't like writing much but I will
write the ten lines I need for this review cause this movie was really
good. I don't agree with some these movies that are in the IMDb top 250
but with this I do. I don't know if it should be number 1 but it was
really good. If you want to watch a good prison movie then watch this
one cause this is the best prison movie I have ever seen. I recommend
this movie to everybody to see it. So if you haven't seen this movie go
and watch it you will probably like more or as much as i did. You have
to see this movie at least once in your whole entire life time.

******
13 February 2014
10
It was a best movie I have ever seen. I enjoyed the movie very much & I
was just speechless when I watched the movie first. It was create a
amazing feelings inside my heart. After watching this movie I know
about the depth of friendship. A good friend can make our life
beautiful & it's proved in my life. Friendship is the best relation
after FAMILY. And this movie realize me the truth. I love my friends &
family to much. Morgan Freeman is one of the best actor of this movie.
Without him the movie will incomplete. Hats off to the writer, director
& actors. I personally appreciate them from the bottom of my heart for
making this high quality movie.

******
13 February 2014
9
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
11 February 2014
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis Red Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the new
recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities of
prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont.~ Mark Deming,

******
10 February 2014
9
The film is beautiful and interesting and fun, thanks to the director
and staff representatives and photographers. The film is beautiful and
interesting and fun, thanks to the director and staff representatives
and photographers. The film is beautiful and interesting and fun,
thanks to the director and staff representatives and photographers. The
film is beautiful and interesting and fun, thanks to the director and
staff representatives and photographers. The film is beautiful and
interesting and fun, thanks to the director and staff representatives
and photographers. The film is beautiful and interesting and fun,
thanks to the director and staff representatives and photographers. The
film is beautiful and interesting and fun, thanks to the director and
staff representatives and photographers. The film is beautiful and
interesting and fun, thanks to the director and staff representatives
and photographers.

******
9 February 2014
10
There are so many histories to tell wherever is fiction or real life,
and seeing movies is my favorite way to connect with these histories.
This is a film that moves you, makes you really go deep into the story
and connect with the characters. It is fantastically written and
directed, keeps you entertained, makes you laugh and shed serious
tears. I like to read, but one of the things I love the most is to
watch movies, I saw this one when I was 15 and it opened my mind to a
movie world that I never imagined, puts your mind into how life can be
unfair and how to look a way out and take advantage with what you have
in hand, and think that when you put your mind into something wonderful
things can happen. I am sure I'm not the only one that has been touched
by this film, and I don't know what to say anymore than this is one of
the most wonderful movies ever made, with this one I became a Morgan
Freeman and Frank Darabont's fan. Ever since this movie my list of
genres change into a list with no numbers (maybe a handful of
absolutely favorites), I see every film that time allows me. This is a
movie that definitely is time very well spent and keeps lingering in
your mind always.

******
9 February 2014
9
One of my all time favourites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
9 February 2014
9
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty
-- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the
subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving
life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off
despair.The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest bus load of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy
turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him
is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing
seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for
murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details
involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality;
all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who
is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes
up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his
term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been
rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out
of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that
he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills
himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on
the outside.

******
8 February 2014
10
Like some other reviewers, I had avoided watching this: jail movies,
Stephen King ( and don't get me wrong - I really like his novels and
the films esp The Shining - even though he hated Kubrick's version -
but I had an expectation of his work which was counter to what makes a
'universal' movie).Eventually, by accident, I had it on in the background on a UK digital
channel, but in about 10 minutes in I stopped doing what I was doing
and watched it. There's no point in my trying to add much to the thousands of words
that have been written about this - all I know is that it touched me
deeply - and in a way that I thought an all male cast and plot setting
couldn't do. A truly beautiful, thought provoking and 'moral tale'.If there is anyone one out there who still haven't seen this - I really
suggest that you do so. I simply can't believe that it barely recovered
budget in the 90's when it was first released.I think it is one of the most exceptionally brilliant movies Hollywood
has ever produced.Morgan Freeman was brilliant, of course, but it is an ensemble piece:
the whole is much much greater than its parts.

******
8 February 2014
10
This is prolly one of the best movies i've ever seen in my whole life!
The acting is so incredible and same goes with the plot. This movie
gets 10/10 from me because the ending part when Morgan Freeman gets
outta jail to and meets up with that other guy is just breath taking.
Morgan Freeman does a really great job in this movie because he plays
this guy that isn't a bad guy but a he still keeps his cool. Same goes
with the main char that really tries to tell everyone that hes
innocent. This is a movie that i think everyone should at least watch
once in a lifetime. Yes some of you may think that I'm overdoing it,
but i promise you this is a great bad ass movie!Review from - Labinot Sadrija

******
7 February 2014
10
After years of being told to watch this film I finally did a few weeks
ago and was not disappointed. Stunningly written and amazing
performances, Morgan Freeman is especially brilliant, even more so than
usual. The clever nature of the script coupled with the uplifting
nature of the story make it comfortably the best film I have ever had
the pleasure of watching. When in response to the question 'what is the
greatest film of all time?' I answer 'The Shawshank Redemption,' my
friends tend to groan. They say that as it is such a common answer to
the question I am copping out, I say there is a reason it is such a
common answer. Truly life affirming.

******
5 February 2014
10
The film kept me going throughout the whole movie! I couldn't believe
how the production was able to pull such a great film off. I even talk
to a few of my colleagues about this film and every single one gave
nothing but the up most respect and feedback that this film should have
been nominated more then the few awards it received. Morgan Freeman is
one of the best actors and mentors of this age and time. I really look
up to him for inspirational feedback and knowledge to help me as an
young artist to better develop my craft and skills. I have grown to
love this film over and over with time, this have became one of my
favorite and best movie of all time. Morgan Freeman this is one of your
best performance and I am truly happy to know that your work is still
going.

******
4 February 2014
10
When I read the book, actually novella, I had no idea it was being made
into a movie. I was delighted that I was actually seeing a film after I
had read the book - this never happens. My first surprise was how they pronounced Andy Dufresne's last name -
in the book I did not pronounce it do-Frayne. I also wasn't expecting
Red to be a black man but a white Irish guy.This is a superb film that takes the "prison film" genre on and wins.
Tim Robbins is perfectly cast and Morgan Freeman is highly watchable.
His voice-over really adds gravitas and a link to the audience
wondering how Andy will ever survive the awful existence of prison
life.The prison itself is so imposing and the prisoners, for the most part,
scary. Although not too many people were in the cinema when I saw it, I
knew it would be a film that people would come to love. A small film
from a small novella about big things.The Brooks storyline was so beautiful and sad, that could have been a
movie all by itself.

******
2 February 2014
7
The Shawshank Redemption is good movie, I Think This is best movie but
not as much as batter than other i like this movie but some time we
think batter is not batter then other, When This Movie will started is
awesome some started part but when between part come that time it was
some what boring.so for that i give him 7 rates other wise i increase
it . now the ending part of this move will be also good but this movie
is contain some best topic and awesome since. i want to say i am from
India but i Like Hollywood movie,so this is good movie as my think.my
review. i will give him 7 start from 10. so, this review from founder
of I Tech PassionI Tech Passion.com

******
1 February 2014
10
In its Oscar year, Shawshank Redemption (written and directed by Frank
Darabont, after the novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption,
by Stephen King) was nominated for seven Academy Awards, and walked
away with zero. Best Picture went to Forrest Gump, while Shawshank and
Pulp Fiction were "just happy to be nominated." Of course hindsight is
20/20, but while history looks back on Gump as a good film, Pulp and
Redemption are remembered as some of the all-time best. Pulp, however,
was a success from the word "go," making a huge splash at Cannes and
making its writer-director an American master after only two films. For
Andy Dufresne and Co., success didn't come easy. Fortunately, failure
wasn't a life sentence.After opening on 33 screens with take of $727,327, the $25M film fell
fast from theatres and finished with a mere $28.3M. The reasons for
failure are many. Firstly, the title is a clunker. While iconic to fans
today, in 1994, people knew not and cared not what a 'Shawshank' was.
On the DVD, Tim Robbins laughs recounting fans congratulating him on
"that 'Rickshaw' movie." Marketing-wise, the film's a nightmare, as
'prison drama' is a tough sell to women, and the story of love between
two best friends doesn't spell winner to men. Worst of all, the movie
is slow as molasses. As Desson Thomson writes for the Washington Post,
"it wanders down subplots at every opportunity and ignores an abundance
of narrative exit points before settling on its finale." But it is
these same weaknesses that make the film so strong.Firstly, its setting. The opening aerial shots of the prison are a
total eye-opener. This is an amazing piece of architecture, strong and
Gothic in design. Immediately, the prison becomes a character. It casts
its shadow over most of the film, its tall stone walls stretching above
every shot. It towers over the men it contains, blotting out all
memories of the outside world. Only Andy (Robbins) holds onto hope.
It's in music, it's in the sandy beaches of Zihuatanejo; "In here's
where you need it most," he says. "You need it so you don't forget.
Forget that there are places in the world that aren't made out of
stone. That there's a - there's a - there's something inside that's
yours, that they can't touch." Red (Morgan Freeman) doesn't think much
of Andy at first, picking "that tall glass o' milk with the silver
spoon up his ass" as the first new fish to crack. Andy says not a word,
and losing his bet, Red resents him for it. But over time, as the two
get to know each other, they quickly become the best of friends. This
again, is one of the film's major strengths. Many movies are about
love, many flicks have a side-kick to the hero, but Shawshank is the
only one I can think of that looks honestly at the love between two
best friends. It seems odd that Hollywood would skip this relationship
time and again, when it's a feeling that weighs so much into everyone's
day to day lives. Perhaps it's too sentimental to seem conventional,
but Shawshank's core friendship hits all the right notes, and the film
is much better for it.It's pacing is deliberate as well. As we spend the film watching the
same actors, it is easy to forget that the movie's timeline spans well
over 20 years. Such a huge measure of time would pass slowly in
reality, and would only be amplified in prison. And it's not as if the
film lacks interest in these moments. It still knows where it's going,
it merely intends on taking its sweet time getting there. It pays off
as well, as the tedium of prison life makes the climax that much more
exhilarating. For anyone who sees it, it is a moment never to be
forgotten.With themes of faith and hope, there is a definite religious subtext to
be found here. Quiet, selfless and carefree, Andy is an obvious Christ
figure. Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) is obviously modeled on Richard
Nixon, who, in his day, was as close to a personified Satan as they
come. But if you aren't looking for subtexts, the movie speaks to
anyone in search of hope. It is a compelling drama, and a very moving
film, perfectly written, acted and shot. They just don't come much
better than this.OVERALL SCORE: 9.8/10 = A+ The Shawshank Redemption served as a message
of hope to Hollywood as well. More than any film in memory, it proved
there is life after box office. Besting Forrest and Fiction, it ran
solely on strong word of mouth and became the hottest rented film of
1995. It currently sits at #2 in the IMDb's Top 250 Films, occasionally
swapping spots with The Godfather as the top ranked film of all time --
redemption indeed. If you haven't seen it yet, what the hell are you
waiting for? As Andy says, "It comes down a simple choice, really.
Either get busy living, or get busy dying."

******
1 February 2014
10
It's simply one of the best movies off all time. All is perfect:
Screenplay, cinematography,acting,production...The performances are of
the highest quality- every character is portrayed in such a way as to
enhance the authenticity of the film and give it true life. The most
complete movie that I've ever seen. I really recommend this movie to
anyone. It tells use there exists brightness in the darkness and never
gives up hope. Once again, in my opinion,this is simply the best movie
ever made,with so many moments burned forever in my memory.... I'll
stop it there, but that's all you need to know. An absolute
masterpiece.

******
1 February 2014
10
This movie was just amazing just so good i feel like everyone should
watch it, i felt hooked on all aspects of this film, i felt that each
and every scene was captivating from the music to the acting to the
atmosphere and dialogue it was that good! The atmosphere in the scene
is just impeccable, and it shows a great narrative with all the quirks
and features we want to see and not something that is just made for the
fun of it for cash, this movie is truly captivating, i feel so
connected to the character more that anything. I watched this film so
many times and it still steals me away with the amazing acting from the
best. The atmosphere makes the film even more amazing, i just wish that
there was much more so that i could keep watching and never stop
because that is the effect Shawshank Redemption has left on me and i
can talk forever but i think that just watching the movie is better,
there are many ways you still can watch this on a lot of things, and i
know it is still on NETFLIX it is a great watch 10/10 please go see it
now i highly recommend it.

******
31 January 2014
10
Absolutely the perfect movie, taking you through all your emotions,
insisting on making you feel your hope, anger, disgust, compassion,
love, hate and pride. Genuinely moving with a voice-over to die for.
The narration takes you on a journey of epic storytelling, whilst still
moving you to tears. Morgan Freeman delivers the most powerful
performance, I think, of his career as the very likable Red, while the
then unknown to me, Tim Robbins delivers a poignant performance of an
ill justified innocent who gets caught up in a web of in-prison
politics and corruption. The schemes of Tim's character, Andy Dufresne
with his wizardry with the abacus and knowledge of the tax system
befriends the prisoners and the officers and the smug look on his face
is to die for when he get his inmates a bottle of beer each to drink in
the sunshine. How this didn't win an Oscar, I do not understand.

******
30 January 2014
10
If I categorize this movie, i'll put it in category of struggle, hope
and commitment. Must watch for all.If I categorize this movie, i'll put
it in category of struggle, hope and commitment. Must watch for all.If
I categorize this movie, i'll put it in category of struggle, hope and
commitment. Must watch for all.If I categorize this movie, i'll put it
in category of struggle, hope and commitment. Must watch for all.If I
categorize this movie, i'll put it in category of struggle, hope and
commitment. Must watch for all.If I categorize this movie, i'll put it
in category of struggle, hope and commitment. Must watch for all.If I
categorize this movie, i'll put it in category of struggle, hope and
commitment. Must watch for all.If I categorize this movie, i'll put it
in category of struggle, hope and commitment. Must watch for all.If I
categorize this movie, i'll put it in category of struggle, hope and
commitment. Must watch for all.If I categorize this movie, i'll put it
in category of struggle, hope and commitment. Must watch for all.If I
categorize this movie, i'll put it in category of struggle, hope and
commitment. Must watch for all.If I categorize this movie, i'll put it
in category of struggle, hope and commitment. Must watch for all.If I
categorize this movie, i'll put it in category of struggle, hope and
commitment. Must watch for all.If I categorize this movie, i'll put it
in category of struggle, hope and commitment. Must watch for all.If I
categorize this movie, i'll put it in category of struggle, hope and
commitment. Must watch for all.If I categorize this movie, i'll put it
in category of struggle, hope and commitment. Must watch for all.

******
30 January 2014
10
This is a timeless film that has many great life lessons. Every time I
see this movie, it is just as enjoyable as the previous time watching.
It's a heartwarming story about a man who is put into a tough situation
and learns to overcome adversity as well as make a few friends in one
of the harshest environments in society. I notice similarities between
this movie and the television show Prison Break. I believe the writers
for prison break used this movie as an inspiration for the show which
is great because I love both projects. I enjoy movies of this genre and
I strongly recommend it for family movie night or anyone of any age. It
is a must see.

******
28 January 2014
10
Is film is a timeless classic, there are no two ways of saying it. It
doesn't have explosions, mass deaths or laugh out loud comedy. Yet it
still appeals to everyone. It has a simple and well thought out story line with a very simplistic
narrative voice over, but with it being so simple - it makes it so
brilliant. This film is the best example to everyone, that you don't
need explosions to create a masterpiece. Just Morgan Freeman and some
casual swearing.Many would say that because it isn't exiting all the time it isn't a
good film. But 'The Shawshank Redemption' creates it's own category,
were you will never be able to compare it to another films.

******
28 January 2014
9
A must watch this movie is with the movie nicely setup by its front
line cast thus compelling with the excellent script of the movie. Loses
a bit of essence in the middle but still keep u in grasp with the hope
of the felony.This movie has all factors that a movie can have apart
from romance only and thus add versatility to this movie.Morgan Freeman
has done a excellent job in the complimenting the rhythm set up by Tim
Robbins. It also gives us an idea that corruption is everywhere even in
closed bars of a jail it is practiced rather casually. And how many
flaws are there in our decision making bodies. But in the end the hope
of one man stand above all this things and inspire others in the same
environment thus showing one of the brightest qualities of a human that
is belief and inspiration. That's all I can say about this movie. Thank
you

******
27 January 2014
6
The Shawshank Redemption was a film that I have heard so much about.
Many of my friends have hailed it as their favorite film and one of the
greatest films ever made. Now, being someone who isn't easily pleased;
I went into The Shawshank Redemption with reservations. Coming out of the film, I realized that it made me feel warm. I know
that's a weird saying but it's a comfort film. A lot of people love it
because it leaves you feeling happy and hopeful; not disturbed like
Chinatown or frightened like Halloween (1978). Shawshank is sentimental, joyful and has one great ending. Yet, the
film feels so "safe"; leading the audience to a bittersweet and
somewhat forced conclusion. Overall, The Shawshank Redemption is a good film; it just doesn't take
risks. Shawshank feels just fine in its little comfortable cinematic
world. If people enjoy that type of film, that's fine; I just think a film
that takes more risks (2001: A Space Odyssey or The Tree Of Life)
should be deserving of the top spot of the IMDb Top 250.

******
27 January 2014
9
Can never imagine Shawshank could keep this secret for such a long
time. When his friend subsided when leaving the poison, he never quit
his dream. When the poison leader forced him to do illegal things, he
compromised to survive, because there is a dream deeply rooted in his
mind. A man is never broken down if only his mind is strong. Sometimes
we consider desire as a kind of forbidden thing where wicked things
happened, however in other point, desire is a kind of driving force. I
think the director is trying to convey to the audience that there is a
kind of force that can drive people to success. We should use this
force to help us.

******
26 January 2014
10
Shawshank was one of the best movie I've ever watched. The message of
hope is undeniably one of the best themes and the director does a
masterful job at delivering it so patiently and yet with precision and
passion and in one of the most inspiring ways a movie can.Andy and red are skillfully acted and the narration by Morgan Freeman
is intensely touching. Its a shame they did not get recognized by the
academy, but they should by now realize they were part of a
masterpiece. most movies fade in interest when one watches them more
than once, not Shawshank. The story stays strong, the message ever more
alive and fresh, and the acting truly is one of the best.Thank you Frank for making this movie.

******
26 January 2014
10
Every time I see this film, I am filled with dark thoughts which
ultimately gets overshadowed by hope. After all these years, this one
still stands in number one list and one of my few reasons to join movie
industry. Well, so many things have been said and written, so I want to focus on
one particular note-patience. Yes, friendship is the key theme of the
movie that propels the plot till the very last shot of the film since
the beginning of the narration but apart from the main theme of film
being hope and friendship, this film strongly con-notates the power of
patience and persistence. Would not like to talk about the entire story here but next time you
watch this, just take a close look at Andy, and the way he holds his
emotion at the beginning in the court and till the very end when he
wears the polished shoe of Warden, no doubt there is deep sorrow and
regret but above all, a sign of hope and his patience to make things
happen is always there throughout the movie-be it winning to get the
books, more books or even beer for his friends despite he doesn't drink
himself. Well, I always discover so many hidden subtle meanings every time I
watch this, I loose track of the information and the key things but for
sure, apart of Hope and Friendship thing, patience and persistence tops
the reason why is film is so courageous in its way.

******
26 January 2014
10
A story of brotherhood, revenge, trials and tribulation. A man is
imprisoned and the story goes along with the decades he spends behind
the bars of an old and corrupt prison with some of the best characters
written and some of the best actors portraying those characters. This
movie was just put together right. There is no doubt you will love this
film and love the characters. I rated this title a 10 and barely
anything else rates this with me. The Green Mile would be another that
was put together in such a way there is no way to NOT love it! One of
the very best movies made from the stories of Stephen King. Without a
doubt one of the movies I'd want with me while stranded on a deserted
island. You will love this movie unless you are dead.

******
25 January 2014
10
I just saw the movie it was great, the symbolism, the actors everything
and everyone in that movie were brilliant. It maybe an "old" movie,
doesn't have special effects and stuff but i enjoyed every second of
that movie. In two words brilliant and magnificent (I cant describe it
in one word).It is about a man who never give up in what life throws at
him, but this is a little bit common. So what is that keeps "awake" on
an almost 3 hour movie? Is the way that the movie flows, the dialogs,
humor and the mystery that keeps you "awake". In conclusion, i believe
that it's a movie worth seeing no matter what. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman are great couple and remember that it's all about freedom.

******
25 January 2014
9
What can I say that hasn't been said yet? This film is amazing and one
of the best ever made with fantastic performances. Forget about my
review and any other. Go and watch this film right now. Seriously, just
go do it. No amount of words can describe this films greatness. One of
the best things about this film, besides the acting, is the music by
Thomas Newman. It certainly deserves all the awards it got and more.
The direction is superb, emotion is real, and the overall story is
brilliant. Out of ten stars, this is definitely 9 but out of by usual 5
rating it is certainly a 4.5. I have watched this numerous times since
my first viewing and it only gets better and better. Again, if you have
not seen this film yet, please do yourself a favor and go watch it. You
will not regret it.

******
25 January 2014
10
One of the best movies ever came out in the last 30 years . The film
expresses a lot of depth and gives a feeling of connection to the
players. I think the director did an amazing job and gave a spectacular
display film which gives the viewer the ability to judge and connect
simulate not see any film today. The film itself is built well and
gives a feeling of wanting to be there. There is no possibility to know
what will be the end and anyone who watched expect a good show quality
that will give the viewer the experience of movies which had expected .
Of course there is the little things that cause to panic and a desire
to stop watching due to the unpleasant feelings that pass on the viewer
but it only intensifies the experience within the film. Satisfied,
fascinated , amazing, fantastic , spotless , movie end of the road .

******
24 January 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest films ever made. Frank
Darabont, known currently as the creator of The Walking Dead, created a
beautiful and heartfelt film that has gone down in history as one of
the best films ever. It's a brutal yet inspiring film that will give
you the deepest of feelings.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are great together and create chemistry
chemistry that is wonderful. See this film now, you will do yourself a
huge favour. - KT RockerfellerSeriously, watch it.OK?

******
23 January 2014
10
Shawshank is an example of the beauty and power that great cinema can
conj our. A deceptive film of prison life that contains violence,
humor, an extremely tear-jerking moment. A lot happens, yet the film
just seems to amble confidently along like the film's main character.
This film works on so many levels and definitely rewards repeated
viewing. The cinematography and music are wonderful, as are the central
performances. Yet for all this it is the tale itself and how it is told
that makes this (one of) the greatest stories ever told. People have
theorized about what this film means ...is it an disguised story of
Jesus?...a simple tale of friendship?...a tale of corruption?...a
lecture on faith and 'holding on'?...or is the main character not who
we think it to be for 3/4 of the film? After all there is one major
'redemption' in this film: a man who has to decide whether "It's time
to get busy dying, or get busy living". REDEEM YOURSELF, SEE THIS FILM.

******
21 January 2014
10
Yes I'm 15 years old I've seen this movie once and that was almost a
year ago. After seeing this movie for the first time in my life I felt
like a changed person. Yes everyone has hard times but this movie
showed me not only the power of hope but the power of friendship. It's funny my name is Andy my dad names me this because of the
shawshank redemption and now I feel blessed to have that name. When
Andy is brought to prison my first thought was he was a bad or even
evil person. Over time that calmly slips away. I think what makes this the #1 movie of all time is the redemption
part. Yes there are plenty of good movies about hope and change, but
the great films such as shawshank convince you there will be a bad or
sad ending and it doesn't happen. I will show this to my kids whenever that happens I will wage tell
there my age though not because of the violence or the rape or language
but because when they see this I want them to understand it and love it
and hopefully change them.

******
20 January 2014
9
You don't get emotive, engaging story telling like this any more. Every
aspect of the film, from the cinematography to the performances are top
notch. The beauty of the film is that even the smaller characters have
a story to tell, a journey to take you on, which seems to be completely
missing in films now a days. Though Stephen King is normally associated
with horror, this story is very human and touching, to the point where
it becomes inspirational. In fact it has been King's non horror stories
that seemed to have been most successful at being adapted into movies.
This movie along with Stand by Me, though I'm sure many will disagree
with me on that point. Well worth a watch when you're having a quiet
night in.

******
19 January 2014
10
Hello Friends,This is my first review & i hope it will be useful. The Shawshank
Redemption; as the name says, the movie is about the life of the
people, who had committed crimes in their life & suffering life
sentence. People in the prison are afraid of their every move in the
jail due to the kind of punishments what they have suffered in the
past.During then an innocent banker, who has been charged for Murder of his
wife & her Boyfriend enters the premises. He will soon became good
friend with Morgan Freeman. Due to his pro-activeness & intelligence,
he will soon become the mentor for all the staff including warden for
their IT woes.He will also expand the Library for the prisoners which gives them a
whole new different life. During this time, a young boy, who enters the
jail and will soon becomes the part of the team along with Tim &
Morgan. From whom, Tim will get to know the proof for his innocence. So
when explained this to warden, he calls this young kid for a private
discussion & kills him. Even then Tim will not lose hope. With the help
of a small hammer & the Lady poster which he brought from Morgan, he
continuously did the drilling of the wall for 20 years.At the right time, he escapes through the wall, followed by stinking
crawling in the gutter for 500yards, along with other Major bank
documents of his Warden, he then escapes the prison & starts the new
life by exposing the reality of Shwashank & its operations.By doing all this he creates HOPE in the mind of the people that, there
is lot awaiting outside, rather than what is left behind the four
concrete walls. He says to Morgan, Hope is the best thing that a Man
can Have.

******
19 January 2014
10
This movie is one of my all time favorites. I can quote this movie
pretty much through the whole movie. It is a riveting film, and it
never bores you. It makes you feel every emotion. It makes you laugh,
cry, cheer, and empathize over the course of the movie. I've seen very
few movies that almost every type of person enjoys. I seriously
question people's tastes if they don't at least acknowledge the fact
this was a brilliant movie. They don't have to like it ( which I find
out pretty rare ) but they have to admit, they acting was great.
Writing this review makes me want to watch it again. The ending always
makes me smile.

******
19 January 2014
8
The Shawshank Redemption has always been one of my favorite films to
watch. I was introduced to this movie by my dad, who has always been a
huge fan of the film. I didn't think at first I would have liked the
movie, but I was wrong. Tim Robbins plays a character called Andy; who
was sentenced to prison for committing a crime he never committed. Tim
Robbins did a remarkable job of playing Andy. Andy had this attitude
about him that captured the audience in a special way. He was always so
calm, and although he had been put in prison for something he didn't do
and, was treated horribly by some of his fellow inmates; he still
remained a humble individual. He didn't let these actions of others
affect his life. He knew he didn't do anything wrong. He knew what kind
of a man he was, and he wanted out of prison. Morgan Freeman played "Red" a character whom Andy befriended in prison.
Just like the audience watching the film, Red was always drawn to Andy.
Andy always kept Red guessing of what was to come. I always enjoyed the
relationship shared between Andy and Red. It's the kind of friendship
you'd want with someone-even given the circumstances in which they were
living. Eventually, Andy devised a plan and escaped Shawshank. Red
eventually was let out of prison and went on to find Andy. This was
another one of my favorite parts of the movie; not only the fact that
Andy escaped from the prison in which he didn't belong but Red and him
were reunited. I think in the end despite the fact that Red and Andy
were prison inmates; everyone was on their side. They had never really
seemed like they belonged in prison. They seemed like they were good
people. Above all I believed after so long some people just learn their
lesson and deserve to be sent home. This film is truly amazing and
never gets old for me. There will never be another one quite like it.

******
19 January 2014
9
I'm a guy that takes pride on the fact of being quite open-minded when
it comes to appreciating different genres and kinds of stories. I love
movies that faithfully and movingly depict the ugly side of humanity,
but every now and then I also like something that tells us that not
everything is lost.The Shawshank Redemption introduces us to Andy Dufresne. A gentile yet
emotionally estranged banker who's wrongfully accused of murdering his
wife and her lover. This brings him to a gruesome prison were his will
to maintain his humanity will be put to the test by the corrupt and
abusive authorities of the prison, and also by some of his fellow
inmates. In this bleak scenario he will find hope in the guise of
friendship. Which will push him to rise above the situation.This movie is all about hope. About the power of friendship and the
reluctance to give up on life, even under the darkest circumstances.
Even locked in a pit of pure evil, human spirit can be enough to lift
you up.Tim Robbins is convincing and moving in his performance, although he is
outshone by a brilliant Morgan Freeman, who always seems to
effortlessly touch the soul of the audience with his performances. The
bad guys also generate the right amount of repulsion, with a good job
from Bob Gunton as the morally questionable warden and Clancy Brown in
the memorable role of the violent and vicious captain Hadley.I've seen some reviews questioning the placement of this film as #1 for
IMDb users. I don't think any of us can put a movie above all the rest
or below them. Art is subject to personal appreciation and there will
never be a single opinion more valuable than the rest. What's
undeniable is that Shawshank caused what it intended. Moving the
majority of people that have seen it through a beautiful story that
aims to the human spirit and it's power to shed light in the darkest
moments.

******
18 January 2014
10
Andy Dufresne, a successful banker is convicted for the murder of his
wife and her lover. At first, it is hard for him to get used to it on
the inside, but when he meets Red, the guy who can get it for you, they
become friends and they work their problems out together. The guards
seem to like Andy after he helped Captain Hadley with his tax issues.
They give Andy more privileges. They let him write letters, help the
guards during Tax Season, build the Shawshank Prison Library, and teach
other prisoners education. But when the new inmate Tommy, who was one
of Andy's classmates for reading, is shot by Captain Hadley, Andy feels
it's time for him to escape with the help of his friend Red. He tells
Red that when he escapes, he plans to move down to Zihuatanejo. He
tells Red that when he finally is released from the prison, he wants
him to move with him. Red agrees. So then on a stormy night, Andy used
a rock hammer to tunnel through the cement wall. Then he crawls through
a sewer tunnel 500 yards long out to a creek. Then shortly afterwards,
Captain Hadley is taken to prison after shooting the inmate Tommy, and
Norton the Warden shoots himself after he sees Captain Hadley being
taken away. Then the day comes, when they release Red from the prison,
and like he promised Andy, he got a ticket to ride a bus down to
Zihuatanejo, where he finally gets to meet his friend Andy again.

******
15 January 2014
9
This movie should be added as a syllabus for students of film.Everything is great, the direction, acting, the works! A brutally
honest look at hope, which is just inside the realm of possibility.This makes you want to take life in a better spirit than you already
do. Should be shown to young adults to teach them the value of patience,
which is something that's going out of fashion in this era of
'everything online'.There's something to be said about Stephen King. . . he may not be the
best writer, but he is definitely the best storyteller.

******
14 January 2014
10
One of the best movies I have ever seen. Tim, was amazing and moving.
Morgan, was spectacular....not surprising at all. This movie will make
you feel for each character. you will happy and sad all at the same
time. If you have not seen this movie yet, you must. It is my #1 movie.
I can't say it is best for kids, due to some scenes. This film manages
to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared it long lost in a
dark sea of clichés and predictability. Darabont shows us that artists
still work in the Hollywood studios and production facilities. These
artists show their capability to produce art; real art that inspires
you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you. The
Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed breath of fresh air for
anyone who realizes the capability of film. It proves that masters of
the craft still live on this earth, and still bless us with timeless
masterpieces that we will never forget.

******
14 January 2014
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont. ~ Mark Deming, Rovi

******
14 January 2014
9
This was one of the most excellent movie I have ever seen. Such great
acting and characters this movie turns out to be more than your
expectations. You might see many jail movies but nothing is even near
to this movie. The best line is "Andy Dufresne was my friend." The way
Morgan freeman says it, it's wonderful. Acting of Tim Robbins is
remarkable. I really wonder why this movie could not win Oscars. Having
Morgan Freeman in film itself is a tag of excellent script. Besides
that direction is also very well done. You will not have seen such
planned and brilliant movie till now Do watch it. This movie deserves
to be on top.

******
13 January 2014
8
"The Shawshank Redemption" is very entertaining, and quite possibly the
greatest prison film of all-time.Based on the Stephen King's novel of the same name, the film shows what
happens to Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) after he is ordered to prison
for a double murder that he did not commit. Much of the film story
revolves around Andy and the friendships he makes in the barbarous
environment that is a prison.It the best films from the 90s but "The Shawshank Redemption" for me
trails "The Lion King","Forest Gump", "Pulp Fiction" & possibly even
"Leon: The Professional" for best films of 1994. As well as this the
film, can be in some parts slow and be a bit boring.Despite this, the film is enjoyable and has some scenes that truly hit
you hard (Brooks' release). It is good but overrated

******
12 January 2014
9
Movies can not be predicted from the beginning that will never end.the
characters are very original.and very well finished.people are getting
into the prison environment.A movie that appeals to everyone.A lot can be said about.deserves all
the praise.feeling very well have been transferred.One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance.As I bet you'll want to see this one more than once.

******
12 January 2014
9
It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but
"The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because
it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us vicarious
experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and
looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in
the story of men who have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper
than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship
and hope.Interesting that although the hero of the film is the convicted former
banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is never seen from his
point of view. The film's opening scene shows him being given two life
sentences for the murder of his wife and her lover, and then we move,
permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and
particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman). It is his
voice remembering the first time he saw Andy ("looked like a stiff
breeze would blow him over"), and predicting, wrongly, that he wouldn't
make it in prison.From Andy's arrival on the prison bus to the film's end, we see only
how others see him - Red, who becomes his best friend, Brooks the old
librarian, the corrupt Warden Norton, guards and prisoners. Red is our
surrogate. He's the one we identify with, and the redemption, when it
comes, is Red's. We've been shown by Andy's example that you have to
keep true to yourself, not lose hope, bide your time, set a quiet
example and look for your chance. "I guess it comes down to a simple
choice, really," he tells Red. "Get busy livin' or get busy dyin'."The key to the film's structure, I think, is that it's not about its
hero, but about our relationship with him - our curiosity, our pity,
our admiration. If Andy had been the heroic center, bravely enduring,
the film would have been conventional, and less mysterious. But we
wonder about this guy. Did he really kill those two people? Why does he
keep so much to himself? Why can he amble through the prison yard like
a free man on a stroll, when everyone else plods or sidles?People like excitement at the movies, and titles that provide it do
well. Films about "redemption" are approached with great wariness; a
lot of people are not thrilled by the prospect of a great film - it
sounds like work. But there's a hunger for messages of hope, and when a
film offers one, it's likely to have staying power even if it doesn't
grab an immediate audience."The Shawshank Redemption" premiered at the Toronto Film Festival in
September 1994, and opened a few weeks later. It got good reviews but
did poor business (its $18 million original gross didn't cover costs;
it took in only another $10 million after winning seven Oscar
nominations, including best picture).

******
11 January 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of those films that mark a trip to the
movies Forever is one of those movies that we see once every 10 years,
created world, the plot, everything in this film is spectacular, one
10/10 Fully deserved, too many movies deserve this, but none deserves
as much as The Shawshank Redemption. Splendid work of Frank Darabont
and another magnificent - but more than normal - work great actor
Morgan Freeman. The Shawshank Redemption is one of those films we will
pass to our children, is more one of those that we will remember
forever, everything in this film is perfect, nothing bad, all good, I
LOVE THIS MOVIE

******
11 January 2014
10
" The Shawshank Redemption " is a canvas on which was written the life
of Andy Dufresne, and his friend Red's . " The Shawshank Redemption "
unthinkable deep film as picture conceals a great deal, but as the
picture looks simple and homely . See " The Shawshank Redemption " and
can not see outside , you can drown in your thoughts during and after
watching the movie .Leisurely narrative film, slowly but surely moving from beginning to
end , making , believe it. This movie has the property that it looks
reliable , without any flaws , and always believe , for example, want
only reliable person as well and there is a sense of security to all
staged , in directing, in the actors that will not will believe that
once was really the story .Do I still did not seem one hundred forty two minutes so long . Feeling
that visited Shawshank itself that lived time in prison , which has a
feature not hurry. In such a situation , when time is not in a hurry ,
we can only think of. Yes, on this film , you only need to think , to
try to see what is hidden behind this simplicity . Finally, draw the
appropriate conclusions . I watched this movie a hundred times and
could swear that I can see as many more times .

******
11 January 2014
10
Easily the best movie I have ever seen. No matter what genres you're
into you'll love this movie. Whenever someone asks me for a movie
recommendation, this is my first suggestion every time! Morgan Freeman
and all the other actors played absolutely amazing. The music in this
movie is just unbelievable, it's just incredible how well the people
behind this movie managed to make the music highlight the mood. If you
take the time to notice the music, you'll understand why it made such a
difference for me. And when it comes to the story I have absolutely no
words. 'Great!' or even 'Fantastic!' won't come close to my experience
the first time I saw it. I think I was about 14. I didn't understand
all of the stuff, and why it happened, but I still thought it was the
greatest movie of all time. When I saw it again, a few years later, it
was even better. This is one of the types of movies that you can see a
ton of times and keeps getting better. You can see it one time as a kid
and see one moral behind the story, and see it as an adult and see a
whole other movie. So if you still hasn't watched the movie, you can't
go wrong with The Shawshank Redemption.

******
11 January 2014
8
I have to say: Yes, it is a great movie, but it came directly from a
short story wrote by Stephen King, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption...so if you read the story after the movie you'll find that
basically they use it as a script because there is not modification at
all. So the movie was good but did not received any big price due to in
this year it was in the same Oscar with Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction.
The story is very dramatic and started when a very smart bank vice
president is sent to prison because was found guilty in court to kill
his wife and her lover. In prison he would be facing very strong
situations as a smart accountant he is bringing a new face to the
prison and to his life.The director Frank Darabont also was in charge of the Script.

******
11 January 2014
10
It has set a example for other directors how high the benchmark should
be set.Perfect Picture and great actors.Morgan Freeman has done a great job which lifts the films to next
level.No words of the Hero acting he was perfect and wonderful in acting.Good Title for the movie made a stand alone title.Explains us anything can be if we have a clear plan and nothing is
impossible.Each and everyday help us to get better once its planned.

******
8 January 2014
9
Looking back at old classics , I remembered that I forgot to watch this
awesome movie.When I watched it , my heart stopped a bit making me feel
like that how I missed such a movie.First of all , the acting of Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins was above extraordinary.How Tim finds a new
life to get out when the world seems dark is a masterpiece concept
including his dialogue delivering at instances when depressing actions
occur from him.So, guys just watch it.Morgan Freeman is known for his acting in movies like Wanted.He also
played an important part in this movie.He played the role of a friend
to Tim Robbins.together how they work with each other is a thing that
is to be watched.bond knows no boundaries.I will not go about the
plot.But a deep level realizing the characters has to be there

******
6 January 2014
10
I have watched this film many times and I never feel bored. It is a
kind of film that make you feel that human has the potential to go
through all kinds of suffering. It makes you feel the strength within
human spirit and hope that never dies. After you see what the main
character did, you come and look at your life and find that it is not
that hard, we can keep on trying a little more. Impossible things can
be possible. Spirit doesn't have to be broken by cruelty or hardship.When I watched it, I would think "look at him, for all those years of
being imprisoned without doing wrong, for all those times of going
through evil people that treat him harshly, this man never gives up
fighting, never give up hoping and trying to find his freedom, and he
made it, and his strength even brought back the life and hope of
another person" Then, I would think...why don't I be more patient and
keep trying with my life, keep trying for my dream. Just do it again
and again, and one day I will get to where I want to be.Excellent film in every element of it. It's exciting, touching, and
moving. Highly recommended for all who have not watched. It's a
must-see for everyone.

******
4 January 2014
10
The movie just captivates the viewer from start to finish. Morgan
Freeman as "Red" is just perfect and gets the viewers attention from
the start. Just a great story, told in a smooth line and stays
interesting. Plot twists, double crossings, pin-up posters are all
there. The book written by Stephen King adapts well to the screen and
it deserves all the credit that is due. Its a long movie, which never
gets old and never gets boring. Some well known actors are included,
familiar faces and new faces. This movie has it all. In abundance.
There is a reason I am a huge fan of Morgan Freeman and this movie was
pretty much the start of it all. A brilliant actor, a compelling story,
what more can you ask for in a movie that is set in a prison. Shear
brilliance.

******
3 January 2014
10
Even though it may seem a film devoid of complexities of real life, it
is at the end of the day one of the best depictions of a tale about
friendship, hope and a strong sense of humanity. This movie may get
slow at the middle but if one can just sit back and watch, it makes the
final part of the movie that much more satisfying.The main reason for
this movie being so wonderful is that it succeeds in all aspects that
matter. The acting is nothing short of magnificent. No other set of
actors could have depicted the characters in the movie with the
subtlety required. Spectacular acting by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins
makes it one of the best movies ever made.

******
3 January 2014
10
There are standard ways to stage a prison film and standard ways to
tell a story by Stephen King. But "The Shawshank Redemption," based on
a King novella and set in the correctional institution of the title,
succeeds in avoiding the familiar.Without a single riot scene or horrific effect, it tells a slow, gentle
story of camaraderie and growth, with an ending that abruptly finds
poetic justice in what has come before. The writer and director, Frank
Darabont, tells this tale with a surprising degree of loving care.There are times when "The Shawshank Redemption" comes dangerously close
to sounding one of those "triumph of the human spirit" notes. But most
of it is eloquently restrained. Despite an excess of voice-over
narration and inspirational music, Mr. Darabont's film has a genuine
dignity that holds the interest. It is helped greatly by fine,
circumspect performances from Morgan Freeman as a rueful lifer named
Red and Tim Robbins as Andy, the new kid on the cellblock. The film
spans nearly 20 years of friendship between these two.When Andy is convicted of his wife's murder, the judge pronounces him
"a particularly remorseless and icy man." He sustains that chill when
he first arrives at Shawshank, remaining aloof from other inmates even
when those inmates threaten him with physical harm. "I wish I could
tell you that Andy fought the good fight," says Red, who knows Andy has
been gang-raped by fellow prisoners, in one of the film's only
halfway-brutal episodes. "I wish I could tell you that, but prison is
no fairy-tale world."Needless to say, the heroes of such stories usually do succeed in
defending themselves, at least when Hollywood is telling the fairy
tale. But "The Shawshank Redemption" has its own brand of iconoclasm,
with Mr. Darabont's direction as quiet, purposeful and secretive as
Andy is himself.Eventually Andy begins to fit in, especially after he wows the guards
with skills left over from his pre-prison banking career. From the
first time he advises one guard to make a one-time-only tax-free gift
to his wife, Andy gets a new lease on life as "a convicted murderer who
provides sound financial planning."Andy does special fiscal favors for the warden. ("You know, the funny
thing is, on the outside I was an honest man, straight as an arrow," he
says about this. "I had to come to prison to be a crook.") He also
makes the occasional dramatic gesture, like commandeering the prison's
loudspeaker and playing a Mozart aria for all his fellow inmates. The
film has a tendency to wax romantic at such moments, but more often it
sustains an intelligent reserve.Mr. Freeman is so quietly impressive here that there's reason to wish
Red's role had more range. As written, he spends his time observing
Andy fondly and describing prison life. But Mr. Freeman's commanding
presence makes him a much stronger figure than that. Mr. Freeman is
especially moving when he suggests how dependent Red has become on the
prison walls that give shape to his life. Even so, Red has kept his
ruefulness. "Only guilty man in Shawshank," he jokes about himself.Mr. Robbins has the trickier role of someone whose still waters run
deep, but whose experience doesn't add up until an exposition-packed
denouement. (The film's swift, enjoyably far-fetched closing scenes are
a sharp reminder of who is the author of this story, after all.) Andy's
is the more subdued role, but Mr. Robbins plays it intensely, and he
ages effectively from newcomer to father figure during the story. One
of Andy's projects is improving the prison library, which once
contained nothing but the equivalent of books by Stephen King.To raise funds for this undertaking, Andy is steady and patient,
writing weekly letters to state officials until he gets what he wants.
Mr. Darabont, a screenwriter making an impressive directorial debut,
works in much the same quietly persistent way. "The Shawshank
Conspiracy" takes shape slowly and carefully, displaying an overall
subtlety that's surprising in a movie of this genre. In the end, like
Andy and Red, it gets to where it wanted to go."The Shawshank Redemption" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying
parent or adult guardian). It includes profanity and occasional
violence, including a scene that discreetly suggests homosexual rape.THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION Written and directed by Frank Darabont, based
on the novella "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption," by Stephen
King; director of photography, Roger Deakins; edited by Richard
Francis- Bruce; music by Tom Newman; production designer, Terence
Marsh; produced by Niki Marvin; released by Columbia Pictures. Running
time: 142 minutes. This film is rated R. WITH: Morgan Freeman (Red),
Tim Robbins (Andy), Gil Bellows (Tommy), Clancy Brown (Captain Hadley),
Bob Gunton (Warden Norton), Mark Rolston (Bogs Diamond), William Sadler
(Heywood) and James Whitmore (Brooks Hatlen).

******
2 January 2014
10
What can I add to this film? So much people have already told all the
things about it. Neverless, if I can add my opinion, it could be that
for me, the Shawnshank Redemption, is among the top ten best films
ever. This movie deals with the conditions in the different jails around the
world through the story of an incredible character plaid by Tim Robbins
at the top of his art.If I can give you an advice it could be to look this film as soon as
possible. You will become better!I hope that after my review you will crave to look one of the best film
ever.

******
2 January 2014
10
A saw this movie, and it was truly amazing. This movie has all what a
movie needs. I love it. The movie is about a man who gets unfair put in
jail. Here he meets a man whom he befriends. After many years he turns
gradually to life in prison. But that does not prevent him for his plan
to escape. He makes accounting for the prison director as he once was a
banker. Warden becomes dependent on him, and doing all that he never
gets out of prison. But he is a very smart man and he thinks about
everything.Morgan Freeman is the companion he meets in prison, tells the story.
And with his deep credible voice, you assume right into the story. The
whole movie is just amazing. And it is well thought out down to the
smallest detail.

******
2 January 2014
10
First of all i want to start by saying that i am not the guy who would
sit on his computer and write a review about anything. However i felt
that ''The Shawshank Redemption'' was a movie that would
leave,everyone,and i mean EVERYONE stunned.Amazing acting,deep drama,an
excellent story and the feeling of that special something you cant
forget sum it all up for this masterpiece.I highly recommend you see
this movie which will leave a stigma in your mind.Mr. Morgan deserved
the Oscar for this one but unfortunately it went to Tom Hanks for
Forrest Gump.Don't get me wrong,both movies were excellent but i think
Shawshank is better overall.Undoublty my all time favourite movie,regardless of genre!

******
1 January 2014
10
Shawshank is unique in the genre and unlocked a new potential for movie
makers to break the inherent confines of a prison picture. So why is
Shawshank so popular and tops many best movie lists? Not hard to figure
out. The entertainment value is high and our empathy is heightened for
Andy and Red. It is deeper than most films; about continuity in a
lifetime, based on friendship and hope. Interesting that although the
hero of the film is the convicted former banker Andy Dufresne (Tim
Robbins), the action is never seen from his point of view. We move,
permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and
particularly Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman). From Andy's arrival
on the prison bus to the film's end, we see only how others see him -
Red, who becomes his best friend, Brooks the old librarian, the corrupt
Warden Norton, guards and prisoners. Red is our surrogate. He's the one
we identify with, and the redemption, when it comes, is Red's. We've
been shown by Andy's example that you have to keep true to yourself,
not lose hope, bide your time, set a quiet example and look for your
chance. "I guess it comes down to a simple choice, really," he tells
Red. "Get busy livin' or get busy dyin'."

******
1 January 2014
10
Shawshank Redemption is a very real film, beginning to tell a story of
an " innocent " person but make us think that he committed the crime
since the beginning . The main actor was convicted for a crime he did
not but that from the beginning he was planning his escape from prison
, trying to get in trust with the chief of the prison and the guards
also well felicitated the realization of his plan . In addition to
planning his escape he helped a lot in prison who was convicted, to
people that it was with him, and also built a library. Spent many years
working to excavate the tunnel to escape , managed to free himself from
that place leaving evidence that the head of the prison was a criminal
who was arrested by the police . Before his escape , he left some clues
for " best friend " with which he was sentenced for them to meet when
the second out of prison . This story is very exciting and for those
who did not see this movie should do it because it makes us think about
our life and we have to cherish every moment .

******
1 January 2014
10
Shawshank Redemption is a prison movie done right. With both the story
and technical aspects of the film at the highest caliber, it delivers a
powerful tale that is timeless. Star Morgan Freeman gives a great
performance, but Tim Robbins undeniably delivers. From the lighting to
score, one cannot help but appreciate this fine example of a powerful
adaptation at its finest. It is a beautiful piece of history and takes
its place among the best. Even the pacing of the story is well placed
to give a sense of hopelessness within the prison, but not dragging on
and prolonging confinement. The creativity and originality behind this
leaves viewers in awe of a great film.

******
31 December 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and
directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who
spends 19 years in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife
and her lover despite his claims of innocence. During his time at the
prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, and
finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him
in his money laundering operation.Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its
budget, the film received multiple award nominations and favorable
reviews from critics for its acting and realism. It has since enjoyed a
remarkable life on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray. It was
included in the American Film Institute's 100 Years...100 Movies 10th
Anniversary Edition. [2]

******
31 December 2013
10
Nothing to say regarding this movie. Yea best of the best. No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.Frank Darabont didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special
effects to get us to love this film, the narration and the acting does
that for him. Why this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me,
but don't let that sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on
the IMDb's top 250 list sway you.The Shawshank Redemption served as a message of hope to Hollywood as
well. More than any film in memory, it proved there is life after box
office. Besting Forrest and Fiction, it ran solely on strong word of
mouth and became the hottest rented film of 1995Thank you.

******
30 December 2013
10
This movie is based on a novel by Stephen King, but don't let that put
you off. It's not a horror film, rather a thumpingly good ode to
friendship, hope, wit, wiles and wisdom, brimming with crackling
characters and topped with the most twisteroo of twists since The
Crying Game. Found guilty of killing his unfaithful wife and her lover
in a fit of passion, sullen accountant Andy Dufresne (Robbins, casting
off his goof ball image to display more layers than the proverbial
onion) is shipped to the Gothic wind-swept corridors of the Shawshank
State Prison for life. It is here the movie gracefully unfolds. With a
beautifully rounded script, writer/director Darabont conjures up a
spellbinding personal odyssey stretching through the years from 1946 to
1967. Dufresne, all the while protesting his innocence, slowly overcomes the
hellfire tortures of the prison system - an unblinking range of
beatings, rapings and abject humiliations - while managing to inspire
his fellow inmates to lift their degraded horizons. Among them is Red
(Freeman, in a matchless supporting role), the lifer who can, given
time, provide virtually anything. And for reasons best known to
himself, Dufresne requires 40s starlet Rita Hayworth, provisioned in
poster form. The mood swings rigorously through every emotion as the cranky, wiseguy
and downright crazed array of criminals bare the brunt of the turbulent
life within the doomy Shawshank catacomb. Then it gets really mean,
gearing up for its injury-time shockers. Dufresne, a whiz with figures,
is bullied into running the warden's (Gunton) petty accounting scams,
giving him the chance to execute his and the film's final, greatest
miracle. If you're miserable enough to look for gripes then, yes, it does drift
on too long and who needs prison buggery again? Yet the ending has such
poetic completeness you're too busy contentedly chuckling to worry
about sore behinds. This may have confounded American audiences - it
flopped big-time on planet Yank - but a more divine movie experience
you will not find this side of Oscardom. Spread the word.

******
30 December 2013
10
The first time that I saw this movie was in my film class last semester
in college. The teacher was supposed to play Pulp Fiction and changed
his mind at the last minute. Most of us we're not very happy and didn't
want to see a 2+ hour film about a guy in prison. When the movie let
out everybody literally cheered. Shawshank has the amazing ability that
most films lack to grab our attentions and keep it for such a long
length of time. It also has the ability to make out spirits soar unlike
any other film. No matter how low you are, when you are done watching
Shawshank you are ready to fly. Amazing acting, flawless directing and
a perfect story make this film a must see for anybody who enjoys
movies. A perfect 10!

******
30 December 2013
10
This movie has got to be one of my all time favorites. At one point i
had a broken DVD player and this DVD was stuck in the machine for
almost a whole summer. Didn't even matter to me because it just gave me
a great excuse to watch this wonderful movie over and over again. I
will never not love this movie. Morgan Freeman's voice and character
alone never failed to warm my bones. Shawshank is overall a classic that will be around for years to come.
It encompasses many moral values that most people don't think twice
about. It's got crazy and heart sulking relationships, and you will
have no other choice but to empathize with the main character. If you haven't seen this glorious film yet you must lock yourself in a
room somewhere until you witness this amazing classic.

******
30 December 2013
10
The best film I have ever seen. Period. No other film in history has
come closer to perfection. In terms of the acting, the screen-writing,
the directing, the music, the plot and its various sub-plots... The
story in general is heart-warming and inspiring, portraying both the
best and the worst of mankind. There are few films that I can watch
over and over again without getting bored, but Shawshank Redemption
more than any other movie does that for me. Even when I watch it for
the umpteenth time at some point in 2014, I can guarantee that I will
still feel the same goosebumps when Andy memorably advises Red to 'get
busy living' or get busy dying', and the same upsurge of warmth,
emotion, happiness and relief when Red is finally granted parole and he
re-unites with Andy in the final scene. Perfection, perfection,
perfection. 10/10

******
29 December 2013
10
So in the beginning I wasn't anticipated to watch this movie. I judged
it would be slow, uninteresting, and overrated with people jumping the
bandwagon of how good it was. But as I was seeing how the movie was
unfolding, I was surprised to see how interesting it really was. There
wasn't a dull moment of it. I was pleased with how the ending made me
feel. I think the big thing about this movie is how it captures your
emotions. The actors were great, and the story was great too. Overall I
give it a 9.5. But I do think this is one of the best movies I've ever
watched. It is definitely in my top three. Don't let the title stop you
from watching it if it sounds boring to you. This is a movie I would
watch over and over again. It does live up to the hype.

******
29 December 2013
10
This is certainly one of the best movies I've ever seen.. It's one of
those movies worth to watch 10 times, and every time feel the same when
the movie ends...The key of this film and its good position on IMDb
list is not about its main role - Andy, it is about our relationship
with him - our curiosity and our admiration. People like excitement at
the movies, and this is the movie with good life lesson, offers the
hope, the great feeling.. It is not about the story, its all about that
feeling, when you are in your sofa, watching the movie for 2 hours..
and after the movie ends, you stand up and say: What a movie!And what is the best, watching the film again, you admire it even more
than the first time you saw it. My best recommendation :)

******
29 December 2013
10
without doubt, the only movie that i would like to watch again and
again... even surpassed the GodFatherOne can watch it while eating, watch it while watching TV... watch it
while playing, you can watch it while you are doing any other thing and
you will still find the time to stop whatever you are doing and focus
on your little screen that's previewing this special astonishing piece
of art and sit down on your knees to continue it till the endAn Astonishing performance for Morgan freeman, simply this movie
actually made me want to go to jail, just to have a simple taste of the
experience they had, every single bit of it, I love the writer, he is
simply a genius.I recommend it to be watched,if you didn't you're missing a great deal
and a huge leap in your Manliness Personality to be jumped, in my
opinion such movies are needed.

******
28 December 2013
10
This movie is not just brilliant but it's rather a thumpingly good ode
to friendship, hope, wit, wiles and wisdom, brimming with crackling
characters and topped with the most twisteroo of twists since The
Crying Game. Found guilty of killing his unfaithful wife and her lover
in a fit of passion, sullen accountant Andy Dufresne (Robbins, casting
off his goofball image to display more layers than the proverbial
onion) is shipped to the Gothic wind-swept corridors of the Shawshank
State Prison for life. It is here the movie gracefully unfolds. With a
beautifully rounded script, writer/director Darabont conjures up a
spellbinding personal odyssey stretching through the years. want to
know more go watch it.

******
27 December 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption isn't your average movie with big explosions,
gun fights, or super heroes instead its just a simple movie about a
friendship that forms between two prisoners each serving a life
sentence for murder. My favorite thing about the movie is all of the
remember able quotes that you can take from it. Mine is a conversation
between the district attorney and Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) the
conversation goes like this District Attorney: "And that also is very
convenient, isn't it, Mr. Dufresne"? Andy: "Since I am innocent of this
crime, sir, I find it decidedly inconvenient that the gun was never
found." Out of all of the amazing quotes from this movie this is my
favorite because it says early in the film the this character can be
funny even at his own murder trial and he can be a little sarcastic to.
Another reason I really enjoyed the film was watching how the writers
of the movie developed the relationship of Red (Morgan Freeman) and
Andy overtime. The first time Red saw Andy he says "I didn't think much
of Andy the first time I saw him", but they would develop a very strong
friendship as the movie goes on. Every character in this movie is
different from any other character in someway. Red is seems to be wise,
nice, and doesn't ever stress out ever. Andy is clever, smart, and what
seems to be a good person. Warden Norton seems to be evil,
manipulative, and controlling. Something that is a bit ironic from this
movie is that most the prisoners seem to nice guys while Norton and the
guards seem to be the real criminals I thought it was inserting that
makers of the movie decided to kind of change the ways we are used to
seeing things. The thing the movie shows the best is that with time
everything can change for example Andy was once just a banker until he
he went to prison and meet Red which probably was the most meaningful
thing he ever did in his life. Although the story may look like your
same old prison movie its not it has many unexpected twist through out
the whole movie. Most films you watch today just focus on action and
big name actors but, this isn't one of those movies it gives real
attention to the story being to told and even two friends talking in
the prison yard will have you on the edge of your seat and wondering
what is going to happen next. This is one of those movie you watch 5
times and still enjoyed it and catch something new you hadn't noticed
before. This movie will be talked about for many many more years ahead
and will never get old. The Shawshank Redemption was nominated more 7
Oscars and in my opinion has the best acting of any film I have ever
seen. So if you feel like taking a break from your normal blockbuster
movie and sees and movie that tells a great story of hope and
friendship then I would highly recommend watching this movie.

******
27 December 2013
10
To me this is one of the best told prison movies ever made. After
watching the Blue Ray Version - it is more than a prison movie too.
While Morgan Freeman's performance and narration are tour DE force, the
support cast is outstanding. Even the ancient James Whitmore has a good
role in this one.I noted on the credits that Steven King contributed to his writing
being converted into a movie. There is no doubt this one benefits from
that. Tim Robbins is at the top of his game here too. Frank Darabont
directs and writes this movie and the viewer gets the feeling that the
director pictured how the story should be told when he wrote it along
with when he directed it.This movie is the ultimate trip about injustice and justice within the
prison system. It draws deep characters for each role which seem to
take advantage of each cast members skills. It also is a the ultimate
triumph over despair. Bob Gunton gets kudos from here for his role as
the warden.When your looking for a movie to watch, there are few to beat this
picture as this one just turned out perfect. If every film were this
well done, they would all be best pictures.

******
26 December 2013
10
this is one of the most incredible movies ever. it is very well done
and has a lot of suspense and drama. Morgan freeman is incredible, as
always and never stops to amaze. my favorite movie ever. i recommend
this movie to everyone. when red doesn't kill himself but instead says
that red was here i was so happy. and that whole thing where they meet
on the beach at the end is so amazing and i was thrilled. it is
perfectly acted and done with exquisite directing. i am so in love with
this movie because it is so perfect and incredible. the authenticity is
incredible. and how can i write a review without mentioning the
greatest twist ever? he escapes and you are like "what?!"

******
25 December 2013
10
Years go by, and this is still my favorite movie of all time!
Everything is perfect! Image, sound, history, message, really
everything! I almost can't putt in words my feeling about this movie!
Every time I watch "Shawshank Redemption" I cried, I laugh, it's just a
motion of feels! Believe me, if you love cinema, you really need to
watch this movie, because, there's something in him, that makes you
believe that you can do everything, every problem is your life, you can
get it thought!"Shawshank Redemption" is the perfect example that, life.....is really
a movie!

******
25 December 2013
9
The Shawshank Redemption is an uplifting, deeply satisfying prison
drama with sensitive direction and fine performances.Darabont
constructs the film to observe the story, not to punch it up or upstage
it. Upstaging, in fact, is unknown in this film; the actors are content
to stay within their roles, the story moves in an orderly way, and the
film itself reflects the slow passage of the decades. "When they put
you in that cell," Red says, "when those bars slam home, that's when
you know it's for real. Old life blown away in the blink of an eye.
Nothing left but all the time in the world to think about it." Watching
the film again, I admired it even more than the first time I saw it.
Affection for good films often grows with familiarity, as it does with
music. Some have said life is a prison, we are Red, Andy is our
redeemer. All good art is about something deeper than it admits.

******
24 December 2013
10
It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but
"The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because
it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us vicarious
experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and
looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in
the story of men who have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper
than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship
and hope.Interesting that although the hero of the film is the convicted former
banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is never seen from his
point of view. The film's opening scene shows him being given two life
sentences for the murder of his wife and her lover, and then we move,
permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and
particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman). It is his
voice remembering the first time he saw Andy ("looked like a stiff
breeze would blow him over"), and predicting, wrongly, that he wouldn't
make it in prison.From Andy's arrival on the prison bus to the film's end, we see only
how others see him - Red, who becomes his best friend, Brooks the old
librarian, the corrupt Warden Norton, guards and prisoners. Red is our
surrogate. He's the one we identify with, and the redemption, when it
comes, is Red's. We've been shown by Andy's example that you have to
keep true to yourself, not lose hope, bide your time, set a quiet
example and look for your chance. "I guess it comes down to a simple
choice, really," he tells Red. "Get busy living' or get busy dying'."The key to the film's structure, I think, is that it's not about its
hero, but about our relationship with him - our curiosity, our pity,
our admiration. If Andy had been the heroic center, bravely enduring,
the film would have been conventional, and less mysterious. But we
wonder about this guy. Did he really kill those two people? Why does he
keep so much to himself? Why can he amble through the prison yard like
a free man on a stroll, when everyone else plods or sidles?People like excitement at the movies, and titles that provide it do
well. Films about "redemption" are approached with great wariness; a
lot of people are not thrilled by the prospect of a great film - it
sounds like work. But there's a hunger for messages of hope, and when a
film offers one, it's likely to have staying power even if it doesn't
grab an immediate audience.

******
24 December 2013
9
i have watched this movie so many times i just can not remember how
many time i saw this legendary movie i can say just one word to this
amazing movie just amazing. The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American
drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman Release date: September 23, 1994 (USA)
Director: Frank Darabont Adapted from: Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption Story by: Stephen King Characters: Andy Dufresne, Warden
Norton, Brooks Hatlen, More Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita
Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy
Dufresne, a banker who spends 19 years in Shawshank State Prison for
the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence.
During his time at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd
"Red" Redding, and finds himself protected by the guards after the
warden begins using him in his money laundering operation.

******
24 December 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption Is one of the best movie i ever seen. The
patience of a person no one could ever imagine and all about
hope.simply its great.The character of Tim Robbins are good but the
Voice of Morgan freeman is magical and made this film classical and the
whole story line is awesome...the whole cinematic and direction is too
good.Specially the scene where Morgan freeman said that if he want to break
in this small tool it would take around years to break.And the words The first night's the toughest, no doubt about it. They
march you in naked as the day you were born, skin burning and half
blind from that delousing they throw on you, and when they put you in
that cell... and those bars slam home... that's when you know it's for
real. A whole life blown away in the blink of an eye.

******
22 December 2013
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty
-- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the
subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving
life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off
despair.The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest bus load of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.

******
22 December 2013
10
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul

******
21 December 2013
9
I watched this tonight for the first time in a few years. It really is
superb! Redemption is such a good word. I love the groundwork that goes
into the best executed escape ever - the 'this is how I did it' bit is
so pleasing!! It's so satisfying to watch when everyone gets their just
desserts!! I really like that the story is told through the eyes of
red. I like the idea of institutionalization, and the struggle that
prisoners face when they leave prison - Brooks story is so sad. I love
the pure bliss of Tim Robbins when he does something good for his
inmates. And I love the end, so perfect and happy and hopeful! Never
disappoints :)

******
21 December 2013
10
Watched the whole film without stopping for a moment. From the start to
the end this film is just awesome. Can't find any weak point of its.
The whole 142 minutes my eyes were attached to the screen. Actors have
done their best work of their life. Hats off to 'Tim Robbins' & 'Morgan
Freeman'. The director 'Frank Darabont' undoubtedly made a masterpiece.
Its an epic kinda film. Its has all the things of a 'Fantastic' type
film. A good story filled with thrill, emotion, drama, suspense
everything. It's may not possible to watch any film like this again.
Its never gonna be old ever. A watchable movie for all viewers of any
edges.

******
21 December 2013
10
This move is remarkable every time I watch it. The cinematography,
music, character development and everything the movie captures only
happens so often. In the beginning you watch as Anthony's wife cheats
on him and implies he's the murderer. When in court you have mixed
feelings. Did he murder his wife and lover? all the evidence is there.
Though how Anthony presented himself shows what kind of character he
is. As he enters Shawshank, I personally got a sickening feeling of
what he was about to experience. Though excitement too. How was this
man going to survive a prison. When Morgan Freeman's Character ( Red )
enters the story, he speaks so much of routine and what the life.
Breaking reality from fantasy when he says " There's no fairy tales in
Shawshank " implying everything you fear what would happened. Did
happen. Although, one of the most uplifting parts is with Anthony
breaks free. He sends a letter to Red telling him " Hope is a good
thing. It's never wrong to hope. Good things don't die" This message
speaks so profoundly, after Brooks death and the dependency on
Shawshank. That message speak so profoundly. This movie is more than a 10/10. It captures everything it wants and
needs to then some. I highly recommend this movie to anyone and
everyone who enjoys a good film.

******
20 December 2013
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont. ~ Mark Deming, Rovi

******
18 December 2013
10
Before seeing this movie i was not so profound of Hollywood movies.I
prefer,like anyone else in the world to see movies in my own mother
tongue.I didn't even know what the title was.I am happy that i was
patient enough to check this movie.This movie by all means is
philosophical and brilliant.Tim Robbins and Morgan freeman chemistry
was just brilliant.screenplay was so good.I always say to my friends
"movies,songs,dialogue that keep lingering in our mind" are the ones
which we feel for it.I felt more than that after seeing this movie.I
spoke about it to everyone as much as i could.If you are patient enough
you will get to understand it better.I watched it a number of times
still after the end of the movie i feel extremely confident every time.I am disappointed that this particular movie didn't fetch a single
Oscar.But as more people see this they will understood that good movie
doesn't require any accolade.Truly a stunning movie! My favorite movie
also.....10/10

******
17 December 2013
9
This is one of the best movies I ever watched. Everything is perfect.
It's one those movies that you must see once in your life.So, so, so good. The adaptation of the Stephen King novel is so
entertaining, filled with interesting dialogue and plot twists. A
pretty much perfect prison film. Great performances by Robbins and
Freeman. One moment really got to me: the moment when Andy crawls out
of the sewer tunnel and stares up at the sky in the rain. Such a
glorious moment of triumph, I wanted to stand up and scream "Yes!".
This movie truly depicted that prison life in the fifties was just as
hard for new prisoners as it is implied today. The movie didn't sugar
coat Andy's prison life. A great movie full of great writing and
performances that the first time you watch it, it will instantly be
fortified as a great movie classic

******
17 December 2013
8
The Shawshank Redemption is a good movie. It has a good story and good
acting. Though I don 't think that the movie is good enough to be at
the top of the 250 list at IMDb. I think that it is a great "prison
movie" but it's so similar to other books and movies like Midnight
Express or The Escape From Alcatraz. A "prison movie" that is much
better but doesn't get the glory and credibility is The Green Mile
witch made me more emotional and excited. Compared with The Shawshank
Redemption, The Green mile has a better storyline and most important an
original prison story.The Shawshank Redemption is about man called Andy who is being wrongly
accused for a crime that he didn't do. He was given two life sentences
for killing his wife and her lover in cold blood. Therefore he is being
sent to Shawshank Prison. Andy learns to adapt to prison life and he
meets knew friends, but also enemies. The life in prison is hard and he
meets a lot of obstacles as the story goes.As I said earlier, it is a good movie and you should see it if you
haven't. However in my opinion it is too unoriginal and safe for the
best film in history as many other think. By saying safe I mean that
the director could have done something that had made me remember the
film. Something out of the ordinary. Instead of the "escape prison"
unoriginality. Cause now I think it's just a bland movie.Another thing that I think the movie misses is more fighting and crime.
Isn't this a prison? Should it not have any sort of violent behavior?
Sure Andy fights of a bunch of enemies in a few short scenes, but I
don't think that that's enough. The thing is that Andy's enemies are
the only bad guys in the whole movie. At least of what we see in this
film. The film could have exploited more violence and crime, but
instead we get a nice old man that feeds his bird. Andy's friends are
so nice that I sometimes feel like they are workmates instead of
committed criminals. When they are out in the yard all convicts are
just playing ball and talking like they are having a lunch brake. I
don't mean that all prisoners should just fight and swear but it could
have least been one fight seen in the yard so you get a bit more of
that prison feeling.In conclusion it's a good movie with some flaws. It's has many good
scenes. Though in my opinion it fails because of its blandness and
unoriginality. They should have put more effort in making something
more memorable.Based on my judgment it's a 8/10 and I think that it's a fare rating.
It should have its title in the top 250, but not the number one.//Swedish Critic

******
16 December 2013
10
My review will be short and simple.This movie deserves to be number one in the IMDb top list. It is very
much worth watching. I saw it when it was new and now, years later, it
still has the same power. It is a timeless masterpiece.The writing, the acting, the emotion are all superb. The story and
characters draw you in and keep you captivated form the beginning of
the movie right up until the end.I will not discuss the contents of the story as I do not want to post
accidental spoilers. I can honestly say, if you haven't seen this movie
already you need to go out and watch it right now.

******
15 December 2013
10
This movie was amazing. I have never seen such a good movie. Morgan
freeman was amazing in it, sad he died in the end tho. The same goes
with the other guy that looked like Keith from OTH but didn't look like
him when close. Great movie. I cannot believe that twist ending I think
there was like 20-30 people crying out loud in the cinema and I think
one of them was transferred to the hospital because he was chocked, oh
my god this movie was fantastic, I cannot believe how great it was. I
have watched it 2 times and it was even better the second time because
then you noticed small little tiny details that you did in fact not
notice the first time you watched this masterpiece of a movie, I wish
every movie was like this because then I would watch everything and
then just review it the same as this one. Never has there been such a
good movie. 10/10 Great acting, great story, amazing everything.

******
14 December 2013
10
Shawshank Redemption is quite possibly the best movie ever made. This
includes all time frames and genres. There are no flaws in this story;
only brilliance. It's simply a remarkable story. It's a timepiece
feature with an amazing cast. Character development is top-notch. The
story line and delivery are extraordinary. I wish I could re- watch
this movie over again as if I had never seen it before, so do yourself
a favor... if you're watching this movie or plan to watch this movie
for the first time... turn off your phone, dim the lights and be
prepared to be amazed. It's an enriching story with adult content that
is suitable for older kids. You will laugh. You will cry. You will get
angry. And... you will feel love, hope and redemption unlike any movie
you have ever seen before. Shawshank Redemption is unforgettable.

******
14 December 2013
9
excellent movie in all aspects . What more one need from a movie .Heart
throbbing drama with wonderful performances ever seen on a cinema
screen .no flaws whatsoever with an amazing ending . cinematography n
story goes hand in hand with powerful direction . Amazing drama with a
suspenseful end . I watched the whole movie without getting bored for 1
second . music of the movie is better than great . thumbs up for the
performance of Tim Robbins who does even better work from Morgan
freeman .It is a flawless movie .With no boring scenes or long talking sessions
this movie is a ten on ten . loved it in every way . there is no way
that anyone can hate a drama flick like this . in last its a
Masterpiece of Masterpiece .

******
14 December 2013
10
This has to be one of the best movies I have ever watched! No movie
real or fictional will ever face up to this one! I had never seen this
movie until about 3 or 4 months ago and I had also heard so much about
it, having watched it I've listened and heard it everywhere only good
things and people saying it is the best movie ever and I 100% agree it
is the best movie ever. There are some brilliant and creative movies
out there but this movie really appeals to all our senses and is
magnificent. I don't know how the writers even came up with such a good
storyline. Also well done to the actors who played such a good part in
the movie and made it come to life on the big screen. One of my fave
actors was in it which made it for me and that was Morgan Freeman! I
love his voice and I truly admire his acting skills. As a director and
cameraman I admire the fantastic work of the cameramen and the
brilliant directing. Well done to everyone involved in this movie, I
imagine they are very proud of what they have created and indeed they
should be!

******
11 December 2013
10
Frank Darabont's work is amazing in this movie let alone Stephen king,
incredible ... Since Tim Robbins (Andy) is in that car at night until
Morgan freeman (Red) arrives at the Mexican beach all a thrill,
intrigue you see on the screen. Geologist's hammer, the Rita Hayworth
poster hanging on the wall in a miserable prison cell Shawshank an
incredible idea of Stephen. For my part the movie is the best thing and
seen the movie that hooked me more of screen a movie with 14 years
spent enough. A life lesson that shows what can happen to oneself from
one day to the other just to make a nonsense. Finally, Some 20 years
turned into 2 hours, I recommend this movie to movie lovers. Greetings.German!

******
11 December 2013
10
This is my favorite movie of all time and there is a good reason for
it. When i was still in my early teens i would only watch action movies
and would disregard any drama movie, i could not understand why anyone
would want to watch a movie like this. one day there were no action
movies on TV and me being bored i was skipping franticly through the TV
guide, i could not find anything worth my time, i thought. And then i
got to a movie that got rated 5 stars! I could not believe this, i had
never seen a movie in the TV guide get rated 5 stars not even the
action movies i enjoyed so much which surprised me at the time. So me
scratching my face with boredom i decided to watch this movie because
after all there has to be something to this movie it being rated 5
stars and all. as the movie was going along it was so calming and
smooth that today this day i cannot find the right words to describe
it- it felt like it was never going to end but, i didn't wanted it to
end it! it was incredible, this movie expanded my motion-picture
viewing to whole new levels. Therefore it will always be my favorite
movie.P.S Sorry for my English-writing, I'm dutch.

******
10 December 2013
10
Undeniably one of the most thrilling and memorably movies ever seen.
Promise. The ability for them to put together a concept of both drama
hate, love and suspense was intense. I would only hope to see movies
like this in the future.Undeniably one of the most thrilling and
memorably movies ever seen. Promise. The ability for them to put
together a concept of both drama hate, love and suspense was intense. I
would only hope to see movies like this Undeniably one of the most
thrilling and memorably movies ever seen. Promise. The ability for them
to put together a concept of both drama hate, love and suspense was
intense. I would only hope to see movies like this in the future the
future

******
10 December 2013
10
The reason I became a member of this database is because I finally
found a movie ranking that recognized the true greatness of this movie.
There is nary a word or scene out of place in the entire thing. Every
element comes together to form an exquisite story for cinema. I believe
that one reason that this movie is under-appreciated is that people
have not seen it multiple times. On first viewing it is the story of
Andy Dufresne and his struggle to maintain hope despite his
circumstances. However, this is really a movie about Red and his
struggle to find meaning and purpose. The final segment of the movie
testifies to the fact that the final resolution of the story comes
about only when Red is faced with the same fearful situation as Brooks.
Because of Andy, Red can find a different path-the path of freedom that
is lit by hope. Who is your Andy Dufresne?

******
10 December 2013
8
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best films I ever watched. I
normally do not like watching films about prisons. However, This film
changed my opinion. It was boring and a usual prison based movie at the
very beginning. It keeps you watching as you watching. I would
recommend to keep watching the whole movie in order to understand
fully.I would in fact recommend you to watch for several times. As you watch
again you see different things.It has a great storyline. The pace of the film changes. Cast are nicely
chosen. And actors act very well. It has an adventurous story. Although
most of the film is about prison life, it surprises the audience by
freedom at the end.Costumes were chosen nicely as well. I felt time travelling through
watching the film. I do not know if I needed to comment on this too.
However, when ever I watch a film I watch in detail.Performance, costume, location, reality, story, picture and sound
quality are very important for me. I can tell you I have seen good
quality in most of the above mentioned aspects.

******
10 December 2013
9
Frank Darabont directed this superb adaptation of the Stephen King
novella that stars Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne, a young banker who was
wrongfully convicted for the murders of his wife and her boyfriend.
Upon arrival at Shawshank prison in Maine, he keeps to himself mostly,
causing no trouble, though does befriend long-time inmate "Red'
Redding(played by Morgan Freeman) who teaches him the ropes of prison
life, though the unwanted attentions of degenerate inmates pushes poor
Andy to the edge of despair, until his financial skills as a banker
prove most useful to both the corrupt Captain of the guards(played by
Clancy Brown) and corrupt warden(played by Bob Gunton) until Andy hits
upon a most clever escape plan... Now legendary film that sits atop the
IMDb best film list is indeed a worthy film(though not my pick!) Still,
done with remarkable skill on every filmmaking level. Could be viewed
as an allegory of Christianity, but is indeed an uplifting story of
friendship and the human spirit. Supporting characters(except for the
one played by James Whitmore) aren't that appealing, but aren't
intended to be either! Perfect ending as well.

******
9 December 2013
10
No spoilers. Just watch this movie. Must watch movie and the best
adaption from Stephen king short story. -- a movie which better
describes about hope. -- watched it countless times and will watch
again. i am not actually fond of crime movies but The Shawshank
Redemption is one of its kind which kind of proved that wrong to me.
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins with their best performances. adapted
from short story --Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption i consider
this as the best adaption yet. The Green mile is somewhat from the same
team but not impressed. The Shawshank Redemption will be one of my best
movie of all time 10/10 -Amazing.

******
8 December 2013
7
This brain scratching movie is classic story. Must watch movie for
classic movie fans. The story begins with the trial of a young banker,
Andy Dufrense, victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a
conviction for the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick
conviction, Andy finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank
prison, with no hope of parole. He exists in this prison only in
appearance, keeping his mind free from the drab walls around him. His
ability to do this results in the gaining of respect from his fellow
inmates, but most of all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred
to as Red, finds gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the
drab walls of Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare
to the confines of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope
causes Red to take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him.
Andy proves to Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls
of Shawshank prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.

******
8 December 2013
8
The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt one of the most brilliant
movies I have ever seen. Similar to The Green Mile in many respects
(and better than it in almost all of them), these two movies have shown
us that Stephen King is a master not only of horror but also of prose
that shakes the soul and moves the heart. The plot is average, but King
did great things with it in his novella that are only furthered by the
direction, and the acting is so top-rate it's almost scary.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrane, wrongly imprisoned for 20 years for the
murder of his wife. The story focuses on Andy's relationship with "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman, in probably his best role) and his attempts to
escape from Shawshank. Bob Gunton is positively evil and frightening as
Warden Norton, and there are great performances and cameos all around;
the most prominent one being Gil Bellows (late as Billy of Ally McBeal)
as Tommy, a fellow inmate of Andy's who suffers under the iron will of
Norton.If you haven't seen this movie, GO AND RENT IT NOW. You will not be
disappointed. It is positively the best movie of the '90's, and one of
my Top 3 of all time. This movie is a spectacle to move the mind, soul,
and heart. 10/10

******
6 December 2013
10
The first time, i saw this movie, i had a big smile in my face, because
of the excellent ending of the movie. It's a high Quality movie in
every sense. I do like that story, the writing is great. I think, the
movie is even better than the book of Steven King. The directing is
great. The cut is perfect, the art direction is great. The Sound and
Soundtrack fits perfect into the movie. I don't know even one aspect,
why i should not like it. It's the all time number one for me. That
means, it is my absolute first place. The perfect movie! It's a great
film about humanity under bad conditions. So everyone can see, that
even in bad places is humanity. And even if there are bad People who
want to break humanity between others with their might and power, they
can't really destroy it. And the movie knocks down facades of
deceitfulness. I like that! Sorry, if my English is bad. It's not my
mother language. :) Greetings. :)

******
6 December 2013
10
There are excellent movies that people say excellent. There are some
best ones that people say the best. There are good movies that people
say good. There are sad ones that people cry. There are funny ones and
awesome ones. But, this movie made a meaning to the word excellent.
Morgan freeman has given his best on this piece of excellent. Tim
Robins is living in the role. This movie has sad, happy, anger, good,
bad, best, better, worst, kind of, neutral, freedom. The viewers mind
is connecting to the movie which makes the viewer to live in the
situation. The old man's death part is the painful and ever remembering
moment. The Shawshank Redemption is excellent.

******
3 December 2013
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is one of those rare films that ages better
with time. This movie was a beautifully crafted story on friendship,
redemption and hope. The storyline was really well-crafted, and putting
in these unforgettable characters made it even better. From Red to Andy
to Norton, they we're all just wonderful and enjoyable characters,
especially Red and Andy. The relationship between those two is what
really holds the balance of the movie. And putting in characters such
as Warden Norton and Captain Hadley makes the story riveting and (in a
sense) dark. It's not like any other movie out there. Overall, it's a
classic Stephen King story

******
2 December 2013
7
Robbins and Freeman have the juice as actors to make figuring out
whether Andy and Red really did it a riveting guessing game, especially
if you're a sucker for prison melodramas. Writer Frank Darabont (The
Fly II), in his feature-directing debut, doesn't skimp on the
caged-bird clichés, sadistic and sentimental, but he plays enough
hardball with the formula to evoke memories of such goodies as Cool
Hand Luke, Birdman of Alcatraz and Riot in Cell Block II.Stephen King wrote the novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption, on which the film is based. (Andy's cell is bedecked with a
poster of Hayworth in all her Gilda glory.) You can find the novella in
a 1982 King collection, Different Seasons, along with a story, "The
Body," that became the, basis for the 1986 Rob Reiner smash Stand by

******
2 December 2013
10
I decided to make a review about a fantastic film, which I personally
think it should deserve a lot better, it was forced to be re-released
to reach more than the budget. The Shawshank redemption a movie
directed by Frank Darabont The Shawshank Redemption is an American
drama film made by writer Stephen King from the beginning, with Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman in the lead roles. The film is about the
successful banker Andy ( Tim Robbins ) who is wrongly convicted for
murder of his wife and her lover. He is sent to Shawshank Prison for
life. This is one of the toughest prisons in the United States during
the 1940s. There he meets Red ( Morgan Freeman ) as they quickly
becomes very good friends. Years after years Andy just gets more and
more famous among the guards, and the prisoners, and it ends with Andy
helps a guard to get $ 25,000 as a gift. Then the police- officer
Norton realizes that Andy might be useful, so he started taking care of
the prison economy. It causes him to get control of what happens in the
prison and it gives him great opportunities to escape from the prison.
The film has a strong and important purpose that you should never give
up and always have hopes for what will happen. That trust is a big
impact on relationships, The film can be viewed by anyone of any age
and it is a very good and interesting movie. It defiantly deserves
better because it is a touching movie and very inspiring.

******
1 December 2013
9
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
1 December 2013
10
Excellent inspirational movie to watch... extreme worth to spent time
on this Forget about what others (including myself) might suggest
you'll discover in "The Shawshank Redemption;" when you watch it,
you'll identify something very personal in your own life with a scene,
a character, or a moment in this uncomplicated movie. When you need
hope, you'll look for Shawshank. When you want to believe in the will
of overcoming even the greatest obstacles, Shawshank will uplift you in
ways that you can't find in movies today. Some liken the film to some kind of spiritual awakening. Of course,
some can go to a church or mosque to find enlightenment and Faith in
humanity, but most places of worship are open only certain days or
times. But when you need affirmation of the lasting bond of friendships
that prevail over the most dire circumstances, Shawshank will give it
to you. It makes grown men (like me) cry, still. I wonder whether
Shawshank was truly meant for viewing in the privacy of the home,
because it is a personal experience that really makes you look inward.
Nominated for seven, this is the best film that never one a single
Oscar. How ironic that an innocent man winds up being surrounded by the
corruption of the legal system. Shawshank itself is similar to the
character of Andy Dufresne. Prejudging this classic film, critics
couldn't get past the title. The public followed suit, initially
dismissing Shawshank, which failed in the box office just like "It's a
Wonderful Life" and "Citizen Kane." It could have just whithered away
on the store shelves, like Andy Dufresne could have in his own cell.
But the characters prevailed, because Andy -- And Shawshank -- stayed
true. Now, these movies are right up there as the most popular films of
all time. Anyone who has yet to watch Shawshank may be so jaded of movies, or the
film's title, or how a 2-1/2- hour movie set inside the walls of a
prison can manage to tap the soul of such a wide range of people.
Shawshank has not one explosion. I wonder if it even has a single
special effect or digitally- enhanced frame.

******
1 December 2013
8
This movie is just awesomely brilliant. Okay, English teachers may not
like that description, but simply put, this movie is one great movie.
This movie is about a prison in Maine named Shawshank. A wealthy
banker, Andy Dufrense (Tim Robbins) is arrested, charged, and convicted
for murdering his wife and her lover. He claims that he did not do it,
but the evidence points directly to him. He claims that he is innocent,
but so does everybody else in Shawshank. Andy, though, proclaims his
innocence right through to the end. He says "the only time I became
crooked was when I came to Shawshank".The Shawshank Redemption is adapted from the Stephen King novel "Rita
Heywood and the Shawshank Redemption", and as is typical for Stephen
King, the horror comes not from the supernatural but from the natural.
The horror here is of being thrown into prison an innocent man, and
then never being able to leave because of the corruption all around.
Andy is clearly innocent by the closing stages of the movie, but by
that time he is such a key element to the Warden's plans, that there is
no way he is ever going to be allowed to leave. Ebert speaks of the
horror of time and of daily routine here, but more so there is the
sense of alienation. Once one is inside the walls one can never really
leave. When one prisoner, Brooks Halten (James Whitmore) is released,
he kills himself due to the fact that he is free. Red (Morgan Freeman)
says when he is finally released, that without the strict routine of
the prison system and with the freedom of daily life, he just cannot
cope.Andy is different, he has hope, and he retains this hope right through
until the end. We do not see the big picture until the end of the
movie, when we are revealed all, but Andy remains calm, patient, and
resolute, knowing that in the end he is going to be free. He is also an
opportunist, he sees an opportunity and he takes it, and when he does,
he gains the friends that he needs to survive in the prison. He is not
a pushover, for when the sisters seek to violate them, he fights, and
he fights brutally, but he knows that in the end he will be out and he
puts up with it.This movie is about hope. It is not a fantasy: Red says "if this was a
fantasy then he would have fought them off and everything would have
been fine, but it is not." This is real and King has pulled no punches.
Yet also the hope is there; we see real characters with real
fallibilities. Even Andy falls occasionally and is blackmailed into
submission, but he has that hope and he always looks forward to
freedom.

******
30 November 2013
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
... More

******
30 November 2013
10
Shawshank is an example of the beauty and power that great cinema can
conjure. A deceptive film of prison life that contains violence, humor,
an extremely tear-jerking moment. A lot happens, yet the film just
seems to amble confidently along like the film's main character. This
film works on so many levels and definitely rewards repeated viewing.
The cinematography and music are wonderful, as are the central
performances. Yet for all this it is the tale itself and how it is told
that makes this (one of) the greatest stories ever told. People have
theorized about what this film means ...is it an disguised story of
Jesus?...a simple tale of friendship?...a tale of corruption?...a
lecture on faith and 'holding on'?...or is the main character not who
we think it to be for 3/4 of the film? After all there is one major
'redemption' in this film: a man who has to decide whether "It's time
to get busy dying, or get busy living". REDEEM YOURSELF, SEE THIS FILM.

******
28 November 2013
10
I made my mind to watch this movie in 2012 as most of users recommended
on IMDb. I always wonder what could be one thing that makes Shawshank
legend of Hollywood movies. Well, I gotta say I found my favorite actor
of lifetime after watching it: Morgan Freeman. Every single thing in
the movie is 10/10. Story of Stephen King, screenplay, dialogs, drama,
suspense, crime and action. I compare Morgan to Amitabh Bachchan of
Hollywood. The brief voice of Freeman moves me whenever I heard him. I
never gets tired watching it again and again, its that kind of out of
this world picture. I still sit back in ave and can't help myself from
watching it again and again. Thanks to strong direction and support
staff, this makes to top my list all-time.

******
28 November 2013
7
I liked this film very much...until the end. I thought, "NO! Please
don't give us a fairytale ending!" For me, the film should have ended
after Red found what Andy had left for him, or maybe showing him on his
way to be reunited with Andy. The scene on the beach was out of
character with the rest of the film, even though Andy had talked about
it earlier. And HE IS WORKING ON SOME PIECE OF SH*T BOAT IN THE MIDDLE
OF NOWHERE?! HOW did it get there? I thought, "WHY such an ending to
what up to now had been a great film? So I was very relieved when I
discovered that Frank Darabont wanted a different ending, and it was
the studio wanted it that way (how many times has THAT happened in the
history of Hollywood -- f*cking up a good thing).

******
28 November 2013
10
I think this film is very impressing because you can see into the life
of a prisoner who don't made a crime. In one scene for example the
judge who talk about Andy Dufresne see in his face he is a person who
don't have any feelings but the judge don't now that Andy was a quiet
person who act like a kind of introvert. And when he came to the
Shawshank he gives all the others the impression he is the first victim
of the other prisoners but he always take his head up, and because of
his experience he uses his knowledge to make his and the life of the
friends he meet in the prison a little better. In the end you can see
that the actor Tim Robbins mystify all the people who thought they know
him, so he can break out and give the Shawshank chief and the employees
the lesson which they don't forget for their life. In the End his best
Friend Red and himself begin a new stage of life in Mexico.

******
28 November 2013
10
Best movie ever! Story line ...awesome! A man convicted of murder lives
in a prison brutally ruled by a sadistic warden and secretly run by a
con who knows all the ropes and pulls all the strings. The story is
narrated by man named Red, who killed his wife to collect insurance.
Everyone is probably thinking "what an awful man" and "I already don't
like this guy" but throughout the story without knowing, you start to
actually feel sorry for him and everyone else in the prison. I don't
know what it is that Stephen King does but you really start to feel
like they all have done nothing wrong. When a man by the name of Andy
Dufrense comes to Shawshank on charges of killing his wife Linda
Dufrense and her lover Glenn Quentin, who was a golf pro he changes the
prison and he becomes a man nobody will ever forget. Andy claims to be
not guilty, and throughout the story he tries to prove that. He usually
keeps to himself and he has this attitude about him that doesn't seem
right for a prisoner at Shawshank prison. He walks around calmly and
upright just as if he was talking a walk through the park, this doesn't
land Andy many friends. While doing his time in Shawshank he is
constantly fighting a battle with these men people call the sisters and
his freedom. This book is a very adventurous and somewhat mysterious
book, it's probably not suitable for younger readers just because of
the language and some sexual content, but I would definitely recommend
it to young adults.

******
26 November 2013
8
OK, it's not a review, but please stop voting 10 stars on this movie
just because he is in the first place ranked I mean this movie is good
,yes it is, but never the best film in the world! And I'm not sure if
even it's worth the top 10. That's my opinion. I give 8 stars to that
one P.S Sorry for my English, oh and the IMDb obliged me to put 10 line
and I already got noting to say. P.S Sorry for my English, oh and the
IMDb obliged me to put 10 line and I already got noting to say. P.S
Sorry for my English, oh and the IMDb obliged me to put 10 line and I
already got noting to say. P.S Sorry for my English, oh and the IMDb
obliged me to put 10 line and I already got noting to say.

******
25 November 2013
9
The Shawshank Redemption is another Stephen King book based movie made
my Frank Darabont. I have said earlier that when Darabont makes a movie
based on a Stephen King book, it simply results in magic on screen, and
The Shawshank Redemption is almost a perfect example of that. Despite
receiving very positive reviews from critics, developing a cult
following, this film failed to well at the Box Office and barely
managed to recover it's costs.It's a shame really because this film deserves better, it is one of the
best films of the 90s and an excellent film, with a very deep and
engaging plot. Shawshank Redemption is a movie based on Prison Life and
follows the life of two prisoners who become close friends. Darabont
also made another movie based on Prison Life, The Green Mile, also
based on a Stephen King book. However the former is a more realistic
portrayal of prison life, it shows the harsh life of prisons even back
in the 1940s-60s and the hostile environment, prison life is portrayed
more accurately.The Plot is simply fantastic, after first 5 minutes I was just hooked,
and the plot is the main reason I kept on re-watching this movie,
however I did find myself struggling on the 4th viewing because the
movie really starts to drag a lot at several points, and if you have
watched those slow progressing scenes before they will be hard to sit
through again. The movie does not try to completely serious at times,
it also has it's amusing moments and some nice heart warming moments,
the ending was also well done, although a dialogue exchange between Red
and Dufaine would have been nice.However the plot is not really perfect, there are several unexplained
things in the movie, how did Andy manage to frame the Warden or Hadley
for Tommy's murder, and wouldn't revealing the Warden's illegal
earnings also get Andy (who pretends to be Randall Stephens)in trouble.
Also the supposed twist, that Andy didn't do it seemed unnecessary
because it went nowhere, if Andy had in fact committed the murder and
got his redemption, it would have added to the plot in my personal
opinion. I am not going to criticize King's idea or the writers' ideas
behind the story but I felt like the twist of of psychotic murderer was
unnecessary. Also the films progresses years really fast, at least
showing you the year on a blank screen would have cleared the confusion
because even in my 4th viewing I was confused at several points, that
which year it actually was, Freeman's narrating was helpful but it
still lead to confusion about which year it actually is.The acting is also good, Morgan Freeman steals the show with his
performance Red "Ellis Redding", he also narrates many parts of the
film and does it excellently. Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown act so well
and really make you despise them. Even Adam Sandler plays the cool laid
back prisoner very well. However Tim Robbin's is decent at best as Andy
Dufaine, it is understandable he was a depressed character but his
smirk, blank and confused facial expressions throughout the film are
just tiresome, he really seems robotic, there are actors who could have
done better honestly, nothing against Robbins, he can act well no
doubt, he did good in Jacob's Ladder but here he doesn't stand out, not
saying he is bad at all but his performance could have been better, as
he was the lead it would have added more to the film. The music is nice it fits the movie and many scenes very well. And the
direction is also done very well, the portrayal of prison life is very
accurate and realistic. The film's message about hope and friendship is
also mesmerizing.The Shawshank Redemption is an underrated gem, an excellent film with
an in-depth that deserved much more acclaim and commercial success at
its time of release. However it is not perfect, has it's share of
mistakes and is simply not the greatest movie ever made as IMDb top 250
lists it.Overall: 9/10

******
24 November 2013
10
One of the best movies in the common era. A must watch for sure for any
movie fanatics. One of the best performances by Morgan Freeman. A movie
that is definitely worth taking the time out of your lazy day and
watching from beginning to end. Must pay attention as it is very detail
oriented. Matter of fact, everyone has their part in this movie. All
very good acting performances. I wish I would have seen this movie a
lot earlier. A movie everyone can enjoy because of the great
performances. A sad but rejuvenating movie. Last but not least, it
definitely is a feel good movie. Very heart-warming especially at the
end when it tugs at those "heart-strings."

******
24 November 2013
10
New Zealand vs Ireland Live Stream, New Zealand vs Ireland Live
Streaming, New Zealand vs Ireland Live, New Zealand vs Ireland Stream,
New Zealand vs Ireland Streaming, Watch New Zealand vs Ireland Online,
Watch New Zealand vs Ireland Live, New Zealand vs Ireland Live Stream,
New Zealand vs Ireland Live Streaming, New Zealand vs Ireland Live, New
Zealand vs Ireland Stream, New Zealand vs Ireland Streaming, Watch New
Zealand vs Ireland Online, Watch New Zealand vs Ireland Live, New
Zealand vs Ireland Live Stream, New Zealand vs Ireland Live Streaming,
New Zealand vs Ireland Live, New Zealand vs Ireland Stream, New Zealand
vs Ireland Streaming, Watch New Zealand vs Ireland Online, Watch New
Zealand vs Ireland Live.

******
18 November 2013
10
Before watching this movie i was just postponing, its been a year or
two after I really made up my mind to watch this movie, starting of
this movie is really slow, at first any person who person who is a fan
of movies like escape from Alcatraz and TV series like prison break you
really gonna start questioning yourself that Andrey really gonna escape
or not but keep your hope that its really going to be awesome. This
movie is like filling a bucket with water drop by drop, so have some
patience to watch this movie.Moral of the story: "Hope is a good may be the best thing & good thing
never dies"

******
15 November 2013
10
Perhaps this movie is the best of the best movie i ever watch in this
planet, but the first thing you must know that I am a person seldom
watching a movie. Rare go to the theater, I prefer watching my favorite
movie at home . watching on DVD or online.But this movie is just rock, i think you must watching it too. And you
will know what I mean best.The character of the movie is hot. The story and the actor who play
their role each.The Shawshank Redemption (1994) with Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins, Bob
Gunton. There a name is not famous among, but this is the best foreign
language that success without the actor role, but the movie is simply
rate them high by people who love theater.This a Drama but this story and movie that one you must in your watch
list. Old movie but still worth to watch in this era.

******
14 November 2013
8
WATCH NOW : http://bit.ly/1arJHANI have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.WATCH NOW : http://bit.ly/1arJHAN

******
14 November 2013
10
Before we can critically assess The Shawshank Redemption, we first have
to deal with The Shawshank Reputation. In addition to its Oscar
nominations and huge critical acclaim, the film has topped the IMDb Top
250 for years and shows no signs of dropping off any time soon. Any
attempt to criticize it could come across as churlish or contrarily,
the work of someone attempting to be above what is popular for their
own self-righteous sake. Fortunately, there is little need to criticize
- for Shawshank really is as great as people make it out to be.It's easy to forget how much of a slow-burning success Shawshank was.
Despite favorable reviews and its many nominations, the film barely
broke even on first release. It was only with the VHS release that word
began to spread like wildfire, so that by the turn of the century it
had garnered a reputation as a modern American great. In an age where
films are dead in the water if they don't perform on opening weekend,
it is hard to imagine a situation in which another Shawshank could
emerge (although Slumdog Millionaire is a reasonable candidate)

******
12 November 2013
10
Shawshank Redemption is a prison movie done right. With both the story
and technical aspects of the film at the highest caliber, it delivers a
powerful tale that is timeless. Star Morgan Freeman gives a great
performance, but Tim Robbins undeniably delivers. From the lighting to
score, one cannot help but appreciate this fine example of a powerful
adaptation at its finest. It is a beautiful piece of history and takes
its place among the best. Even the pacing of the story is well placed
to give a sense of hopelessness within the prison, but not dragging on
and prolonging confinement. The creativity and originality behind this
leaves viewers in awe of a great film.

******
11 November 2013
10
In my opinion this is the one movie that is absolutely the greatest the
first time you watch it. It's probably my favorite movie. It may not
have the replay value of some of my other favorites but, the first time
you watch it when you don't know what is about to happen, is the
probably the greatest thing you can experience in terms of movies. I
only wish could I forget it so I could watch it again for the first
time. As a matter of fact if I ever suffered complete amnesia there
would be at least one definite benefit. I am not going to talk about
the ending and for god's sake if anybody puts a spoiler warning on
their comments do not read them!

******
10 November 2013
10
a creative mind can outsmart any systemThis masterpiece is timeless. The main character is convicted to life
in prison. Falsely accused, but newer gets justice. Instead of fighting
the justice system, he uses it against itself - in a clever way. He
brings a man to justice through he's own salvation.The warden represents the no-mercy system. Andy represents the citizen.
David vs. Goliath. But David needs friends. You can't beat the system
without friends.Traditionally the main character must save or change the world - in a
big or small way. Andy digs he's way out of the system, leaving the
warden to the system, and changes the way prisons were run.Love to see it over and over again..

******
9 November 2013
10
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman find themselves involved in a subtle
game of power, changes of life and change of perception of the things.
The movie brings you into a small work of a prison and make it bigger,
involving power, sentiments and freewill. The perfect story of how life
changes again and again, no matter where you are,who you are and why
you are like that. You can always take control of your life again,
using even the anger to your own sake. In this perception the the
downfall and the redemption from hell are part of a longer life process
that anyone can experience whenever. The redemption of your soul can
take many years but if you never stop believing it that will happen. A
masterpiece anyone should see, even though is not your favorite gender
of movie.

******
8 November 2013
10
This film, if it isn't one of the greatest of all time, at least I can
say it is one of the greatest I've ever seen. This is a must-recommend,
because to be honest, this is one of the many movies a movie lover must
see before they die. It is not just a great film, but a great
experience. And it is quite the experience! Morgan Freeman gives the
performance of his career in this film. I give props to the director
for making him narrate the film as well. He is just that great. Tim
Robbins give a very underrated performance in this film. Freeman stole
the show, but there was a certain subtlety of Robbins' that can't go
without being recognized. Either way, both these men give their full
effort into this film. There is a great atmosphere around this film as
well, it's a subtle tone, as this is a subtle, (But great) film, but it
changes when it needs to change, and it knows exactly when. As a
matter-of-fact, what makes this movie great is that it knows exactly
when it needs to do something powerful, thoughtful or sentimental, and
to be honest as a moviegoer, that is all I can ask for.

******
7 November 2013
9
It is a movie that must watch before u die it tells a beautiful
story,and how hope and fear can get u in Ur life. Beautifully directed
and also beautifully acted. It is very simple film but overall it gives
a ultimate pleasure to the watcher.. Absolutely fantastic film and
highly recommended..this is one of the movie when u see 1 time then
suddenly u became a fan of movies . And I have to say it's also
uncovers the deepness of friendship and also being alone.. some dialogs
are so good and u will remember them after the movie it can make a
impact in Your movie watching style.. overall a good film to see must
watch...tutu

******
7 November 2013
10
An amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and
definitely one of the top 'prison' movies of all-time. Pretty much
everything about this movie works and works extremely well! It's a
simple story elegantly, cleverly told, not to mention expertly acted.
Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a man who has never struck a
false note in his career, both narrates this tale and anchors it with
his authoritative playing. The Shawshank Redemption works not only as
an excellent prison drama, but as a metaphor for overcoming our own
private prisons. Powerful, poignant, thought-provoking and finally
irresistibly uplifting.

******
5 November 2013
10
A perfect story whose life gone worse down to the earth,,but despite of
being sad,they lead their life & they moulded and changed themselves to
reback into joy and happiness.Actors lead their roles very nicely. instead we calling themselves they
actors, i call themselves as livers.who involved in the character over
a span of 1.30 hrs to make us involved.this is the best movie i have ever seen.but coming to story there are
more perfect stories than this like illusionist etc.but it was purely
sci-fi and this is all about emotions so, obviously it stood first
among all other movies.

******
3 November 2013
10
I saw "The Shawshank Redemption" quite a few times since it came out in
1994 and I still sit there like it's the first time I watched it. This
is 2013 and I am still passing this movie on to friends and family who
unfortunately have never seen it before.Tim Robbins was superb in this this flick and IMO goes unmatched in any
of his future movies that he has starred in.Great overall picture!I especially love how, over a long period of time, two total opposite
characters bond and become close friends!This is the first time I had seen Morgan Freeman in a film I believe,
and I have probably watch 20 of his movies since. Amazing actor!!

******
3 November 2013
10
There is no critic alive that is capable of insulting this masterpiece.
This movie has all the elements of what Entertainment should represent.
Anyone who finds fault in such a blessing, has a problem that simply
starts in their own mirror each day. From the reality of the plot to
the roller-coaster of emotions for both the young and naive, and the
old and wise alike. The Shawshank Redemption covers full circle real
life occurrences from murder, infidelity, greed and corruption to
laughter, clicks, bonds, loyalty and lastly, isolation. All this
perfectly narrated by Morgan Freeman taking the viewer along the POV
path of his characters mind, other characters highs and lows with o/s
lines detailed to the T of believing you yourself are experiencing it.
My hats off to the entire cast, crew and everyone involved in this
project. The few negative reviews come from those who only wish to be
so lucky and fortunate one day. Enjoy this one over and over again, it
simply doesn't get old. "I damn near soiled myself" Brookes ;)

******
31 October 2013
9
the movie was so pleasant and realistic that made many users
captivated. we know that prison brings boredom,sadness and inevitable
for he accused, but this movie puts everything simple and interesting
where things are twisted abruptly.Just remember that movie prints an
effective phrase to which things are clinging to.. "hope is a good
thing and No good thing ever dies" prisoners have an odd feeling mostly
feel guilty for the things that busted them in, some may not. In here,
we see a different approach to free a man himself with a powerful
weapon 'hope'. so this hope gets him out that no one would ever try to
implement it.

******
30 October 2013
10
It's a wonderful movie that shows the power of hope. It's pictured in a
very nice way and deserves the 10/10 rating. It has a lasting effect on
you and you'll think about the movie a lot of times after you've
finished seeing it. I recommend everybody to watch it. Tim Robbins
shows the limits to which a person can suffer and how he can bounce
back with his brilliance and hope. Morgan Freeman gives a classy act
and is very fit for the character. The direction is excellent and does
justice to the amazing script. The other actors have also portrayed
their characters brilliantly. You'll feel hatred towards the negative
characters and that's only because of their amazing acting. This movie
is top in the top 250 list of IMDb fr a reason. Have a nice watch. :)

******
27 October 2013
10
This movie shows more than love and how to understand people that
doesn't have this great in life. Not so successful, and the taste of
freedom. This movie shows another side of life that people never can
understand. The script is amazing and the actor of all actress(Morgan Freeman). The
story is great and it's hardly any bad scenes or camera view. The moral
in this movie is as fantastic as Eminem's rapping. This is a short
review but watch the movie to get a side of life that you never have
seen before.This movie is about a guy that is a suspect in a murder case of his
wife and her lover. He get's into prison and finds out how the hard
life is in prison and how it takes you're life. He works in bank that
helps the police officer to save money for their family. The problem is
that he gets beaten and rubbed by people and guards. The he sees how
prisoners feel.

******
27 October 2013
8
Here in IMDb it's take the first place in ranking but it's taking and
will take always the first ranking in my life the best movie i have
ever seen because it's normally acting in cams and super professional
in real to appear like that friendship will never lost and true ones
must be i adore that movie I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I
do not like prison movies and I don't normally watch them. I work at a
branch library and one day as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption
out to one of our older patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down
or depressed, I check out this movie and watch it and it always makes
me feel better." At the time, I thought that was very strange. One day
there was nothing on TV except things I absolutely would not watch
under any circumstance or things that I had seen too many times
already. I remembered what she said, so I watched it. I have watched it
many many times since then and it gets better with every showing. The
story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover.

******
26 October 2013
10
I saw this movie many time, every time I saw and think this is the best
amazing movie I ever seen. I must say, every movie lover man must be
see this movie. I love this movie story line. I saw this movie rate 9.2
but I think this movie is highest rating movie. Normally I am a
programmer but love to saw lot of movie. This movie must be used as an
Anti-depression by therapists! this movie proves that Oscars are either
money bought gifts! or that who ever in charge of them are so smart
that they couldn't give any Oscar to The Shawshank Redemption knowing
that the movie is on different - much higher- rating scale than the
Oscars.. it's simply over qualified!

******
25 October 2013
10
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy, a banker who spends
nearly two decades in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife
and her lover despite his claims of innocence. During his time at the
prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, and
finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him
in his money laundering operation. One of the greats motion picture I
have ever seen. There are 0 flaws to this film. And I counted. This
film is an uplifting, deeply satisfying prison drama with sensitive
direction and fine performances. If I could give it more than 10 I
would.

******
23 October 2013
10
The fact that this film was reviewed by many users and still many more
are going to states that this movie is a true classic. You have to say
only few movies can make you store them for life and relive and enjoy
the moments like you are seeing them for the first time. I enjoyed the characters very real and we may not see them everyday but
we still get a feeling of knowing from eternity. Director used all the
film making techniques to good use and let us be the eye rather than a
stranger. The writing is flawless and inspiring. The eternal satisfaction that
makes us feel fulfilled at the end of the movie is priceless. I hope if
ever I make movies in real, to make such a human movie. Bravo to the team.

******
22 October 2013
10
This is just my favorite movie of all time. I really wanted to do a
review on it and here it is. GO-WATCH-THIS-MOVIE! Don't rent it. Buy
it. This is such an amazing movie, it's on the best movies list for
IMDb for a reason. It keeps you entertained and most of all, it is so
emotional. Yes, it IS another jail movie but it's not like any else
you'll ever see. And yes, there is a rape scene but it's a phenomenal
movie and it will probably become your new favorite. I can't speak for
everyone but it surely did become my new favorite. And I won't give
away the ending on you but I can say it is about the best movie ending
EVER. It's what officially made it my number 1. Anyway, I HIGHLY,
HIGHLY recommend this movie. You NEED to see it and I rate this movie
ten out of ten no doubt.

******
21 October 2013
10
Well, more than two thousands comments and mostly positive why I need
to write the comment for the simple reason I wants to pay a small
homage to movie making and proving to the world that still every now
and then Hollywood still come-up with rare gems. I watched this movie
so many times and every time I sit through this movie from start to end
which is quite rare these days to stick to a movie for more than 2
hours without feeling the patches of boredom or feeling the movie being
bit long. I am still not sure what happen to Oscar which don't give
best actor award to Morgan Freeman or best supporting actor award to
Tim Robbins, well its really unfortunate. There is a saying about great
movies, that great movies just made themselves and that's about it, you
cant just make them again and again and among several of those great
movies this movies will always stands. Frank Darabont will always be
remember for his two outstanding work one is The Shawshank Redemption
and another The Green Mile.

******
21 October 2013
9
Thanks to decent performances and direction own Frank Darabont
inventive, The Shawshank Redemption continues to be an example of class
how to approach issues with potentially heavy conviction, style,
lightness and wit. Powerful, poignant, thought-provoking and ultimately
uplifting. Thanks to decent performances and direction of very
inventive Frank Darabont, The Shawshank Redemption remains a
first-class example of how to approach issues potentially heavy with
conviction, style, lightness and wit. The Shawshank Redemption is a
prison drama with uplifting deeply satisfying sensitive direction and
great performances.

******
21 October 2013
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" has a hype so high that it is unfair to the
film and its potential viewers. But it is an expertly written ocean of
what a movie should be, and how a movie should capture such emotions
from the audience, and how an audience will realize it is not
glorified, but a masterpiece that is sure followed by almost any
filmmaker by the slightest of touches. In this single film, it contains
all of the basics (humor, drama, dread and redemption), but it tacks on
much more. From the depths of its characters to Andy's shoes. It is
about freedom, friendship and those metaphorical shackles. It's final
scene could have not been so touching in a lesser movie, but it all
pans out. Pans out in ways we hoped. In ways we dreamed.

******
20 October 2013
10
I thought that this film is epic. It is beautiful, sad and
heart-warming. I thought that the character were brilliant and the
actors portrayed them very well. Our knowledge of Andy's innocence is
painful to watch as he spends most of his life in prison, but I loved
the ending, and I believe that a film with a good ending always makes
it better because you leave the film on a good note. I thought that
Morgan Freedman and Tim Robbins made the film what it was because as
actors they were given the building blocks to bringing the character to
life, and I thought they did it brilliantly. I congratulate them
strongly.

******
20 October 2013
10
What more can you ask for? A spectacular cast, a gripping score and a
strong plot all contribute this film's massive success. Easily Frank
Darabont's greatest achievement, The Shawshank Redemption creates so
much atmosphere, and forces you to feel a whole spectrum of emotions
not explored in most films. Although sometimes exaggerated (as to be
expected from a Stephen King source), the film deals without a lot of
serious themes from the outset. The eventual revelation of Andy's
wrongful conviction is a great turning point in the story, and gives us
even more of a reason to root for our protagonist. Overall, the
direction and acting are masterful, with such power put into Thomas
Newman's score to send shivers through your body, there's not much else
to expect from this movie: A triumph!

******
19 October 2013
10
This movie is simply astonishing. Must watch movie in a lifetime. The
work of Morgan Freeman is the most brilliant from my views. But all The
credit and magic is goes to the Amazing Director of the Movie, I also
Watched his movie 'The Green Mile' Which is simply amazing like this
one but still it is not interesting or emotional like the Shawshank.In the end Shawshank movie i was simply full of emotions in my life for
the first time by watching a movie . Otherwise i did int think so that
some Movie or Actor or Director can make me so soft hear-ted. Well For
the movie, just amazing . You will not regret after watching this
movie.Oh my Advice, Watch it in on the Big screen with headphones on and no
disturbance at all , then you will realize how good is the Shawshank
Redemption.

******
18 October 2013
10
Wow! The general reaction to this movie. Frank Darabont brought Steven
King's Short story to a whole new light. The cast as well as the
general look of this film that makes is the classic that it is. Andy
Dufrain (Tim Robbins) is accused and convicted of murdering his fiancé
and her lover. Andy, the big city banker that was out of place
immediately strikes a cord in Red (Morgan Freeman). The two form a
relationship after a bet that didn't cash out for Red. The tale of Andy
and his terrible beginnings at the Shawshank Prison is unsettling. Tim
Robbin's look and performance is superb! His soft,smart demeanor is
painted well. His relationship with Red is the meat of the film. Andy's
defiant yet peaceful persona slowly mends in with the rest of the
prisoners. The story couldn't have been told better. Morgan Freeman is
the actor we know now because of this role. His dedication to his
friend is undying. The thought of relationships like that make this
movie so watchable. The fact that you can watch this over and over and
not be distracted is it's own note. Most who collect movies have this
title as a part of their collection. The story will be timeless because
of the movie and cement Stephen King as not only a great Novelist but,
amazing screenwriter. Everyone should watch this movie. The different
feelings it invokes as well as the mystery that comes with the story
are worth the Hour plus you spend. The problem is that the blueprints
for movies like this aren't able to be written. That's why classics
like this are far and few. Cinephiles would agree that the "Shawshank
Redemption" is placed well at #1 on IMDb'S List.

******
18 October 2013
10
Best movie ever. I can't believe it took me so long to finally watch
it, I mean Morgan freeman is amazing start to finish the movie itself
is amazing start to finish .... Gonna start watching all these classics
movies from now on . If you like prison movies or just good old fashion
movies ! This is it ! Can't believe Morgan freeman is in the all time
greatest movie. Just says a lot. Morgan freeman is god.... That us all
I really don't know what else to say so don't mind me
anymore....................................................Best movie
ever. I can't believe it took me so long to finally watch it, I mean
Morgan freeman is amazing start to finish the movie itself is amazing
start to finish .... Gonna start watching all these classics movies
from now on . If you like prison movies or just good old fashion movies
! This is it ! Can't believe Morgan freeman is in the all time greatest
movie. Just says a lot. Morgan freeman is god.... That us all I really
don't know what else to say so don't mind me
anymore....................................................

******
17 October 2013
10
This movie will surely touch your heart. Watched this film on a DVD.
Once the movie gets started, you cannot take yourself away from it.Can Hollywood, usually creating things for entertainment purposes only,
create art? To create something of this nature, a director must
approach it in a most meticulous manner, due to the delicacy of the
process. Such a daunting task requires an extremely capable artist with
an undeniable managerial capacity and an acutely developed awareness of
each element of art in their films, the most prominent; music, visuals,
script, and acting. These elements, each equally important, must
succeed independently, yet still form a harmonious union, because this
mixture determines the fate of the artist's opus. Though already well
known amongst his colleagues for his notable skills at writing and
directing, Frank Darabont emerges with his feature film directorial
debut, The Shawshank Redemption. Proving himself already a master of
the craft, Darabont managed to create one of the most recognizable
independent releases in the history of Hollywood. The Shawshank
Redemption defines a genre, defies the odds, compels the emotions, and
brings an era of artistically influential films back to Hollywood.

******
17 October 2013
10
There are few movies ever made that require no justification as to why
some (or in this case almost everyone) considers it a classic,
Shawshank Redemption is one of those films.Shawshank lives onto this day in such high esteem that it feels almost
pitiless to do a "normal" review of the film for by now almost everyone
out there has seen or knows of the movie that inspired us to "Get busy
living, or get busy dying" a movie that after watching it makes you
feel like you could achieve anything or escape any prison either
physically or metaphorically.Upon re-watching the movie for the umpteenth time it occurred to me
that there are so many reasons as to why Shawshank is the film it is, a
film that has so many elements that are truly classic. Here are some of
the points in the film that to me make this movie endlessly rewarding
and virtually as flawless as a movie could ever aim to be.- Shawshank Prison: is there anything more foreboding than the flying
camera zooming over the prison grounds as a bus of "fresh fish"
arrives? Shawshank acts as a character in itself both endlessly scary
yet sadly home to many convicted men.- Morgan Freeman as Red: introducing the world to the now overused but
never better voice over work of Freeman, Shawshank offered Freeman the
role of his career as wise and deep thinking Red, a character everyone
feels an affection towards.- Thomas Newman's score: crafting a score that ranges from the haunting
to the uplifting, Newman's score for Shawshank is a work of a true
musically genius and has cues that to this day are used in all manners
of film and other advertising. Try not to feel emotion as the music
kicks in as Brook's leaves prison.- The Script: turning Stephen Kings short story into an epic 2 hour
plus feature film may have to some seemed like a pipe dream but what
Darabont did with the script is nothing short of a magnificent work by
a wordsmith that will never top what he did here. Classic examples
include: "Bad luck, I guess. It floats around. It's got to land on
somebody. It was my turn, that's all. I was in the path of the tornado.
I just didn't expect the storm would last as long as it has" or "The
first night's the toughest, no doubt about it. They march you in naked
as the day you were born, skin burning and half blind from that
delousing s**t they throw on you, and when they put you in that cell
and those bars slam home that's when you know it's for real. A whole
life blown away in the blink of an eye. Nothing left but all the time
in the world to think about it".- The story: The journey Tim Robbins's Andy takes over 20 years in
Shawshank is one we the viewer's feel like we take to. Never more so
have we felt the sweat of prison workshops like we do here, the feeling
of relief in times of outdoor recess or the fear of guards lying in
wait to throw us in the "hole" or react with their batons. Shawshank is
more than a prison movie however it is a life affirming tale of hope,
loss and friendship.The Shawshank Redemption will continue to live on and be a part of best
of lists, a future it deserves. Upon reflection and re-watch I can say
one thing for certain and use a word that did not exist when Shawshank
first entered our world. Shawshank redemption is the best "bro-mance"
tale we will ever see, a tale that we will never forget and a movie
that will never grow tired or old.5 Rita Hayworth posters out of 5 For more movie reviews and opinions
check out - www.jordanandeddie.wordpress.com

******
16 October 2013
10
I am not finding anything to deduct a point from 10/10 on watching this
movie. Story line, screen play, acting, sequence, climax - SUPERB. Any
kind of viewer would like this, but keep patience till the end.
Sometime you might feel bored. My suggestion, keep watching with full
of attention. At the end - A smile with satisfaction. You have watched
a great movie in your life time. The dark room, typical jail stories
etc are the real thrillers. I wonder, about the title. It is thin line
between the movie and title. Must watch this movie. If you like pursuit
of happiness, this one you would love it. No actor will be given the
whole credit for the movie. All are par to their responsibilities. Not
a single character can be ignored. And finally the sequence. The whole
credit goes to the director. Intelligent way of story telling. You must
keep attention to every incident in this movie. You may miss out
something. Then don't blame me that I was wrong.

******
15 October 2013
8
This movie is number #1 in IMDb and many of my friends says this movie
is a crystal clear 10/10 and the best movie ever made. I don't think I can agree on that note. Maby I had too high
expectations or something but this one is really slow and have few
sequences that gives you this feeling of a really REALLY great movie.The actors of this movie I must say is very good and especially Morgan
Freeman, whitch is one of my favorite actors of all time. He does a
great job. I give this movie 8/10 because it is a good movie, but nothing more
than that.

******
15 October 2013
10
Classic review by R.E.This is a film that is deeper than most films; about continuity in a
lifetime, based on friendship and hope.Interesting that although the hero of the film is the convicted former
banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is never seen from his
point of view. The film's opening scene shows him being given two life
sentences for the murder of his wife and her lover, and then we move,
permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and
particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman).From Andy's arrival on the prison bus to the film's end, we see only
how others see him - Red, who becomes his best friend, Brooks the old
librarian, the corrupt Warden Norton, guards and prisoners. Red is our
surrogate. He's the one we identify with, and the redemption, when it
comes, is Red's. We've been shown by Andy's example that you have to
keep true to yourself, not lose hope, bide your time, set a quiet
example and look for your chance. "I guess it comes down to a simple
choice, really," he tells Red. "Get busy livin' or get busy dyin'." The
key to the film's structure, I think, is that it's not about its hero,
but about our relationship with him - our curiosity, our pity, our
admiration. If Andy had been the heroic center, bravely enduring, the
film would have been conventional, and less mysterious. But we wonder
about this guy. Did he really kill those two people? Why does he keep
so much to himself? Why can he amble through the prison yard like a
free man on a stroll? People like excitement at the movies, and other
titles provide that. But there's a hunger for messages of hope, and
when a film offers one, it's likely to have staying power even if it
doesn't grab an immediate audience.The movie premiered at the Toronto Film Festival in September 1994, and
opened a few weeks later. It got good reviews but did poor business
($18 million B.O.; only another $10 million after 7 Oscar noms).There wasn't much going for it: It had a terrible title, it was a
"prison drama", it contained almost no action, starred actors who were
not big stars, and it was long at 142 minutes. This was a movie that
needed word-of-mouth to find an audience.Then, in one of the most remarkable stories in home video history, it
found its real mass audience on tapes & TV. In five years, "Shawshank"
was a phenomenon, a video best renter and seller. When the Wall Street
Journal ran an article about Shawshank in 1999, it was first place in
the IMDb vote of 250 best films.Polls and rentals reflect popularity but don't explain why people value
"Shawshank" so fervently. It does have entertaining payoff moments (as
when Andy does all of the guards taxes). But much of the movie involves
quiet, solitude, and philosophical discussions about life. The moments
of violence are seen objectively, not exploited. The movie avoids
lingering on Andy's suffering.The Morgan Freeman character is carrier of the film's spiritual arc. We
see him at three parole hearings, decades apart. The first hearing
involves storytelling trickery; the film has opened with Andy's
sentencing, and as we see the parole board we expect to listen to
Andy's appeal. But, no, that's when we first see Red. In his first
appeal he tries to convince the board he's been rehabilitated. In the
second, he just goes through the motions. In the third, he rejects the
whole notion of rehabilitation, and somehow in doing so he sets his
spirit free and is released.There's an underlying problem. Behind bars, Red is king. He's the
prison fixer, able to get you a pack of cigarettes, a little rock pick
or a Rita Hayworth poster. On the outside, he has no status or
identity. We've already seen what happened to the old librarian (James
Whitmore), lonely and adrift in freedom. The last act, in which Andy
helps Red accept his freedom, is deeply moving - all the more so
because Andy again operates at a distance, with letters and postcards,
and is seen through Red's mind.Frank Darabont wrote and directed the film, basing it on a story by
Stephen King. His film grants itself a leisure that most films are
afraid to risk. The movie is as deliberate, considered and thoughtful
as Freeman's narration.Deliberate, too, is the dialogue. Tim Robbins makes Andy a man of few
words, quietly spoken. He doesn't get real worked up. He is his own
man, capable of keeping his head down for years and then indulging in a
grand gesture, as when he plays an aria from Mozart's "The Marriage of
Figaro." (The overhead shot of the prisoners in the yard, spellbound by
the music, is one of the film's epiphanies.)Roger Deakins' cinematography is tactful, not showy. Two opening shots,
one from a helicopter, one of prison walls looming overhead, establish
the prison. Shots follow the dialogue instead of anticipating it.
Thomas Newman's music enhances rather than informs, and there is a
subtle touch in the way deep bass rumblings during the early murder are
reprised when a young prisoner recalls another man's description of the
crime.Darabont constructs the film to observe the story, not to punch it up
or upstage it. "When they put you in that cell," Red says, "when those
bars slam home,that's when you know it's for real. Old life blown away
in the blink of an eye. Nothing left but all the time in the world to
think about it."Affection for good films often grows with familiarity, as it does with
music. Some have said life is a prison, we are Red, Andy is our
redeemer. All good art is about something deeper than it admits.

******
14 October 2013
9
The Shawshank Redemption which was released in 1994 is one of the
greatest classic in the world's film industry. & it is also an
excellent work of Morgan Freeman. In this movie, the crude, naked and
true picture of an American jail has been revealed with a surprise.
Threre is also an important message about intelligence of a man. This
movie tells us that not a single man's intelligence is negligible.
Chicago Sun-Times film reviewer Roger Ebert suggested that The
Shawshank Redemption is an allegory for maintaining one's feeling of
self-worth when placed in a hopeless position. Andy Dufresne's
integrity is an important theme in the story line, especially in
prison, where integrity is lacking.Angus C. Larcombe suggests that the film provides a great illustration
of how characters can be free, even in prison, or even in freedom,
based on one's outlook on life.

******
14 October 2013
9
I watched it in 2013 and still was shocked after watching it's
conclusion. Same thing happened with me earlier while watching 'The
Dark Knight Rises' !!Hope regenerated....Worth it...Rating - 9.1Some of the areas of the movie were slow poke for me but in the end i
could conclude everything and link it up with the movie...Due to my late recognition i found it a bit lengthy though it was
perfect when it was released. this movie is no doubt one of the best
creation of the history which i don't think can be replaced by
anything.Morgan freeman and his voice... best thing about the movie...

******
13 October 2013
10
I had the pleasure of watching this movie last night. I went since its
a "guy" movie my husband was the one excited about it more than I was.
I must say I was more than impressed with the leading men in this film.
It has been a long time since a movie has had me on the edge of my
seat, biting my nails as this movie did during the fighting scenes. If
you are looking for great acting, family drama, awesome fighting scenes
than this is the movie for you. After we left the theater we couldn't
stop talking about it. I will definitely go see it again when it comes
out. We really enjoyed it! Nick Nolte was amazing, and even my husband
I think cried in a few scenes, (last time that happened was during
Marley and Me) so I must say this movie is a MUST SEE!

******
12 October 2013
10
I do not know why I missed this film when it first premiered. Perhaps
it was in the decade in which I lived under a rock. Nevertheless, I did
not first see this film until 2007, and although I'd heard of it, I
wasn't sure what to expect. I knew it was a Stephen King adaptation
and, honestly, I've never really been much of a King fan, although it
seems that I keep watching many of the films adapted from his stories.
(Seriously... The Langoliers? The butt worms. WTF?!) Still, I took to
Shawshank with little trepidation, allowing the story to unfold as it
was meant, and I was hooked within minutes. Afterwards, I did what any
good Shawshank fan should do, I watched it again. Robbins' and Freeman's performances were incredible. The story, well
told, and the standard King-style twist, surprisingly unanticipated. Little to say,this movie immediately became my all-time favorite, and I
happily enjoy watching it whenever it comes available.

******
12 October 2013
10
As we know Shawshank has been ranked best movie by IMDb and many other
critics sites. It is one of those movies which you remember even after
leaving theater. The type of connection the movie makes with the
audience is remarkable. It is not only critics favorite even with its
intense story line it presents a slight humor which is astonishing.
This movie is ought to be best due to the marvelous direction different
yet unique story and the characters the whole cast has done an
astonishing job it indeed is a movie without errors of any sort. So Yes
the movie does deserve the perfect 10 on 10.Some times a movie of such
high note is way over peoples head though shawshank being a movie of
high notes establishes a very well connection with each and every of
its audience.This is what can be called as world class cinema.

******
12 October 2013
9
this is a good movie This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes
of people who feared it long lost in a dark sea of clichés and
predictability. Darabont shows us that artists still work in the
Hollywood studios and production facilities. These artists show their
capability to produce art; real art that inspires you to look at the
deeper aspects of life and the world around you. The Shawshank
Redemption delivers much-needed breath of fresh air for anyone who
realizes the capability of film. It proves that masters of the craft
still live on this earth, and still bless us with timeless masterpieces
that we will never forget.

******
11 October 2013
9
"The Shawshank Redemption" is one of the best prison break i have ever
seen. This is the story of freedom, the story of hope and friendship.
This movie is like a art because it is a combination of purely
amalgamated of various emotions like friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. simply it is a extraordinary creation by Frank Darabont and
panned by Stephen King.If we talk about the cast of the movie then Freeman, who is simply a
great actor, both narrates this tale and anchors it with his
authoritative playing. Morgan Freeman has griped the narration aspects
its why the has gained Oscar for best actor in leading role. On the
other side Tim Robbins had played as Andy tremendously well but
sometimes he is unable to form bridge to audience. The story of Brooks
is very emotional and heartbroken. At the time Brooks hung himself he
carves in the wood "Brooks was here" in his apartment and then Red
added to it "And so was Red". The creation of this types of scenes will
surely add a step further to won Oscar in best cinematography. I love
that film because it had great impact on emotions and hopes. We can say
that the Shawshank envelops friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams.
The film contain very good quote that "Remember Red, hope is a good
thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies." Andy
Dufresne. I want to express that if you don't love the Shawshank
Redemption than you are beyond the bound of Redemption. After the
watching this movie a question upswing in my mind that "why are these
men in jail?" but after that i realize that everything matters that is
the situation.So it is awesome movie and such type of movie should't be unseen. So
watch this movie very precisely and i am sure that the movie will pour
it's fraction of greatness in your life.

******
11 October 2013
9
I was really loving movies, the first day I watch 1-3 movies and only a
few films that I remember was 3 Idiots, The Shawshank Redemption, The
Pursuit of Happiness. Many movies that good in the world but do not get
a champion and I am very confused as to why it can occur. I hope a lot
of directors that take a lesson from the movies "The Shawshank
Redemption" and make a movies that filled with good of moral messages.
inspiration, motivation and enthusiasm high life need to be submitted
at any movies. only expensive or cool with no animation effects, but
the film had a powerful messages.I watched The Shawshank Redemption 5x and never bored. The Shawshank
Redemption, The Pursuit of Happiness, 3 Idiots (Bollywood) it is an
extraordinary film 3.I would like to thank the director that had written it. I hope there
are a lot of films like these next year.Thank you again

******
11 October 2013
10
I haven't seen too many movies that I would rate a 10, but I had no
problems giving this one top score.number 1 on IMDb's list for a reason... a must see for any and everyone
The films message of hope even in the most dark situations hope can be
our salvation and it is so true. The film is put together perfectly
what brings the film together for me is Morgan Freemans voice it's so
powerful, in his acting on screen in the film as well as his narration.No matter what happens, keep positive, have hopes dreams and desires,
that is your purpose here on this planet this is what this film is
about, everything else is just mechanics to get this across?

******
10 October 2013
10
It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but
"The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because
it makes us a member of a family.Many movies offer us vicarious experiences and quick, superficial
emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and looks.It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in the story
of men who have formed a community behind bars.It is deeper than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on
friendship and hope.over all it was an amazing movie.

******
10 October 2013
10
A story of injustice, friendship, hope and triumph.The film Starts with
the main character played excellently by Tim Robbins, being falsely
accused of Murder and being found guilty and ultimately sent to a
maximum security prison, during this time we see his struggle behind
bars and wonder if justice will ever be fulfilled! This film has such a
great screenplay,full with great dialogue and amazing twists and turns
that it is easily one of my top three films, ever! The main
actors/characters, all turn in top performances, that one is swept
along with their relationships and the plot! Morgan Freeman is a truly
outstanding actor and in this film he excels in the role of 'Red', The
old timer inmate, who befriends Tim Robbins, and build up a friendship
the the film is centred on. When this film was first released it was
totally under the radar and really didn't register as a 'Must See Film'
but as the film was seen by more and more people, word of mouth, 'YOU
HAVE TO SEE SHAWSHANK',made this film into the Super Cult classic film
it has become, grossing many, Many times more in Video/DVDs sales than
it ever did at the box office. in summary; Excellent and a must see, if
you haven't already seen this film..do it now!

******
9 October 2013
9
The Shawshank Redemption by Frank Darabont is a classic film that tells
the story of a man who overcomes the worst hardship and uses his wit to
deceive his authorities. The audience follows a man named Andy Dufrense
through both the most terrible, and the most heartwarming events
imaginable. As the film progresses, viewers develop a connection with
the main characters as suspense builds with each succeeding event
(Ebert). Camera angles are important in every movie from romance films
to action films to comedies; however in a film that is as emotionally
connected as the Shawshank Redemption, camera angles are one of the
primary reasons this movie is so renowned. This original story by
Stephen King obviously laid a great foundation for Darabont's film;
however the film uses different angles to enhance scene suspense
something that a book cannot do. Frank Darabont's use of specific
camera angles throughout the film draws the audience closer to the
characters, creating an intimate relationship that makes The Shawshank
Redemption one of the best movies of all time. Darabont's choice of camera angle develops a connection between Andy
and the audience watching him, making for a much stronger overall film.
The first demonstration of brilliant camera angle is the court scene,
which shows up early in the film. The camera slowly zooms into his
face, revealing his expression of complete shock and awe. This is
critical because it gets the audience to realize the pain he is in at
the moment. The next moment of noticeable camera work is when Andy is
locked into his cell. The camera follows him through the hallway, and
then enters the cell with him. The tiny detail to have the camera join
Andy in the dark cell connects the audience in a way that literature
cannot. At this point, the audience feels the harsh entrapment that
Andy feels. The next catastrophic scene in the movie is Andy's rape.
The camera does something here that works perfectly at making viewers
feel horrible for the protagonist. It shows Andy alone in the laundry
room, yet uses the single light source to show only the dark side of
his body. As opposed to telling us that he is terribly depressed, the
camera angle uses darkness to reveal how he feels. Towards the end of
the movie, the camera uses one last movement that truly stands out.
Darabont chose to both zoom out and tilt the camera down to give the
sensation of rising into the sky. Viewers feel the same sense of
freedom that Andy feels that that moment. The view-points of these
events give the movie an upper hand to written version. Although the
camera doesn't put these events in Andy's point of view, it still
manages to make observers feel exactly what he is. Each of these
choices in camera movement makes its own unique statement, yet they all
bond spectators to Andy by stimulating our intrigue, sorrow, or joy. Camera angle is frequently used to build suspense throughout the movie
which draws the audience in and holds them there. The first immensely
suspenseful scene is when 'the sisters' rape Andy after beating him up.
The camera uses a dolly shot to fade away from the men, while
simultaneously moving behind a corner so the audience cannot see all of
the horrible events happening to Andy. The rest of the event is left up
to imagination, which makes the spectators think about how Andy feels.
The camera movement itself is suspenseful in its nature. The next
suspense-building scene is the book-shelving scene in the library that
Andy took over. The camera shows Andy and Red's conversation from shelf
to shelf, making them pause between each of their statements. At this
point, they were talking about Andy's cunning in taking over the
warden's financial situation. Each time they move, the camera pans with
them, forcing them to pause their conversation, which obviously leads
the audience to anticipationwondering what will be said next. Another
great example is Red's journey out of the Shawshank Prison. The point
of view switches over to Red, however the camera's talent of building
suspense remains the same. Brooks left the prison before Red, and took
a journey through town to a halfway house, where he hangs himself,
leaving a note: 'Brooks was here.' Once Red is released, he follows
Brooks' exact journey from location to location, and then etches into
the walls next to Brooks' note 'so was Red.' The camera focuses on the
writing on the wall so the audience cannot see whether or not Red hung
himself just like Brooks. After this, the director utilizes pedestal
movement to slowly reveal the rest of the room, and it is discovered
that Red did not hang himself, relieving the audience instantly. In
this instance, the camera helped the movie build suspense where the
book version would not be able to. After this scene, as the movie is
finishing up, the audience is taken to the orchards with Red, in search
of the note Andy left for him. This is one last moment of suspense
because of the camera angle. It tracks Red along the stone wall, but
never shows us what he sees, leaving the viewer's asking 'will he find
the special package or not?' Resolving the situation is in Red's hands,
and the camera helps to build suspense until he finally sees the unique
rock. Often, words with a story can create enough suspense to draw a
group of people in; yet adding unique viewpoints will maximize the
anticipation in most any movie.Though The Shawshank Redemption never earned any Oscars, it received
seven nominations for multiple awards including best picture.This movie
has not received all of the popular accolades it deserves, yet that
doesn't take away from its brilliance.

******
9 October 2013
9
I don't really like these kind of movies. When i first looked at the
DVD cover i thought "oh well, this looks and sounds rather boring". I read on IMDb that it was the best rated film ever, so i thought i
maybe i should just power through it. But oh my god! The movie was amazing. So powerful. I was just blown
away. And I don't really understand why. When i think about the plot
it's so far from what i usually likes, but just following Andy
Dufresne's story is just so entertaining. The life in Shawshank is just
so interesting. trough the whole movie you are rooting for Andy. The acting in this movie is also phenomenal. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman are just amazing. They carry this movie.This movie really fits everybody. I am not just saying that. I myself
is a 16 year old boy who only watches sci-fi and action.

******
8 October 2013
10
I have just dished out what I would like to have been a minus out of
ten (0/10) for After Earth.I thought I would add balance.Can you give a film 10/10? I have watched many movies in my 50 years of
life.I think if you read the plot etc you would not necessarily give
Shawshank Redemption the highest marks. How misleading.I have seen many very good movies. Some of them compete with Shawshank
Redemption. May there be many more! However, Shawshank Redemption is the best movie I have ever seen. It is
obviously hard to choose from many very good films. Every time I watch
Shawshank Redemption I sit back moved, entertained and anything else
you would like from a film.How I wish I had written for this movie. Directed it or had some
involvement in it. I couldn't get better actors if I tried. I am just
astounded.Maybe Shawshank is not perfect. Nothing is. But as it is the best film
I have ever seen it simply must get 10/10!

******
8 October 2013
10
"Get busy living or get busy dying" An amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and
definitely one of the top "prison" movies of all-time. Pretty much
everything about this movie works and works extremely well! The film
touches upon many subjects, including the ideas of hope, redemption,
love, loneliness, justice, life/death, friendship, endurance, fear,
patience, inspiration and so much more. Watching this movie always makes me feel a million times better, and if
that's not the greatest reason to watch a film, I don't know what is.
Give it up to both Freeman and Robbins for completely engulfing their
characters with heart, soul and the spirit of humanity. I appreciated
the message in this film, I absolutely loved the way it ended, I
surrendered to its pace, I enjoyed all of its characters, I thought it
was wonderfully photographed, I loved the score and I could seriously
watch this movie 10 times a year and not bat an eyelash the whole way
through. And what kind of banner year was 1994?? PULP FICTION, FORREST GUMP, THE
SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION and FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL (one of my
favorite romantic comedies of all-time) were all nominated for Best
Picture. It's really too bad that most everyone got swept by that
chocolate-lover, but no matter what the Academy deemed "better" that
year, it goes without saying that SHAWSHANK has developed an even
greater audience and following since that time, and is probably one of
the most appreciated movies from the past twenty years (I usually NEVER
hyperbolize any of my reviews (this is the BEST EVER...this is the
WORST EVER...), but in this case, this film takes that cake and damn
well, eats it too!). Love it, watch it, get your own motivation from it and surrender to its
spirit which gives anyone in the world hope to do whatever they dream
to do in life. It's like I quoted back at the top of this review, you
better "get busy living, or get busy dying". It don't get more black
and white than that. Your choice. A true cinematic inspiration. (c) 2013 Berge Garabedian

******
8 October 2013
8
This is certainly a good movie, but it's not the greatest movie of all
time. People hype up this movie too much which persuades other people
to develop the same opinion as them. When people are asked what their
favourite movie is, they often reply with Shawshank because they don't
want to be seen to have a different opinion from the norm. People
should develop their own opinions. It's good to see that critics don't
rate this film as highly as the general public - I guess this proves
that critics truly do know more about movies than the amateurs who
consider this film to be the greatest of all time. I also found this
film fairly predictable as it was obvious that he would escape in the
end.

******
7 October 2013
10
Based on ratings by users, I can see why this film is rated number 1 on
IMDb.A film about Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who claims he was falsely
imprisoned. He decides to adjust to life while incarcerated, and
befriends a number of his fellow inmates, including Ellis Boyd Redding
(Morgan Freeman). Andy establishes respect among his cohorts and even
the prison guards by doing a number of things in improving life in the
prison, including expanding a library and helping people do taxes. The
men's friendships grow over the years as try to find, as the IMDb plot
puts it, "solace and eventual redemption through acts of common
decency." This movie is on the longer side, being over two hours long.
However, the many elements in this film do not drag, making this movie
an intriguing and exciting feature. The plot and subplots were solid,
blending together well, and the cast of characters gave a strong,
dramatic and memorable performance. There were action, humor, drama,
tragedy and hope all mixed in, providing you a very entertaining film.There are far too many aspects of this film to be mentioned all at once
in this review. Therefore, you will have to see and follow this movie
for yourself to appreciate it. It is certainly worthy of its seven
Oscar nominations, including Best Picture (Forrest Gump won that year).
A must-see for anybody.Grade A

******
7 October 2013
10
An amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and
definitely one of the top 'prison' movies of all-time. Pretty much
everything about this movie works and works extremely well!Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a man who has never struck a
false note in his career, both narrates this tale and anchors it with
his authoritative playing..Based on a short novel by Stephen King, "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption," the movie is as much a fantasy as any of King's horror
stories, yet thanks to screenwriter and director Frank Darabont, there
isn't a moment we don't want to believe in. Darabont uniquely blends
humor and violence, sweetness and brutality, in what may be the best
"feel-good" movie of the last twenty years. Ultimately, it is a story
of hope and triumph, a tribute to Man's ability to overcome all odds.
Andy never fails to astound us with his courage and cunning. He manages
to ingratiate himself with the guards when he begins doing their tax
returns and with the inmates when he helps build the finest prison
library in Maine. (And managing to get them a cold beer on a hot day
doesn't hurt, either.) Andy's final surprise, though, is his best, and
it is enough to encourage even old Red to face the real world. .

******
7 October 2013
10
the Shawshank redemption is the best movie I have ever seen! defiantly
worth the watch!! it is so amazing how Andy spent years having patience
to dig out that tunnel so he can escape. And the scene where the
librarian hangs himself because he doesn't know what to do with his
life touched my heart, it is truly amazing how one can adapt to an
environment no matter how bad to the point if they leave there lost. I
defiantly recommend this to everyone! it is amazing to look into the
life of a prisoner and see and in a way experience what they did in
prison, to watch Andy progress through the years and to change things
in the prison is amazing. and I defiantly love the chess pieces it
gives the storyline a great prospective of the character. I love how
Andy affects each prisoner and how it shows that when Ellis finally
gets parole that he actually goes to the place Andy asked him too.
absolutely amazing!

******
6 October 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption is the greatest motion picture of all time.
Tim Robbins does an outstanding job as portraying convicted Andy
Dufresne, but supporting actor Morgan Freeman is the jewel of the movie
and brings humanity to the whole crew of prisoners. Bob Gunton also
provides a remarkable performance as the Warden. An incredibly dramatic
story line followed by a satisfying ending plot twist. This piece of
art truly deserves to be atop the IMDb Top 250 and should be watched by
everybody, as the quality of this work can appeal to anyone. Over two
hours of incredible role play and drama that are sure to make you want
to see this masterpiece at least twice.

******
6 October 2013
10
No movie is perfect, but Shawshank Redemption comes very close to that
perfection by giving you a valuable lesson for life. Superb score by
Tom Newman that blends perfect with the movie. It is so good that you
will enjoy it even without watching the movie. Outstanding acting
performances by Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins and Bob Gunton. The
characters make you feel for them, which can only be achievable by
masterful acting. You will root for Andy and Red, hate the warden, and
admire every single scene of the movie until his wonderful conclusion.
A movie that teaches you about hope, determination and friendship in a
way you will never forget. A top 5 movie of all time in my opinion that
everybody has to see it.

******
4 October 2013
9
Why Shawshank Redemption is better than Forrest GumpForrest Gump and The Shawshank Redemption both came out in 1994, but
Forrest Gump gained much more award than The Shawshank Redemption.
Forrest Gump received six Academy Awards (Oscar Award) whereas The
Shawshank Redemption was only nominated for seven Academy Awards.
However, Shawshank should have won more awards and it is a better movie
compares to Gump.Shawshank has a comparatively lower profit according to box office.
Despite its disappointing box office return, Warner Bros. shipped
320,000 rental video copies throughout the United States, and it became
one of the top rented films of 1995. The film's home viewing success
was considered to be based on positive recommendations and repeat
customers. The film's Academy Award nominations enabled it to fare well
in the video sales and cable TV viewings. In June 1997,TNT, an American
cable network, showed the film for the first time. The film was the
first feature in TNT's Saturday Night New Classics. A 2004 Sunday Times
article suggested that TNT aired the film frequently from then on,
about once every two months. TV airings of the film accrued
record-breaking numbers.(Kermode) (Kermode, Mark (August 22, 2004).
Hope Spring eternalShawshank can be viewed for a thousand times and makes you think,
whereas Forrest Gump can only make you laugh only on the first time you
sew it. Shawshank and Gump are totally opposite stories. The main actor
Forrest Gump in Forrest Gump is an extremely lucky man, whereas Andy is
perhaps one of the most hapless guys. Forrest Gump is a comedy that you
can watch lying on your sofa with your friends. However, Shawshank is a
more serious movie and you probably will carry a sense of critic to
watch that realistic masterpiece. People like excitement at the movies,
and titles that provide it do well. Films about "redemption" are
approached with great wariness; a lot of people are not thrilled by the
prospect of a great film - it sounds like work. But there's a hunger
for messages of hope, and when a film offers one, it's likely to have
staying power even if it doesn't grab an immediate audience.(Roger
Ebert) Shawshank is the kind of movie that you can watch throughout
your entire life because of the movie reflects realistic parts that
impact on everyone's life. You can see the society you are in right now
is just like Shawshank prison. However, Forrest Gump is just a comedy
that triggers you to laugh only the first time you see it. The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that can arouse you about the true
beauty of life. However, Forrest Gump cannot trigger you think deeply
about the society and your life. Gump is more like a comedy reflects
American history. Shawshank uses the narrator's calm, observant voice
to include us in the story of men who have formed a community behind
bars. It is deeper than most films; about continuity in a lifetime,
based on friendship and hope.(Robert Ebert) We can find the description
of friendship and the nature of the human beings in Shawshank.
Shawshank is extremely recommended by quite a few Chinese celebrities
because they have sort of echo with the main character Andy. It is
reasonable because lots of current high-ranked government officers such
as Chairman Xi Jinping and successful businessmen were used to put into
prison during Cultural Revolution. They have similar experience with
the main character Andy. Andy's hope in prison reflects those
celebrities' lives in prison. They all kept their dreams and fight for
them until they success. Lucky guy Forrest Gump rarely appears in life,
but Shawshank's characters appears in our real life everyday. You can
see selfish politicians; young graduate students who strive for their
dreams every day. The dark aspect of society will eventually reveal to
you someday and you are not the lucky Gump who can success easily.
Shawshank will apply a life long lesson for you: keep your dream and
treasure your friendship. The Shawshank Redemption receives 9.3 out of 10 in IMDb and 90% in
Rotten Tomatoes, whereas Forrest Gump gains 8.7 in IMDb and 71% in
Rotten Tomatoes. What's more, Shawshank also occupied first place in
the Internet Movie Database worldwide vote of the 250 best films in
1999. In the long term, The Shawshank definitely demonstrates its own
charisma regardless of its production date. In the end, I think the conclusions of both movies are the deciding
factor. While Gump's ending is fitting and emotional, it only completes
it well. In the contract, the final half hour of Shawshank might be the
single greatest movie experience. When Andy takes off his clothes and
hugs the entire world after he is free and the lightening flashes his
eyes and audiences' eyes, you will finally be shocked by human being's
greatness of pursuing freedom. When Andy and his friend Red hug on the
splendid beach under golden sunshine, you will finally gratitude to the
eternal friendship. All those conclusions on the front pages proved that The Shawshank is
definitely a better more compares to Forrest Gump and it desires to
receive Academy Awards.

******
4 October 2013
9
It could be easy to say this movie is over rated, as I don't think I
have met a person who does not like it. However this movie holds up to
all the hype. It appeals to people from all walks of life and all
backgrounds. Was my favorite movie growing up. Loved the characters especially the
main two,the acting, the symbolism, the story and the ending is great
as well.Tim Robbins best movie and Morgan Freeman holds the whole movie
together. Not considered much, but the warden plays a good villain.A truly great movie that stands the test of time. Something I will look
forward to showing my kids.

******
3 October 2013
10
No doubt, it is the best movie ever in Hollywood and outside also.
Superb taking,casting,story line and the direction,it's really a class
film. My best is always The Shawshank Redemption, there is no
romance,no tragedy,but this movie have a heart and i think that heart
touches to everyone.This film must be a Oscar winning capability,but i don't know why it
was not won,but still this movies have a publicity of more than a Oscar
won movie.The main attraction of this movie is the casting,Morgan Freemen was
amazing and also Tim Robinson.They are superb payers.The other main
strength of this movie is the climax,it's and amazing end,no hard or
soft feeling after watched the movie.The only feeling is saw a superb
movie.

******
2 October 2013
10
I thought the movie was great. All of the aesthetic touches and
attention to cinematic detail, the most beautiful part of the film lies
within its thematic material, such as its focus on the human desires
for the most abstract concepts, like hope and freedom. These themes,
which concern things the human spirit undoubtedly yearns for, seem so
intricately woven into the plot that it easily draws its audience in to
its story. Though full of hardened criminals, your heart will go out to
these men as they display the most basic of human emotions, and deliver
some of the most quotable lines in a film to date. Like a great novel,
this film manages to succeed at greater things than simply entertaining
an audience. It tells the story most masterfully, illustrating
principles and inspiring his audience to think. He leaves us a poignant
film with a powerful message of hope, and redemption, something we all
seek.

******
2 October 2013
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont.

******
2 October 2013
10
I was recommended to watch Shawshank Redemption by my college accounts
teacher. According to him this was the best movie he had seen in his
lifetime. After I saw it, trust me nothing came anywhere near to the
level on which Shawshank Redemption is! Once you start watching it, it
takes you in so subtly that you won't even know and you're deep in the
movie, and till the final curtains fall, no matter how important it is,
but you just can't leave that screen! The way the story progresses on a
path, you better get your popcorn ready before hitting that 'play'
button. From the starting of the film it grips you, based on utter
reality from the 90's, the way an innocent man gets sentenced for
murder and is sent in jail with inmates as close to inhumane as they
can be. In the wild world inside the jail, only Morgan Freeman is
someone he can talk to and trust on. And so begins his quest to get
free from this prison. From doing errands for cigarettes, to escaping
inmates trying to rape you, he finally finds his way out! And the way
he does that is what steals all the attention! Brilliance! You can't
afford to miss out this movie, go get it today and leave a review.Shawshank Redemption is and will always be the BEST that ever came out
of Hollywood!A MUST WATCH RECOMMENDATION TO EVERYONE!

******
1 October 2013
9
this movie so touch full to every man and women heart i learn something
today's i touch something today the freedom we don't have here ,, when
i watch the movie i learn to not be afraid to do anything i love and
say it without to be afraid life is once and i will live it . that's
i'm have to do the human being is the most beautiful and incredible
creature he earn the right to be anything and i promise in my deep down
in my heart to be free and do what ever what i like and say what ever i
need m n. I'm not going to say any more about this film, it has already
been said, but just suffice to say that I am glad that Forrest Gump won
best picture in 94. I would have been equally glad if Pulp Fiction or
Shawshank would have won. It is that good of a movie and one that will
be appreciated for years to come.

******
1 October 2013
8
From long time I am a member of IMDb but I never try write a review.
But in this case I can not ignore writing review option.The screenplay was written by Frank Darabont, who based it on the
novella "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" by Stephen King.
He adapts the material so well that he really transcends it, turning
the film into a work of art. Many avid readers will claim the book is
always better than the movie, but that is simply not the case here.
King is a tremendous writer, but even he can't shade and color the
prison the way that Darabont does, which sets the mood for the entire
film. The characters King created in the book are deeper and more well
drawn in the film in large part because of Darabont's script.Many moviegoers turn their noses up at the thought of a movie about the
triumph of the human spirit. However, even those jaded film fans will
love "The Shawshank Redemption" because it sets a new standard for
films in this genre. It is an unapologetically emotional and sometimes
sentimental take on friendship and life, even when that life is spent
in a cage, and will make viewers laugh, cry, and reflect on their own
lives in ways that very few movies can. It may not have won a single
Oscar, but it will win your heart, and perhaps that is more important.

******
30 September 2013
10
If you are a movie buff and have not watched The Shawshank Redemption
then trust me you are not a certified movie buff.!! This is the best
movie made in the history of mankind. I have seen many movies but no
movie has moved me or attracted me the way this one has. There is a
special charm in the whole narration that keeps going on with the movie
which controls me every time. Every line, every shot is just remarkable
!Can watch it any number of times and still keep loving it more. So you
better waste no time if you haven't watch it yet and then i am sure you
would post a review too !! No wonder this movie has won so many
accolades to it and will will surely always be in the top char of IMDb
for ever and ever and ever.

******
29 September 2013
9
The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It takes a movie like The
Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul. Shawshank Redemption was my
favorite movie when I first saw it, and I only realized its weakness
later, this movie will look a lot worst the second time you watch it
with its mysteries revealed and questions fully answered because one of
the great qualities of this movie is its impossibility to guess which
direction the story will take until it reaches the end. However, the
movie celebrates the determination of the human spirit "There's
something inside you that they can't get to, that they can't touch.
It's yours.

******
29 September 2013
10
What to say about this movie, a true masterpiece and a well deserved
1st place here in IMDb. So many feelings felt while watching it. I
could definitely watch it again and again and would have the same
reactions. As someone said in another review: Excellent acting,
soundtrack, photography, etc. Tim Robbins was the perfect guy for the
role and all the other actors did great too. Do buy this movie because
you not only will be able to enjoy it but you will learn a lot from
your own reflections on various aspects of life and will be glad that
you are free. The movie itself has a strong message with much impact.
Don't miss it by any chance, there's a limited number of movies that
will make you feel this emotional about being free and alive.

******
29 September 2013
10
Nothing is Impossible. This movie is the perfect way to understand that
you don't need to be inside or outside a prison to get freedom. I
believe the people need to believe in your dreams more than people say
it's no possible, and the situation on this perfect movie by Morgan and
Tim explain how to make dreams possible. Just think, work, patience,
and believe. This is the way. I watch this movie every time I want to
be more motivated. I saw this movie last night and I tell my friends
and my family that we can't play with life, and we need to do
everything correct to make a good way and get health days. After that I
saw I lot of movies from Morgan and Tim, and a lot of this movie we can
see on there movies.

******
29 September 2013
9
One of the best films that I have watched, so completely enticing! It
had me in tears at the end, such an emotional film.. So glad that it
was made, the screen-writers/directors/producers should all be so proud
of themselves, the film is so amazing and if only I was a few years
older.. I'd have loved to have been a part of it. So interesting and
catchy, once I'd started to watch I couldn't stop!! Although parts of
it did drag slightly, they recovered extremely well. I thoroughly
enjoyed watching this film. Morgan Freeman is such an amazing actor, I
couldn't imagine anyone else to play the role of Red it was done so
well. Tim Robbin's was also well cast. Well done.

******
29 September 2013
10
Shawshank Redemption is a defining moment in cinema.The movie (directed by Frank Darabont) takes a straight-forward, soul-
searching novel by horror icon Stephen King and transforms it into a
somber, bloated prison drama designed to fill you up with inspiration.Thanks to supreme performances and beautiful cinematography, you get
that inspirational jump-start frame after frame. And you get generous
helpings of the novella's deft ironic humour about a inmate quietly
turning a corrupt system against itself.A small box office release which made its name once released on home
video, this movie is well worth a watch if you happened to have missed
it first time around.

******
29 September 2013
10
the most beautiful part of the film lies within its thematic material,
such as its focus on the human desires for the most abstract concepts,
like hope and freedom. These themes, which concern things the human
spirit undoubtedly yearns for, seem so intricately woven into the plot
that it easily draws its audience in to its story. Though full of
hardened criminals, your heart will go out to these men as they display
the most basic of human emotions, and deliver some of the most quotable
lines in a film to date. Like a great novel, this film manages to
succeed at greater things than simply entertaining an audience.
Darabont tells his story most masterfully, illustrating principles and
inspiring his audience to think. He leaves us a poignant film with a
powerful message of hope, and redemption, something we all seek.This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared
it long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability. Darabont
shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and
production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce
art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life
and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed
breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of film. It
proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and still
bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.

******
24 September 2013
10
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
23 September 2013
10
Let me keep it straight and simple..I am simply too impressed and therefore out of words to describe what
this movie portrays. The acting and realism of this fiction is eye catching. I really wonder
how much better it would get if it was based on a true story.Indeed, you can rate, review, describe, audit, revise or summarize a
movie, but not art.Whether you are a movie fan or not, simply don't miss this one if you
are a human !BTW, Mr. Brooks was my favorite character.

******
23 September 2013
10
A Review of The Shawshank RedemptionThis film acts like a commentary on prison life for long term
prisoners, but its real theme is one of hope. It draws us in quickly
with the drama of a cheating wife and the actions of a scorned husband.
However, what really brings us in are the deep soothing tones of Morgan
Freeman's (Driving Miss Daisy, Unforgiven) voice-over as Ellis Boyd
"Red" Redding speaking about his insights into Andy Dufresne.Andy Dufresne is the scorned husband, played by Tim Robbins (Bull
Durham, Mystic River), who is accused and convicted of murder even
though the evidence is circumstantial and he maintains his innocence.
He spends the next twenty years at Shawshank State Prison where he
meets Red. Red is one of the guys in the prison who has a way of
getting anything one might want smuggled into the prison. One of the
first things that Red notices about Andy is that he conducts himself as
a free man who is unaffected by the surrounding prison. Andy has
difficulty at first as he falls prey to a group of inmates called "the
sisters" and referred to as bull queers. This goes on until Andy shows
his worth as banker to the lead guard, Captain Hadley played by Clancy
Brown (Highlander, Starship Troopers). Hadley provided Andy's inmates
with beer in exchange for Andy's services. The beer made the inmates
feel like free men again and Andy's services got him noticed by the
warden. The warden, played by Bob Gunton (Patch Adams, Evita), provided
Andy with protection from the "sisters", allowed him to fix-up the
library, and allowed him to help some inmates earn their high school
diplomas in exchange for Andy's help with laundering money that
proceeded from the warden's many schemes. So, we are presented with a
bleak situation that is reinforced by dirty sets and mostly gray and
blue colors. The make-up used to age the actors gradually over twenty
years, combined with the acting, work together to make us believe that
all of this could happen and is real. We are made to feel sorry for
these inmates most of whom are suffering the consequences of their own
horrible crimes. And, as if doing the dirty work of the self-righteous
who stand in judgment over Andy isn't enough, the warden has the one
person who can get Andy out of prison executed. In spite of all of this
Andy maintains a hope for the future that "they" can't touch. The
Shawshank Redemption is a really good film that leaves the viewer with
a feeling of triumph and a life lesson that goes beyond prison walls.

******
23 September 2013
8
Perfect emotional movie for all ends reality of human behaviors Two
imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual
redemption through acts of common decency. The door bursts open. A MAN
and WOMAN enter, drunk and giggling, horny as hell. No sooner is the
door shut than they're all over each other, ripping at clothes, pawing
at flesh, mouths locked together.He gropes for a lamp, tries to turn it on, knocks it over instead. Hell
with it. He's got more urgent things to do, like getting her blouse
open and his hands on her breasts. She arches, moaning, fumbling with
his fly. He slams her against the wall, ripping her skirt. We hear
fabric tear.He enters her right then and there, roughly, up against the wall. She
cries out, hitting her head against the wall but not caring, grinding
against him, clawing his back, shivering with the sensations running
through her. He carries her across the room with her legs wrapped
around him. They fall onto the bed.

******
23 September 2013
10
One of the fantastic I ever watched. there are no words to praise this
movies. everyone should watch this movie.I am so impressed with Morgan Freeman in this movie. He just gave life
to this movie. He proved himself one of the best actor on the planet
earth.The story is very different. I was so thrilled as i finished watching
the movie. I was stunned with the ending. A great ending to the movie.
I added this movie to may favorite movie list. If anyone interested in
Hollywood movies then he should watch this movie.I have no words to
explain this movie because this is so much great movie that no one can
explain or criticize it.

******
22 September 2013
10
The movie, The Shawshank Redemption, which came out in 1994 is about
two main characters Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) and Ellis Boyd 'Red'
Redding (Morgan Freeman) and their journey through prison in the
1940's. Andy was falsely accused and sentenced to life imprisonment for
the murder of his wife and her lover. This movie represents integrity
as Andy never gives up and he knows that in the end he will be free as
he was falsely accused. He knew that one day the prison guards and
warden would pay their dues for how they ran their prison. This movie
shows it all and is absolutely a 10 out of 10. My favorite scene was when Andy was when Andy gets access to the room
where the microphone is set up to talk over the intercom. Andy plays a
record of two ladies singing and all of the prisoners sit in awe not
knowing what to think or how to feel. Red makes the statement that he
doesn't know what the two ladies were singing let alone saying but how
it brought peace over his mind and the others as the music was calming,
soothing, and a sight of the real world. This is a movie that you can watch it again right after you just
finished watching it. There is so much anticipation and as a viewer you
get wrapped up in the scene and the emotions that are the prisoners are
feeling. Another scene that really made me nervous was when Red is about to
leave to meet Andy in Buxton County and he signs his name on the board
where a previous prison member hung himself and had signed his name
before he committed suicide. In this scene, the viewers watches Red
sign his name and assume that he is going to hang himself but the scene
flashes forward to Red digging up a box that Andy had given him
directions to. In that box, there is cash and a post car of where Andy
is at. This film is absolutely amazing and I recommend it to anyone. I could
go on forever about this movie but it is a must see, it's a movie that
will have you thinking about it after you watch it. The friendship that
Andy and Red made was unbreakable; they had hope in one another. Each
character showed determination and courage, this is a movie that you
wont regret watching. On the other hand, a children's movie that shows integrity would be the
movie Antz. As adults watch Shawshank they can relate on multiple
levels as they have gone through life experiences where they have been
falsely accused or have been in a situation where they know if they
stay true to themselves then the right thing will happen. Same goes for
children in the movie Antz as Flick never gives up on himself or the
fact that he is trying to help his colony even when they are all
against him.

******
22 September 2013
10
truly one of the best movie i have ever seen.....the acting of Morgan
freeman is outstanding as it always is....also Tim Robbins has done
nice work......the plot of the movie is very enjoying and won't let you
get sleepy..the movie is very much interesting at all times and most of
the time you cant predict what's going to happen...also the cast of the
movie is very appropriate.when i watched the movie i was truly amazed
by the story and no matter its the best movie of all time....also the
direction of Frank Darabont is really worth appreciating...as his
direction made the movie really awesome...the movie again is truly
worth watching....i enjoyed watching this movie and hope you guys enjoy
it too....

******
22 September 2013
9
Outstanding film i have ever seen. one of the best film in my
library.The films shows the hope and struggle for the hope. The acting
and the direction of the films is marvelous.the strategy which the
actor made to escape from the prison was great. i am truly loving it.
it taught the audience a lot.Outstanding film i have ever seen. one of
the best film in mylibrary.The films shows the hope and struggle for
the hope. The acting and the direction of the films is marvelous.the
strategy which the actor made to escape from the prison was great. i am
truly loving it. it taught the audience a lot.Outstanding film i have
ever seen. one of the best film in my library.The films shows the hope
and struggle for the hope. The acting and the direction of the films is
marvelous.the strategy which the actor made to escape from the prison
was great. i am truly loving it. it taught the audience a lot.

******
21 September 2013
10
Frank Darabont has created a masterpiece with this film.The entire film is based upon the principle of institutionalisation,
with Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman playing two prisoners who over many
years become good friends.From start to finish the film is gripping, moving and inspiring.I am 24 and I usually love loud action movies etc. However you can't
beat films like this and I have to admit (cue cliché) they just don't
make films like this anymore.This is my favourite film and I would recommend this to anyone who has
not seen it yet to put it top of their watchlist.

******
21 September 2013
10
The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.

******
21 September 2013
7
Yes it's a fantastic movie. It does hit a huge range of genres and does
deserve a high placement. However, it was so talked up as "the perfect
movie" that it did lead to a disappointment the first time round. I did
thoroughly enjoy it but it isn't a movie that can be enjoyed and
experienced in any mood or situation. It's a fantastic movie but here's
a list of moods that this movie will NOT work in: Absolute chill,
Innocent, Brain dead, Crazy hypoAnd if you're already feeling down, maybe find something else to pick
you up. Definitely give it a go and see why it's so high and you will
enjoy it if you sit back, relax, and engage in the story.

******
20 September 2013
10
Shawshank Redemption Review The Shawshank Redemption is a brilliant
dramatic film directed and written by Frank Darabont. This film which
includes main characters Andy (Tim Robbins) and Red (Morgan Freeman)
make this movie and instant classic. Andy finds himself in prison with
Red who each comes from two complete different backgrounds. Andy and
Red end up end the same position but both have one mind in goal and
that is "to get busy living or get busy dying". This incredible story
of friendship and loyalty shows that even in the worst of times, you
can still make the best of the situation. Andy dreams of living outside
of prison and Red gives Andy a reality check many times over, while
serving their long prison sentences, to remind Andy that they are going
to die in the prison. Andy is a sly and smart and Red knows and likes
this about Andy. Andy feels like he can only trust Red in prison and
shows that if they ever get out of prison they will meet up and be
together on the outside. Andy learns that the chief guard played by
Clancy Brown needs tax help which before prison was Andy's specialty.
This propels Andy to take charge of all financial duties for the prison
assigned by the Warden. Little secret be known, that this eventually
helps Andy escape from the prison. This American classic shows how Andy
demises his escape from the prison while using the prison as a bank
account for himself. Meanwhile, Andy's best friend Red finds himself up
for parole many times over the years and gets rejected every time. Red
goes up for parole after being in prison for 40 years, and finds
himself on the "outside" finding it a whole new world than when he had
come into prison. Life being hard to deal with, Red goes to the place
that Andy wanted to meet. Here he finds a large amount of money and
makes a trip to a place called Zihuatanejo Mexico that Andy talked
about while in Prison. Finally these two meet up and live the life that
Andy had dreamed about. Shawshank is a heartwarming movie classic,
which shows that you can be happy in bad times and dreams do come true.
This American movie classic reminds you of films such as the Green
Mile. Each part of this movie moves you and the editing of this film
makes this movie seem flawless with incredible music to enhance each
character's role.

******
19 September 2013
7
The Shawshank Redemption is one the best movies i have ever watched,
acting crew are amazing as well as everything in the movie but i don't
think this movie should be the top rated movie of all time.the movie is truly an inspiring film where the based on true story
makes it more amazing although the movie gets the watching people a
little bit cold but all in all i can say its a nice movie. as i was
reading trough the other reviews of this movie, i came crossed a review
which said and i quote "The best movies are ones that touch the souls".
i disagree, best movies should be rated according to many aspects but
unfortunately the main contributing factor of rating movies nowadays is
based on "other peoples votes". all in all, i have to say if you haven't watched the movie yet, you are
not a movie person

******
19 September 2013
10
It turned my thought that how to achieve the goal with Patient. I am
really amazed. There is no confusion that theme of this story is nice.
I like to watch straggling life. It makes me determined to do anything
in this world. And I started to think everything is possible here;
nothing impossible. But when he went to bank I was afraid! What's going
to happen? Finally He broke the security and got the plan which he
made. I think noting bad here when he is a victim. There is no way for
him to do. So, It's was a perfect attack in the root of corruption. If
most of the victims in this world follow this way with Patient I think
it will be possible to make a little change. Although it's not so easy
to find similar minded human.

******
18 September 2013
8
This movie is really great, I enjoyed every minute of it. I want them
to make a sequel to it. I want them to add more graphics get new actors
and also try and get better locations.What I really like about this
movie is that it really captures that feeling of reconnecting with
people and how hard that can actually be. As I'm slowly closing in on
40 you see that you do not see the friends you hung out with as much
anymore. You still talk to them and get along, but do not have the same
connection anymore, simply because you do not share as much anymore as
you are used to. Of course those relationships have been pushed to
comedic proportions and are a great source for a lot of laughs. Simon
Pegg steals the show as the boy trapped in a man's body and the story
which initially starts out like a pub crawl soon turns into a pub brawl
and an awesome one at that.

******
13 September 2013
9
Forget about what others (including myself) might suggest you'll
discover in "The Shawshank Redemption;" when you watch it, you'll
identify something very personal in your own life with a scene, a
character, or a moment in this uncomplicated movie. When you need hope,
you'll look for Shawshank. When you want to believe in the will of
overcoming even the greatest obstacles, Shawshank will uplift you in
ways that you can't find in movies today.Some liken the film to some kind of spiritual awakening. Of course,
some can go to a church or mosque to find enlightenment and Faith in
humanity, but most places of worship are open only certain days or
times. But when you need affirmation of the lasting bond of friendships
that prevail over the most dire circumstances, Shawshank will give it
to you. It makes grown men (like me) cry, still. I wonder whether
Shawshank was truly meant for viewing in the privacy of the home,
because it is a personal experience that really makes you look inward.
Nominated for seven, this is the best film that never one a single
Oscar.

******
12 September 2013
10
A true masterpiece of modern cinema , with Forrest Gump and Pulp
Fiction , a film that has left its mark in the past 10 years. Frank
Darabont 's film , based on Stephen King material , captures in a way
that could not be more memorable triumph of human spirit over a hostile
destiny . Drama is built and crafted by the most thorough detail:
fine-tuned scenario , congealed story that makes you cry for a happy
end , which, although coming, though still not fully satisfy you (why
many films have done that ? ) . Each element of the decor brings its
contribution corresponding to the emotional tension of the film
developed . "The Shawshank Redemption" does not offer a tremendous
psychological challenge or any rational incentive contrary, his charm
lies in the emotional force that surrounds you slowly, carefully graded
and highly inspiring. Impressive great emotional impact , the film you
just steal a special atmosphere , a slight reconciled melancholy that
makes you actually feel your blood human . Drama protagonist move upon
you and they end up pushing the contemplation of the greatness of the
human being. But the film is balanced , never falls into a bathos ,
vulgar or boring . Cadence dose slowly and subtly flowing impressionism
, and finally can conclude proud : over all wrongs , than all the
sufferings , miseries rises above all human splendor . Great triumph of
human values ​​: patience, friendship , perseverance , selflessness is
portrayed as a human universal film without falling into the trap
American ( few directors escapes this trap , see Ridley Scott ,
Gladiator or Mel Gibson - Braveheart ) . The picture is superb, the
sets have a special importance , assembly includes interesting symmetry
, direction is gorgeous , Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman remain a
tandem famous all do their duty and drain your last tear ... but not in
an insidious , commercial and regret , the film is not at all a hoax ,
a scam , but has a substance perfect emotional density , highlighting ,
in a grand exquisite essences of humanity .

******
11 September 2013
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is one of those movies that I wished I'd
seen on the big screen. Thanks to videos, however, all was not lost.
Whether intentional or not, this film is about grace and hope, as well
as the redemption that can occur even in the most dark and degrading
corners of our world. Conceived and produced by the secular film
community, this engrossing film stands as one of the most entertaining,
thought-provoking dramas of this century.But, it's a film for mature audiences. It takes us to a setting that's
disturbing, uses language that's raw, showcases supporting characters
who are far from ideal role models, and reforms not one villain by the
ending credits. It deals with sex and violence, but never in a prurient
way. There are numerous brutal, occasionally fatal, beatings. No scene
is foisted onto us to incite our own lust or rage, but clearly shows
this type of action as harmful and wrong. The movie's theme is
redemption from a hellish place; it couldn't have been made without
these elements. I highly recommend watching it with an older teenager
and discussing it together in the light of many of the points I bring
up in this review.The hero, Andy Dufresne, is wrongly accused of killing his wife and
receives two life sentences. Steadily and quietly in prison, he wards
off the bitterness against that injustice and the further hardships he
suffers by doing good for others, even those that despise him. The
narrator is Red, a hardened and resourceful inmate who repeatedly warns
his friends that "Hope is a dangerous thing." The prison warden is a
hypocritical fanatic who uses the Lord, the Bible, and the people for
his own scheming, murdering purposes. Don't let this characterization
turn you off. It's not the hackneyed Hollywood cheap-shot believers
have come to expect. To make this moving allegory work, it's a
necessary depiction. In the best-seller of all time, a blameless Hero's
chief antagonist was the conservative religious coalition of the day
that carried out a sinister plot in order to maintain its own political
power. The picture is a truthful, thoughtful warning for Christian
America today and shouldn't be dismissed out of hand.In fact, there are many similarities between the heroes of "The
Shawshank Redemption" and The Gospel. The central characters are both
wrongly accused. One receives two life sentences and the other is
crucified. Neither are readily esteemed by their contemporaries. Andy's
a bankerhow can the average indebted-up-to-their-neck consumer
sympathize with that? Jesus is a Nazarenehow can any good thing come
from Nazareth? (John 1:45,46). While Andy is certainly flawed, the good
work he does while in prison actually serves a ruthless political end
that ends up holding him captive. Jesus was ridiculed and executed by
the same people He came to free.While the characters are believable and the script excellent, the
cinematography provides the important "view" in the film. Thick walls,
imposing fences, and confined spaces remind us of the oppression. The
guards relentless marching and the heavy bars slamming open and
slamming shut reinforce it. Dull, chipped walls in every room surround
the dulled, chipped lives of utterly hopeless men. But the camera
doesn't linger too long in this kind of darkness.Hope is scattered throughout this excellent film. Italian opera
broadcast over loudspeakers and senate appropriations for library
books. An ice cold one down your throat and the thought of a "place of
no memory" (Hebrews 8:12). High school equivalence exams and a
harmonica. Alexander Dumas and Rita Haworth.Hope triumphs gloriously in the end. It only takes 19 years. Andy
escapes the hard way and makes it possible for his friend to leave an
easier way. A note to Red reads, "I'll keep an eye out for you and the
chessboard ready for you." Strikingly similar to Christ's words to us,
"In my Father's house there are many rooms I am going there to prepare
a place for you." (John 14:2,3) In Christian theology, our Hope is
certain and our good future already begun because of Christ's death,
burial, and resurrectionpictures you can't miss in "The Shawshank
Redemption" .

******
10 September 2013
10
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
10 September 2013
9
The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.By creating the film's firm foundation, the meticulously chiseled
screenplay paved the way for this film's success. Frank Darabont
outdoes himself with the phenomenal adaptation of Stephen King's
equally noteworthy novella, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. In
this novella, King demonstrates that he can break free from the genre
he dominates and still create a marvelous piece of modern literature.
Though the film mirrors the novella in many ways, Darabont illustrates
a focused objective of improving upon the areas where the novella came
up short, resulting in one of the best book to film transitions ever.While maintaining some of the poetic and moving dialogue of the
novella, Darabont also proves that a film's score can generate a great
deal of emotional response from its audience, as dialogue does. He
employs the cunning Thomas Newman, son of the legendary Hollywood
composer, Alfred Newman. Darabont shows recognition for the film's
needs by employing Newman, who makes the gentle piano chords whisper
softly to the viewer, as if a part of the scripted dialogue. Newman
lends himself to individualism and tends to drive more towards the
unique in the realm of score composition. His effort in Shawshank did
not go unnoticed, as his score received an Oscar nomination in 1995.
While unique and independent, Newman's score never once intrudes on
your concentration or distracts from the film.With work from vast array of talented scene designers, costume
designers, composers, cinematographers, and various other Hollywood
artists, the cast of The Shawshank Redemption had a strong foundation
to work with. The marvelous cast of this film will dazzle you with some
of the most convincing performances you will witness in a film. While
both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman shine as Andy and Red,
respectively, the true spectacle of acting lies within the plethora of
amazing supporting actors who easily disappear into their roles. Most
noticeable of these, the veteran film star James Whitmore, who portrays
the elderly Brooks Hatlen. Brooks, a man incarcerated for an
unmentioned crime for so long that he finds himself attached to the
Shawshank and the daily life he has lead. Each of these actors show a
true dedication to their art, and a focused purpose in their
motivations, creating a convincing setting that never once caters to
anything unbelievable.With all of the aesthetic touches and attention to cinematic detail,
the most beautiful part of the film lies within its thematic material,
such as its focus on the human desires for the most abstract concepts,
like hope and freedom. These themes, which concern things the human
spirit undoubtedly yearns for, seem so intricately woven into the plot
that it easily draws its audience in to its story. Though full of
hardened criminals, your heart will go out to these men as they display
the most basic of human emotions, and deliver some of the most quotable
lines in a film to date. Like a great novel, this film manages to
succeed at greater things than simply entertaining an audience.
Darabont tells his story most masterfully, illustrating principles and
inspiring his audience to think. He leaves us a poignant film with a
powerful message of hope, and redemption, something we all seek.This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared
it long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability. Darabont
shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and
production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce
art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life
and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed
breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of film. It
proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and still
bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.

******
10 September 2013
10
The one film I have loved since I was young, being born a year before
it came out, means I missed the initial release, I had cried through
some amazing scenes and at the story line. Written and developed in such a way that this film, I beg everyone just
sit down and watch this on the edge of the sit film, with a box of
tissues and prepare for the film that had made some of the greatest
actors in Hollywood! With the recent shock that this film never made the budget and lost
about "£22,500,000" is shocking! The first time I watched this film I
was on my own, sat in the front room when I was 13, It broke me I had
to run upstairs to my mum and cry. Truly a great and breathtaking film!

******
8 September 2013
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont. ~ Mark Deming, Rovi

******
8 September 2013
10
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is an accountant who, accused of murdering
his wife, entered Shawshank prison in 1947. Dufresne, just like
everybody else, claims he is innocent. Only in his case, it's actually
true. Pretty soon his stoic manner gets the attention of narrator
Redding (Morgan Freeman). Redding is the local smuggler. He admires
Andy's positive attitude. Even the tough regime of Shawshank prison
can't break him.The life in Shawshank prison is presented as metaphor for our real
society. Wherein the "prisoners of life" accept their fate and stop
dreaming to avoid being disappointed. Offcourse there's always one who
is determined to break through.The Shawshank Redemption is a story about hope, friendship and
surviving within the walls of a heavily guarded prison. This movie is a
shiny jewel. It tastes like the freedom of a silver-blue bird a summer
day. Like strolling around the prison yard as if you could just leave
for a cocktail party at any moment. Freedom after twenty years of
confinement. The Shawshank Redemption colors the darkest mood sky-blue.
The color of the sea. The color of Andy's freedom.

******
8 September 2013
9
Awesome movie I have ever seen. I watch the movie again & again. The
actors acting was wonderful. This is a great movie. This is the most
popular movie in the world. It deserves the first ranking of IMDb. When
I first watched the movie it was just like unbelievable. Because the
story was great. For that greatest story, this movie takes place in
peoples heart. May be we won't see this type of movie again. But this
movie will live in our heart. Awesome movie I have ever seen. I watch
the movie again & again. The actors acting was wonderful. This is a
great movie. This is the most popular movie in the world. It deserves
the first ranking of IMDb. When I first watched the movie it was just
like unbelievable. Because the story was great. For that greatest
story, this movie takes place in peoples heart. May be we won't see
this type of movie again. But this movie will live in our heart.

******
7 September 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption can be considered an old movie, but with time
I realize that there will not be a better movie than this. It's
emotional, with a strong impact and with a perfect actors game.Nowdays the world movie store gives us a huge diversity , from exciting
action movies and frightening and intriguing thrillers or horrors to
emotional dramas, bun no one of them is capable to transmit such a
comprehensive package of emotions : concern, intrigue, sadness, pity
and elation especially. The action line is so complex that with no effort awakens admiration
and astonishment. The message is very profound, and it manages to touch
the heart and the spiritual world of the every viewer.Thank you Frank Darabont and Stephen King for the best movie ever!

******
6 September 2013
9
In THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted
for the murder of his wife and her lover, and sent to prison. It's
1949, and Andy doesn't have the stuff for prison life. Andy befriends
"Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman) and uses his past as a banker to get a
job in the prison library. But things unravel. In doing the books for
the warden, he learns that the prison boss is taking bribes, and Andy
is to launder them. A lovable former inmate hangs himself when he gets
to the outside after decades behind bars and can't adjust. The inmate
whom Andy helps get his GED is shot by the guards to keep him quiet
about information that might prove Andy is innocent of the murders and
set him free. Andy spends two months in solitary. After he gets out, he
seems depressed and Red worries he'll kill himself. The next day, Andy
isn't dead, but he isn't there, either. He's escaped. The rest is a
perfect Stephen King happy ending, complete with ill will for the
corrupt warden. Steven King's Best book to film of all time.

******
5 September 2013
10
Review #1 of "My Top ten Favorite Movies" Reviews I'm not going to go through a whole review, since there are plenty of
reviews detailing why this is the greatest movie of all time. I'm just
gonna give a quote:"The Shawshank Redemption is the best movie I have ever seen because of
its ability to capture raw emotion." I'm also going to elaborate on the three biggest reasons people dislike
this movie.1. It's too slow.The Shawshank Redemption may be a tad slow, but it is justified. I
believe director Frank Darabont wanted to show Andy's time at Shawshank
by showing how slow prison time really is. Some movies are just slow;
this movie does it for a deeper reason, adding to Shawshank's genius.2. Andy Dufresne barely shows emotion.Those people obviously didn't get what kind of character Andy was. Tim
Robbins did this on purpose. Andy was quiet, mellow, and was obviously
quite shocked and angry he was going to prison for a crime he didn't
do. Did you really expect the man to jump up and start singing
"Kumbaya"? No! So I don't get what the problem is. The fact that he
acted like this just added to the realistic atmosphere of the movie.3. This is not realistic.Oh yes your right, since these men in prison smoked, cursed, drank, and
kept their eyes peeled in the shower room for potential rapists. That
is not realistic at all. (sarcastic) Overall, I think some of the hate
on Shawshank is solely because it is the highest rated movie on IMDb,
for a fact. (User rating is 9.3 to this date). I think some people hate
this movie because everyone else loves it, and that is a bad way to
think about anything, not just movies.HandHStudios Rating: 10/10, and everything higher.

******
5 September 2013
9
the main effect used in the movie is that the inside story is kept
preserved for most of the time in the movie and revealed suddenly at
the last movement . this was a great journey. the story narration of
the movie is perfect.the direction of the movie from starting to the
last is very much appreciatedthis movie also teaches us that whatever be the way we have to struggle
continuously in our life. and one day we will o=purely get success.as a whole it was a very good movie and this type of movie should be
appreciated. may be it does not have a very true story but this movie
proves that only script does not matters

******
4 September 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best all-round movies of all
time. The story is powerful in that it represents real issues in
society, not petty ones that a lot of movies nowadays base their
stories off of, that are usually unrealistic anyways. The characters
are interesting and have strong character arcs, and the highs and lows
are extreme highs and lows, there's not doubt you'll be moved by this
story. And to top it all off the acting is well executed, believable,
and entertaining. It raised the bar for movies for ever. If you haven't
seen this movie yet I'd say it is a "must see movie" in my books. Do
not hesitate to give it a couple hours of your time, you will not be
disappointed.

******
3 September 2013
6
I'll go ahead and speak plainly about events from the movie, not caring
too much about spoiling or not. If you haven't seen the movie and do
not want the major plot twists told beforehand you should avoid this
review.I must admit I was one of those guys who went on a hunt for this movie
just because it is the highest rated movie on this website. It was
second place on general public top 250 when I decided I had to see it.
Not to mention most recent high-rated films I am familiar with to a
point of remembering, or hearing about; this one wasn't the case.To tell the truth I watched the movie three times now and I still
haven't seen anything resembling greatness to be the highest acclaimed
film in the most important website about cinema in the planet.It's not bad, but I found overshadowed by the immense hype surrounding
it. It's certainly 7/10 material in my book, but the idiotic fanboys
along with the constant praise for it being superior film-making just
slides it down a notch or two.The story about a guy that is innocently convicted and how his life
develops inside the prison with a friend named Red and a few surprises
here and there is well told. The so-called message it carries? Well, it
seems people are all about that "hope" thing since he indeed is
innocent of the crime he's in for, and how eventually he escapes prison
leaving behind a hostile environment that never really believed in him,
a warden that exploited his dry as much as he could, and of course
beating the error of the system in his own game.He loses his whole life while at it though, but who cares, it's all
about hope. It's hard to relate anything to real life since even the
finale seems too wonderful to be true. The guy just goes to an obscure
island and lives happily ever after. Even Red drops by when he's
finally out on parole. Great deal.After 30 years digging a tunnel with a miniature pickaxe after being
wrongly convicted for a crime he did not commit and stealing from the
corrupt warden in the process sounds the absolute catharsis for some, I
thought it was sad, sad that he lost his whole life in a prison, sad
that he had to put up with all that crap for so long, sad that he must
have been reintegrated after a while if somehow his story went on. Call
me a pessimist, but that's not hope.I sometimes wonder what so many people saw in this movie that I was the
only one on planet earth who did not quite "get it". The only thing
this movie taught me more than anything else is that democracy is not
always the best regime. What did every one suddenly see that back in
1994 people did not? Maybe it's an internet this right? Internet stuff,
that serious business. This strange Leviathan that transforms unknown
South-Korean pop singers in music sensations and record-holders for
most watched movie on the planet. The internet, maybe someone watched
it and thought it would be funny to invent a secret message, so deep,
so unworldly, so incredible and anyone who could not "see it" was
instantly deemed unworthy.That monster that drives everyone to think this average movie should be
considered some kind of demigod due to its averageness. We see that
because we're average, enlightened beings see greatness, colossal
messages within that lifts the human spirit, cleanse our souls with its
reach.The movie was good, and that's about it.

******
2 September 2013
10
The Shawshenk Redenption is best movie i ever seen in this category.You
can watch great acting from Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. I think
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins makes they best in this film.
Congragulations for the writer because it's a Great story. Maybe it's
simple but very strong and attractive scenario.İn the scenario the
surprises make the film better.. İ would like to thanks all the person
who worked for this fantastic movie. The story takes you from the
beginning and you are putting your self into the Tim Robbins.Simple and
strong. I will watch again with my family. İt show you, there is no
need only computer tricks for make good movies

******
1 September 2013
9
Best movie i have ever seen. its gonna blow your mind to bits. when i
started watching, i took the movie lightly. but the movie kept getting
interesting. the outstanding playback, and world class acting by everyone in the
movie. every role in movie played a tremendous role. when i watched the
movie, i could not believe what kind of movie i have just witnessed.
seriously, watch it.now, i have great respect for director, and yes... morgan freeman, the
man who is everywhere, legendary actor. he was in 105 movies, this one
is one of the best.

******
1 September 2013
8
When I watched Shawshank Redemption at first,I had been in the high
school and this film left a good impression with me, I say that I
learned how to follow your passions and hopes, how to struggle to be
free. And " don't never forget,hope is good something and good
somethings never die " this sentence which passes in the film, I always
believe it every part of mine. Because A person lives with his or her
hopes and passions so, If it is seized from people,that people lose
their aims in the life. And what the best properties of this film, It
shows that hopes and passions are indispensable for people...In
addition to my review about Shawshank Redemption, Whenever I watch this
film, I learn that it puts in new things my life. It is so important
for every watcher, Shawshank Redemption should be watched and I advise
it to you :)

******
29 August 2013
10
This is a brilliant movie with a great cast and realistic sets! This is
a movie that everyone should see its story is beautiful and very well
presented! Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were brilliant for the parts
they played, it had a great ending and a good tense climate, i will not
mention the plot in this review as it is so brilliant and anyone
reading this who has not yet viewed this movie must do so soon! The
post production work added great sound effects and music soundtracks.
It was filmed beautifully and the camera work was superb, and great
work from the cinematographer as the locations were very well set for
the movie I am going to keep this short and sweet tot give you time to
go out and buy the DVD and indulge yourself in a film masterpiece!

******
29 August 2013
10
Little that I write here is going to add or detract from the thousands
of glowing reviews already posted for this film, so just to be
consistent with the opinions of mostly everyone else and reinforce its
very high rating, I'm adding my own 10/10.It's one of those films that can be watched again and again, and never
get old.Yes, there are a few flaws, especially one particular continuity error.
The film spans over two decades of prison life but the clothes never
change. Everyone wears the same baggy 1950's slacks and shirts
throughout.I've always found it easier to find fault than give praise, but this
really is a great film. Brilliant in every respect.One more for the ten-out-of-ten pot.

******
28 August 2013
10
This movie absolutely tugs at every emotional string during it's
powerful story line and triumph. This a must see and also a classic.
Regardless of your personal preference and movie demographic, this
movie will not disappoint. And of course Morgan Freeman in my opinion,
is and always will be one of/is the greatest actor(s) of all time. I
remember watching this as a child and even being moved but not
necessarily understanding the basis of it. Now being older and watching
it multiple times it never looses it's edge. And hopefully generations
from now can enjoy it as I have. And I also own the VHS (Remember
those? lol). And the Blu ray edition along with the DVD. Well enough
rambling and I apologize, I just truly love this movie.

******
28 August 2013
9
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
28 August 2013
10
Shawshank Redemption is the one of the best classic movies ever made.
The plot, the narration of Morgan freeman, the story, characterization,
everything else in this movie makes you feel carried away to a another
world. Once you done watching this movie you feel gifted as you are a free
man, the happiness only a free man can feel.Andy Dufrense (Tim Robbins) who got sentenced for life makes friends in
prison. Red (Morgan Freeman) the man who knows to get things becomes
the best friend of Andy and thus the story continues about their stay
in the prison for almost 20 years.This is the best movie i have ever seen in my life. The experience is
just sooo satisfactory.....the happiness you feel at the ending is
outstanding

******
28 August 2013
10
As mentioned In summary 'Masterpiece' is an apt word for this film . It
is filled with Everything what the Viewers Needed . Dark And sensuality
makes the film very realistic . All characters lived their roles and
The best performance however, comes from Morgan Freeman as Red, suave
yet very charismatic. Acting isn't just about your vocal range, it's
about depth, which was what Freeman certainly had. In short.. Awesome
movie Give it a Look and u will never feel wasted . Masterpiece at its
best .There is not a dull moment or poor line of dialogue in this film.
Credit first time director Frank Darabont for this remarkable piece of
work. I still can't believe this was his first movie!, he will find it
hard to top this masterful film. Special mention must be made of the
music score by Thomas Newman, who has composed a simple, but perfect
score for this film. His scoring of the scene with Andy and Red sitting
up against the wall discussing their plans for release is nothing short
of brilliant, as is the rest of his score.Give it a Watch for sure .

******
27 August 2013
10
Don't believe anyone who says that this film is overrated. In my view,
it is one of the most outstanding pieces of cinema in recent times. The reason that Shawshank is so good is that it is marvellously
well-executed in several aspects. The most notable of these is the
acting - Morgan Freeman is in fine form as Red, a long-serving inmate
who befriends new prisoner Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins.
Robbins' performance left me amazed as his portrayal of Andy was so
rich and layered that even the most cynical viewer would struggle not
to feel for him. The journey of the character, his struggles and his
victories, great and small, are so deeply satisfying that you cannot
tear your eyes away from it. The story also has great pacing, courtesy
of director Frank Darabont - it never feels hurried, nor does it drag.
The development of the friendship between Andy and Red is done
particularly well; the way it changes and grows deeper as time passes
(the film spans nearly 20 years), and how you learn more about each
character, feels natural. Darabont also perfectly captures the
atmosphere of life in Shawshank prison. The script is gold, giving a
fantastic narrative through Red, and including some rather poignant
sentiments that we can all connect with on some level - mainly, Andy's
thoughts on hope and freedom. There is some discussion over whether The Shawshank Redemption or the
Godfather is more deserving of the #1 film spot. For me, there's no
contest - yes, The Godfather is a great piece of film in many ways, but
the fact is that it doesn't satisfy you nearly as much as Shawshank on
any level. This film feels like it matters, and by the end (without
trying to sound too corny), it leaves you with a sense of sheer joy and
wonder that is rare in films nowadays. Well-made, outstandingly acted
and deeply satisfying, this incredible film strikes a chord with us
all, and deserves every bit of praise that it gets.

******
27 August 2013
9
The movie features friendship and the bond created between two
strangers who have never met each other before. How they feel comfort
in a place like Shawshank which I can say is a Hell in real life. Kudos
to the directors and actors for such a lovely masterpiece and a must
watch for all movie lovers. Even those jaded film fans will love "The
Shawshank Redemption" because it sets a new standard for films in this
genre. The movie will make you emotional and sometimes sentimental take
on friendship and life, even when that life is spent in a cage, and
will make viewers laugh, cry, and reflect on their own lives in ways
that very few movies can. It may not have won a single Oscar, but it
will win your heart, and perhaps that is more important and you will
realize it once you have watched this one. A strong recommendation.MJ

******
26 August 2013
10
It's a great movie. recommended for watching. The only other movie I
have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To Kill a Mockingbird.
Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having watched them. With work
from vast array of talented scene designers, costume designers,
composers, cinematographers, and various other Hollywood artists, the
cast of The Shawshank Redemption had a strong foundation to work with.
The marvelous cast of this film will dazzle you with some of the most
convincing performances you will witness in a film. While both Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman shine as Andy and Red, respectively, the
true spectacle of acting lies within the plethora of amazing supporting
actors who easily disappear into their roles. Most noticeable of these,
the veteran film star James Whitmore, who portrays the elderly Brooks
Hatlen. Brooks, a man incarcerated for an unmentioned crime for so long
that he finds himself attached to the Shawshank and the daily life he
has lead. Each of these actors show a true dedication to their art, and
a focused purpose in their motivations, creating a convincing setting
that never once caters to anything unbelievable.

******
26 August 2013
9
An epic movie about how strong the relations between humans can be when
the freedom is taken and is replaced by the dedication, hope and trust.
When your universe has fallen you become undressed of the world's
pervert feelings and your inside broken castle reborns. The main
character of the movie gives us a lesson of how much the inside dreams
must be followed by any means, even if the sorrow is against us. Places
like the prison gives the real image of the value inside the people.
The optimistic final in the movie is a message to all of us that if we
follow our ideals passing through the harshest conditions we will
realise that everything is possible and we will become better people.

******
26 August 2013
10
Can Hollywood, usually creating things for entertainment purposes only,
create art? To create something of this nature, a director must
approach it in a most meticulous manner, due to the delicacy of the
process. Such a daunting task requires an extremely capable artist with
an undeniable managerial capacity and an acutely developed awareness of
each element of art in their films, the most prominent; music, visuals,
script, and acting. These elements, each equally important, must
succeed independently, yet still form a harmonious union, because this
mixture determines the fate of the artist's opus. Though already well
known amongst his colleagues for his notable skills at writing and
directing, Frank Darabont emerges with his feature film directorial
debut, The Shawshank Redemption. Proving himself already a master of
the craft, Darabont managed to create one of the most recognizable
independent releases in the history of Hollywood. The Shawshank
Redemption defines a genre, defies the odds, compels the emotions, and
brings an era of artistically influential films back to Hollywood.The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.

******
25 August 2013
10
One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
25 August 2013
10
An exceptional drama with one of the best on-screen duos in Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins. Writer/Director Frank Darabont made on of the
must-see movies for any film fanatic. Yes, the film might be bit
overrated, but that doesn't mean that it's not worthy of the praise it
has been getting over the years.The story is gripping and timeless and is good for multiple viewing.
Cinematography is beautiful and the execution of the time frame is
stung.The film is not without its flaws but they are so minor that they
are over shadowed by how the film carries itself. Whether you like the
movie or not is always subjective, but one thing is for sure The
Shawshank Redemption will leave an impression on you.

******
24 August 2013
10
This is the best movie I've ever watched!! It told a moving story very
effectively. Former banker Andy Dusfresne is wrongly convicted for a
double murder and sent to Shawshank Prison. The first few years are a
struggle but he eventually carves out for a place for himself and
benefits the other inmates in the process, winning favours through
helping the guards and warden with financial planning and expanding the
prison's meagre library. He becomes solid friends with Red, a black man
who entered 20 years before and is highly resourceful. What resonates with the audience is Andy's clinging to hope. The
saddest part was when the boy that Andy had been tutoring obtained a
high school diploma, but shortly after, was shot dead under the
warden's orders as he had knowledge that could prove Andy innocent.
Following that, Red tells Andy that hope is a dangerous thing. Bur
further events prove that hope is in fact a good thing (as Andy tells
Red in a letter) - Andy escapes through a hole he dug in his cell wall
(hidden behind a large poster of a hot woman) and escapes to Mexico
using a false identity and cash that he'd procured while laundering
money for the warden. Before leaving, he submits evidence incriminating
the hypocritical warden. As the cross-stitching on the warden's office
wall reads, judgment does indeed come! Red is released soon after and
struggles to adapt to the outside the world. But for Andy's invitation
to join him, Red would probably have gone down the path of Brooks, who
committed suicide.The Shawshank Redemption combined a message of hope with wonderful
storytelling and attention to detail. It's truly a masterpiece.

******
22 August 2013
9
It has been a pretty long time since i have seen such a great movie ,
great actors and great play of roles. Watching this movie made me
realize a little evolution on movies spirit,knowing that lately film
companies are trying to put technology first. In general , the movie
managed to build a very strong emotional link between characters in the
film , and apparently , that link is strong enough to make us feel for
them and share feelings with the cast.I simply love everything about
this movie, beginning from Andy's first day in prison , to his last day
locked.I was impressed with the details ,they were perfectly
handled,(per say) like the time when Andy tried to hit the pipes on the
same time with the storm so the guards would not hear him trying to
escape. Those little things matter a lot. I gave it a 10 and enjoyed
watching it. Simply beautiful.

******
22 August 2013
10
this was a very good movie very very excellent it was fantastic, i
watched it in school for government class. i would watch this a million
times this is so very good I wish there were a part two of the movie I
would pay to see part two this was a super good movie there should be a
part 3 and a part 4 this was a very good movie and excellent quality. I
wish i were able to be in the movie. i would of done very good in this
movie. there should be a remake I like the part where he broke out of
jail he fell in some nasty stuff but overall it was a very good movie
if i were in the movie I don't know what part i would do but i would
try to do as good as the other cast members

******
19 August 2013
10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. What a story and screenplay. It is a simple film, yet it
has an everlasting message. Written and directed by Frank Darabont.
I'll Never forget this movie in my life. The opening aerial shots of the prison are a total eye-opener. This
film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared it
long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability. This movie has a foundation and just kept on being built on from their
and that foundation is hope.But the one thing which makes THE SHAWSHANK
REDEMPTION stand above all other films, is the attention given to the
story.

******
18 August 2013
10
First things first, ill admit it. I went in to shawshank with low
expectations.I was expecting a two hour bore- fest, a type of
godfather/citizen Kane film which as a film fan you MUST watch, and
MUST love, and if you don't you just don't get it. But I didn't get
that. Not at all.Within the first half hour, this film got more emotion out of me than
most others get throughout their whole running time, all simply from a
(ahem) slightly over weight man weeping, calling out for his mother,
all while the other prisoners are teasing him in their cells.The first
act ofthe film constantly has this dark feel to it, inserting it deep
in yourmind that prison is not a nice place. Red, brilliantly played by
Morganfreeman, describes andys daily attempted rapes by "the sisters".
We are shown a recently set free prisoner killing himself. This first
act is hard to watch. Not as in boring, or gory. In fact, I found some
of the scenes in this part harder to watch than I found saw. But get
through the first act, it sets you up for a second act. A second act of
hope. A second act of friendship. A second act of humour. And for the
leads, a second act if redemption. The two slowly, through general
decency, start to become better people then they were on the outside (
albeit, one getting institutionalised(watch the film or get a
dictionary)). To say best film is a bold statement as a film fan, on the Internet, in
a world that has gems such as the godfather, apocalypse now, citizen
Kane, goodfellas, Casablanca, the list goes on and on. But what this
film does more so than the others is make you feel something, deep down
inside of you. A feeling that will stay with you days after you watch
it.

******
17 August 2013
10
I saw this film when I was fourteen, and at the time it was the most
flawlessly impressive piece of storytelling I had ever seen. If I were
forced to make a top 10 list this movie would certainly be right up
there. Robbins and Freeman are both incredible, and as good as they are
in other films I would still say it remains their finest work. The
scenery and costumes, the prison which if I remember right was an
actual prison back around the same time the film took place. It is all
so rich with texture and detail that it draws you in. The story is
great, Stephen King has written some amazing stories and this is a
testament that he is not just a horror novel expert. The actors all
take it to the next level and make it a pretty much perfect film. It is
pretentious to say a film or any piece of art is perfect, however I
honestly can't say there is anything I dislike about the film. No scene
seems long and unnecessary, every actor is perfectly cast and feels
very authentic. It really is the real deal. Like American History X and
some other films it is a movie that everyone with a moderately high IQ
and a love of cinema should see one day.

******
17 August 2013
8
A good fast paced movie. Not your typical prison movie. Tim Robbins has
a cool demeanor and Morgan Freeman does a great job in his supporting
role as well as narrating the film. Kudos also to the warden and his
sadistic enforcer. This movie has a lot more character development and
depth than your typical prison movie. It can be slightly depressing at
times but what drama isn't? I'm not even the drama type and even I
liked this movie. This movie does a great job of evoking feelings of
fear, anger, excitement, sadness, hope and inspiration. This film isn't
for the faint of heart. The music score contributes greatly to the
film. A must- see for drama lovers.

******
17 August 2013
10
This is probably my favorite movie of all time. It lacks intense
graphics and sex appeal, and more modern day traits that interest me.
However, when someone asks me what my favorite movie is; I always have
to say Shawshank redemption. Morgan Freeman is an amazing actor that
has proved to be able to grow through the years. The plot is one that
appeals to nearly every person on the face of the earth. It's an
extreme underdog story, a simple man gets his revenge movie, and it's
wholesome. Nothing more could be asked of this story. Everyone has had
nightmares of being "locked up" for something they didn't do, and this
also appeals to that emotion.

******
17 August 2013
10
I will never forget how I was introduced to this film. My very abstract
thinking gypsy of a cousin was visiting our home and as we began
talking about films made mention of this one. She followed with the
traditional line of, "What!?! You have not seen that movie? Oh my God,
it's the GREATEST!". With reluctance(really....to be honest we just did
not want to be rude!), we all agreed to watch. What transpired over the
next 2+ hours was the greatest movie I have ever seen. This movie
covers every spectrum of the human existence possible. Death, life,
heartache, love, friendship, betrayal, injustice and of course justice
just to name a few. The entire movie is a roller coaster of the human
condition and the end will leave you bathing in tears and triumph. I
have seen so many movies both old and new in my life but this one is
just above them all. The last 20 minutes alone are worth the price of
admission.....A must watch for everyone.

******
16 August 2013
10
Why do I want to write the 999th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
16 August 2013
10
This article is about the 1994 film. For other uses, see The Shawshank
Redemption (disambiguation). The Shawshank Redemption
ShawshankRedemptionMoviePoster.Theatrical release poster Directed by
Frank Darabont Produced by Niki Marvin Screenplay by Frank Darabont
Based on Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption by Stephen King
Narrated by Morgan Freeman Starring Tim Robbins Morgan Freeman Music by
Thomas Newman Cinematography Roger Deakins Editing by Richard
Francis-Bruce Studio Castle Rock Entertainment Distributed by Columbia
Pictures (US) Rank Organisation (UK) Release date(s) September 23, 1994
(limited) October 14, 1994 (North America) Running time 142 minutes
Country United States Language English Budget $25 million[1] Box office
$28,341,469[1] The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film
written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman. Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a
banker who spends nearly two decades in Shawshank State Prison for the
murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence.
During his time at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd
"Red" Redding, and finds himself protected by the guards after the
warden begins using him in his money laundering operation.In 1947,
banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of murdering his wife
and her lover, based on circumstantial evidence, and is sentenced to
two consecutive life sentences at Shawshank State Penitentiary. Andy
quickly befriends contraband smuggler Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan
Freeman), an inmate serving a life sentence. Red procures a rock hammer
for Andy, allowing him to create small stone chess pieces. Red later
gets him a large poster of Rita Hayworth, followed in later years by
images of Marilyn Monroe and Raquel Welch. Andy works in the prison
laundry, but is regularly assaulted by the "bull queer" gang "the
Sisters" and their leader Bogs (Mark Rolston). In 1949, Andy overhears
the brutal chief guard Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown) complaining about
taxes on a forthcoming inheritance and informs him about a financial
loophole. After another vicious assault by the Sisters nearly kills
Andy, Hadley severely beats Bogs resulting in Bogs being sent to
another prison. Andy is not attacked again. Warden Samuel Norton (Bob
Gunton) meets with Andy and reassigns him to the prison library to
assist elderly inmate Brooks Hatlen (James Whitmore), a pretext for
Andy to manage financial duties for the prison. His advice and
expertise are soon sought by other guards at Shawshank and from nearby
prisons. Andy begins writing weekly letters to the state government for
funds to improve the decrepit library. In 1954, Brooks is freed on
parole, but unable to adjust to the outside world after 50 years in
prison, he hangs himself. Andy receives a library donation that
includes a recording of The Marriage of Figaro. He plays an excerpt
over the public address system, resulting in his receiving solitary
confinement. After his release, Andy explains that he holds onto hope
as something that the prison cannot take from him, but Red dismisses
the idea. In 1963, Norton begins exploiting prison labor for public
works, profiting by undercutting skilled labor costs and receiving
kickbacks. He has Andy launder the money using the alias "Randall
Stephens". In 1965, Tommy Williams (Gil Bellows) is incarcerated for
burglary. He joins Andy's and Red's circle of friends, and Andy helps
him pass his General Educational Development (G.E.D.) examinations. In
1966, after hearing the details of Andy's case, Tommy reveals that an
inmate at another prison claimed responsibility for an identical
murder, suggesting Andy's innocence. Andy approaches Norton with this
information, but the warden refuses to listen. Norton places Andy in
solitary confinement and has Hadley murder Tommy, under the guise of an
escape attempt. Andy refuses to continue with the scam, but Norton
threatens to destroy the library and take away his protection and
preferential treatment. After Andy is released from solitary
confinement, he tells Red of his dream of living in Zihuatanejo, a
Mexican Pacific coastal town. While Red shrugs it off as being
unrealistic, Andy instructs him, should he ever be freed, to visit a
specific hayfield near Buxton to retrieve a package. The next day at
roll call, upon finding Andy's cell empty, an irate Norton throws one
of Andy's rocks at the poster of Raquel Welch hanging on the wall. The
rock tears through the poster, revealing a tunnel that Andy had dug
with his rock hammer over the previous two decades. The previous night,
Andy escaped through the tunnel and the prison's sewage pipe with
Norton's ledger, containing details of the money laundering. While
guards search for him the following morning, Andy, posing as Randall
Stephens, visits several banks to withdraw the laundered money.
Finally, he sends the ledger and evidence of the corruption and murders
at Shawshank to a local newspaper. The police arrive at Shawshank and
take Hadley into custody, while Norton commits suicide to avoid arrest.
After serving 40 years, Red receives parole. He struggles to adapt to
life outside prison and fears he never will. Remembering his promise to
Andy, he visits Buxton and finds a cache containing money and a letter
asking him to come to Zihuatanejo. Red violates his parole and travels
to Fort Hancock, Texas to cross the border to Mexico, admitting he
finally feels hope. On a beach in Zihuatanejo, he finds Andy, and the
two friends are happily reunited.

******
15 August 2013
10
Of course this outstanding movie doesn't need my opinion, But Utterly I
felt obligated to review, so let's do this thing : -The story is
amazing, The sequence of the events, The surprise at the ending, I
loved it. -One of the greatest perks in movies is the moral of it,
which -in this case- hope, I find it mentally rewarding,Of course with
The subliminal messages of -keep trying- or -never give it a rest- .
-The characters are great, Specially Morgan's role (I'm just a big fan)
-Soundtrack is pretty good, Not excellent (I prefer Quentin Tarantino's
Taste of music, So I'm not criticizing the soundtrack because it's
fairly not my type) -And finally the best thing IMO about this movie
was its simplicity in everything, yet It delivers . thanks for taking
time reading my opinion :)

******
14 August 2013
10
great movie. i enjoyed when they broke princess leia out of her cell
and used the hole behind the poster to slide down the tunnel and away
from that huge boulder that was chasing them. king of the north! this
is a prison i would grow a tree at with seeds from a viper. where did
larry get those glasses with x ray vision. my vote is for the girl who
was born a boy. i'm not saying that sugar is in my blood but i can lift
a car over my head have you seen my clean and hairless feet my ears
look like a rusty clam after someone yells bingo 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 7 7 10 9
is all you ever need 6 to 4 is not about any particular trend of shoes
perry knocked over table!

******
14 August 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption is my favorite movie of all time. I love the
story and the cast and settings of the movie. I have seen the movie
many times, and each time I enjoy it more and more. I love Stephen
King's original story, and the way the movie script sticks closely to
this. All of the characters shine, especially Andy and Red. The message
of hope in the story has kept me strong over the years.I have a big question. In the "facts" list the music which Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins) plays over the P.A. system with the door to the
warden's office locked -- it says the music is "Duettino Sull'Aria or
Sull'aria the Soave Zeffaretto from the Marriage of Figaro by Mozart.
This is not true. The ORIGINAL music Andy plays is THE FLOWER DUET from
the opera LAKME by Debiles!!! MY QUESTION IS IF this is the original
music...why and when was there a change in this music?. The Flower Duet
is indeed the most inspiring and beautiful music ever composed and fits
very well with the stunning remarks in Morgan Freeman's
Thought/monologue. MY QUESTION IS what music is written in the book, if
it is or was it the choice of the director. or writer? Does anyone have
the actual book??? I emailed Rich Caparella of the classic station KUSC
since he planned to play THE FLOWER DUET on his program and he replied
that he found it quite interesting and assumed the problem was
concerning rights and contracts to play the music. But why the
cover-up??? I will not rest till I find out the truth about this,
because it kind of ruins the whole movie if that music has been
changed. The duet by Mozart is not inspiring AT ALL really compared to
The Flower Duet, likely the most beautiful music ever composed. Simon
Wilby simonwilby.com

******
12 August 2013
8
when i saw top movie ranking i found this one but my point of view is
this this movie is good but also made a hope for jail broken theme
..this is also not a good over all good example for best hope .... :).
OVERALL SCORE: 9.8/10 = A+ The Shawshank Redemption served as a message
of hope to Hollywood as well. More than any film in memory, it proved
there is life after box office. Besting Forrest and Fiction, it ran
solely on strong word of mouth and became the hottest rented film of
1995. It currently sits at #2 in the IMDb's Top 250 Films, occasionally
swapping spots with The Godfather as the top ranked film of all time --
redemption indeed. If you haven't seen it yet, what the hell are you
waiting for? As Andy says, "It comes down a simple choice, really.
Either get busy living, or get busy dying."

******
12 August 2013
10
I Don't know how many times i have watched this movie and i know i will
definitely watch it again,but this movie always inspire me whenever i
lost my hope and got imprisoned by fear of failure and wrongdoings,it
helps to conquer this premise.i often thrown in to oblivion,whenever i have no idea about what to do,
the one quote made me busy with my life is "Get busy living or Get busy
dying". In fact,quotes from the movie stick to my desktop which could
not be removed even by myself.Furthermore,the climax of the movie made me shocked as well as
concluded the bottom line "Hope is a Good Thing" which i still follow
and forever.

******
11 August 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movies I have ever seen.
When I was younger I would always see this movie playing on various
channels and always wondered why. What made this movie so special?
Well, the answer is pretty much everything in this movie is special,
from the performances of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman whose
characters are really fleshed out in subtle ways to the overall themes
that have made the movie so watchable ever since it was first released.
There is a reason this movie is still being played on channels to this
day! If you have not seen this movie, than go watch it immediately! You
wont regret it.

******
11 August 2013
10
I read the short story by Stephen King and I absolutely loved it! This
movie really pays tribute to both the writer and the story! There are
some minor differences but they are an improvement to the screen. I think just like M. Night Shyamalan is not just 'the master of
suspense and plot twists', Stephen King is not just a horror and
mystery genius. I think, in the end, all his stories (even the most
dark and gloomy and disturbing) are about HOPE. This movie really shows
that! The story is not just about redemption but about friendship and hope. I really recommend it! I think this is the best screen adaptation of a
Stephen King novel / short story and that includes The Shining.They only minor thing I would have changed about the movie is, if I
have to nitpick, loose the 'THE'. I think "SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION" would
have been a more powerful title.

******
8 August 2013
10
Question arose when I saw a movie with that high rating in IMDb. After
finally found this movie and saw it by myself, I can say that the
rating shows everything: this is one of a top movie you should watch
before you die. No matter that Shawshank was defeated in all its
nominations of Academy Award 1994: number of award is not always a
correct guideline to tell you whether a movie is good or not.The theme is just simple, if we compare with 2000s movies: mainly talks
about friendship and hope. In this almost-100-percent-male-actors film,
there is no special sound effect, science-fiction complicated visual
effect, super make-up on actors/actresses, just the story and dialogs.
But the theme is so unique, can say this is a signature film about
prison; and the message it brings will stay forever after you finished
watching, so that you'll never forget. That's why I gave a 10: I was
really surprised/shocked about this movie's ending, and even tried to
watch it again about 2-3 times!Still re-think to watch this movie? Trust me, you'll not disappointed.
And one more thing: don't compare it to Forrest Gump. Both of these
movies have distinct special messages themselves, both are good, both
are unique. And after that you'll be able to talk to everyone about the
message Shawshank brings.

******
8 August 2013
10
this is by far one of my favorite movies! Not only just because of
morgan Freeman sexy voice, but because of the flawless acting and
connection to the characters in the movie! If you're looking for a
movie with a great story line, then i will very much recommend this
movie. the pros of this movie is that it has well known and great actors in
it, a great storyline stretching over several dozen years.the cons can be that it is long, but for many people (like me) then
that can be a very good thing! i just thought i might as well add
something to the cons, so the movie seems more human, because this is a
movie where there's just nothing that you would wish to change. another
con would be that there's not too much action going on in it witch
there is a few people who likes.

******
7 August 2013
10
A day full of thoughts after you watch this and the remarkable feeling
how you make a movie like this. Time is totally worth it. Don't expect
it as a random prison story. Plain and simple.No action and effects.
The truth to ultimate reality. No goofs as there's an explanation to
every scene. I think every actor in the movie gave their best
performances. Just awesome. Sad feeling all around but ending is
awesome.Character Andy comes out to be cooler than you think he is and
shows everyone this isn't it and you might think and which i thought to
be so straight forward was his lucky cell location...which can
certainly be overlooked because after this is what he deserved as he
was innocent!

******
5 August 2013
10
Going to prison is never easy and almost an unimaginable experience for
most people. It's even worse if you are sentenced for fifty years
despite being innocent. Shawshank Redemption is an incredible movie. Not only because of its
fantastic narration and storytelling technique. Not only because of the
emotional yet inspirational performances put on by each and every
actor/actress. Not even the spectacular filming and perfect settings.
No, what makes Shawshank Redemption a truly excellent film is the
complete story and the very relatable tale that is the life of Andy
Dufresne.This movie focuses on the lives of minor characters, life in and out of
prison, and how the system has changed so many men and women
drastically. And it's these individual stories that make Andy's even
more special. He was able to stay strong, to manage without friends or
support in the worst times. He was a man no one would have looked at
twice. No one special. Just another person like you and me. Yet, his
story is one that we can all imagine ourselves in. Where bad
circumstances meet inexplicable motives, and it's being capable of
imagining ourselves in Andy's shoes that makes Shawshank Redemption
such a beautiful movie.This movie stands for a lot of things. Love, respect, peace and
friendship among other things. More so than the rest, Shawshank
Redemption is a story about hope. Having faith in the future, secretly
knowing good will overcome bad.No one knows what our future holds. But if we could all live like Andy,
optimistic and ever so kind in the most dire of situations, holding up
true justice, this world would be a better place.

******
5 August 2013
7
One Of the best movies I have seen The script was well written. The
characters played there parts well & were well suited for there picked
rolls. A well-educated banker imprisoned for the murder of his wife and
her lover, can do just as much damage inside prison as outside working
in a BANK!In 1947, banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of murdering
his wife and her lover, based on circumstantial evidence, and is
sentenced to two consecutive life sentences at Shawshank State
Penitentiary. Andy quickly befriends contraband smuggler Ellis "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman), an inmate serving a life sentence. Red
procures a rock hammer for Andy, allowing him to create small stone
chess pieces. Red later gets him a large poster of Rita Hayworth,
followed in later years by images of Marilyn Monroe and Raquel Welch.
Andy works in the prison laundry, but is regularly assaulted by the
"bull queer" gang "the Sisters" and their leader Bogs (Mark Rolston).In 1949, Andy overhears the brutal chief guard Byron Hadley (Clancy
Brown) complaining about taxes on a forthcoming inheritance and informs
him about a financial loophole. After another vicious assault by the
Sisters nearly kills Andy, Hadley severely beats Bogs resulting in Bogs
being sent to another prison. Andy is not attacked again. Warden Samuel
Norton (Bob Gunton) meets with Andy and reassigns him to the prison
library to assist elderly inmate Brooks Hatlen (James Whitmore), a
pretext for Andy to manage financial duties for the prison. His advice
and expertise are soon sought by other guards at Shawshank and from
nearby prisons. Andy begins writing weekly letters to the state
government for funds to improve the decrepit library.In 1954, Brooks is freed on parole but, unable to adjust to the outside
world after 50 years in prison, he hangs himself. Andy receives a
library donation that includes a recording of The Marriage of Figaro.
He plays an excerpt over the public address system, resulting in his
receiving solitary confinement. After his release, Andy explains that
he holds onto hope as something that the prison cannot take from him,
but Red dismisses the idea. In 1963, Norton begins exploiting prison
labor for public works, profiting by undercutting skilled labor costs
and receiving kickbacks. He has Andy launder the money using the alias
"Randall Stephens".In 1965, Tommy Williams (Gil Bellows) is incarcerated for burglary. He
joins Andy's and Red's circle of friends, and Andy helps him pass his
General Educational Development (G.E.D.) examinations. In 1966, after
hearing the details of Andy's case, Tommy reveals that an inmate at
another prison claimed responsibility for an identical murder,
suggesting Andy's innocence. Andy approaches Norton with this
information, but the warden refuses to listen. Norton places Andy in
solitary confinement and has Hadley murder Tommy, under the guise of an
escape attempt. Andy refuses to continue with the scam, but Norton
threatens to destroy the library and take away his protection and
preferential treatment. After Andy is released from solitary
confinement, he tells Red of his dream of living in Zihuatanejo, a
Mexican Pacific coastal town. While Red shrugs it off as being
unrealistic, Andy instructs him, should he ever be freed, to visit a
specific hayfield near Buxton to retrieve a package.The next day at roll call, upon finding Andy's cell empty, an irate
Norton throws one of Andy's rocks at the poster of Raquel Welch hanging
on the wall. The rock tears through the poster, revealing a tunnel that
Andy had dug with his rock hammer over the previous two decades. The
previous night, Andy escaped through the tunnel and the prison's sewage
pipe with Norton's ledger, containing details of the money laundering.
While guards search for him the following morning, Andy, posing as
Randall Stephens, visits several banks to withdraw the laundered money.
Finally, he sends the ledger and evidence of the corruption and murders
at Shawshank to a local newspaper. The police arrive at Shawshank and
take Hadley into custody, while Norton commits suicide to avoid arrest.After serving 40 years, Red receives parole. He struggles to adapt to
life outside prison and fears he never will. Remembering his promise to
Andy, he visits Buxton and finds a cache containing money and a letter
asking him to come to Zihuatanejo. Red violates his parole and travels
to Fort Hancock, Texas to cross the border to Mexico, admitting he
finally feels hope. On a beach in Zihuatanejo, he finds Andy, and the
two friends are happily reunited.

******
5 August 2013
10
An excellent Movie One of the best I've ever watched about two men who
seek redemption from the institutionalization of the prison. They seek
freedom yet like the place..It is about friendship,happiness,tears,.The
Movie is about a banker on how he is sent to prison for his wife's
murder and makes friends there He turns out to be very popular among
the inmates. The film brilliantly narrates the life of prisoners who
spend their lives decently. As it turns out that he is innocent He
finally Plans and breaks out of the prison.The movie is beautifully
written, directed,and the cherry on the top is Morgan Freeman and Tim
Robbins.... The dialogue delivery..the expression .. the acting holds
you during the entire movie...A must watch movie...

******
4 August 2013
8
The Shawshank Redemption The Shawshank redemption is a film that takes
place in the 1940s. Andy Dufresne, which is played by Tim Robins, is a
known banker located in Maine. He was sent to prison with two life
sentences, for the murder of his wife and her lover. Andy Dufrense
maintains his innocence throughout the film. Andy serves as the main
character for the film. Ellis Redding, which is played by Morgan
Freeman and goes by the nickname red, is known as the go to guy. When
Andy arrives to the prison, Red places a bet with the other inmates
that Andy would be the one to break down first, out of all the inmates
that arrived with Andy on the bus. Andy gains knowledge of Red's
capability to obtain contraband and approaches with an order. From then
on, Andy and Red become inseparable for the duration of the film. There
are many themes employed in the film, but I believe the most
significant theme is "hope". Andy continues to maintain his innocence
even after his conviction and hopes he will one day be released. Red
and Andy talk about future plans that they hope will one day come true,
once they are released from prison. Andy begins working in the laundry
room and is seen as fresh meat to a group known as the sisters. The
sisters are a known group of inmates that pick out weak inmates to
abuse and rape. The sisters begin to rape and beat Andy shortly after
they encounter the opportunity. The abuse and rape continues on for
several years, until Andy gets picked to repair the prisons roof. This
gave Andy a sigh of hope that there is an escape path. He was able to
escape the abuse that he endured from the sisters, so he believed he
would be able to escape prison all together. The lighting in the film
establishes great lighting effects. The director utilizes low-key
lighting for the scenes in the prison. The low-key lighting creates a
gloomy dreadful feel to the scenes. This lighting was chosen by the
director to give the prison scenes an intense dramatic feel. High-key
lighting was utilized for the outdoor scenes, which employed a feeling
of happiness and hope. This intrigued Andy to want to escape prison and
helped him make a final decision, which was to escape prison once his
tunnel was finished. Hope kept Andy going and kept him striving to
survive. Even when he endured the most severe hardships, he never lost
hope to one day escape his pain. Overall the film was a magnificent
production. The movie received several Academy awards including,
American Society of Cinematographers Award for Outstanding Achievement
in Cinematography in Theatrical Releases and Japan Academy Prize for
Outstanding Foreign Language Film. The film did not receive much profit
while in theaters, but has received promising reviews from critics.

******
3 August 2013
10
'Get busy livin' or get busy dyin', that's damn right'.A stand-out performance from the magnificent movie maestro Morgan
Freeman, whom leads this spectacular motion picture with fantastic
style as the enigmatic convict known as Red, earning himself a well
deserved Academy Award nomination. Tim Robbins plays our main
protagonist, Andy Dufresne, an innocent banker charged with the murder
of his wife, a crime he did not commit. The film chronicles Dufresne's
time in Shawshank Penetentiary, from the first day meeting the
'more-than welcome' guards, to dirty deals with corrupt Warden Sharp
(played by a superb Bob Gunton), to befriending characters like Red and
Brooks, a 70-something long-sentence server acting as librarian (played
by James Whitmore, in one of his later roles) and to the momentous
break-out, symbolising everything this film stands for: hope. Shawshank is the perfect movie, great story, great actors and a great
director. The culmination of captivating music and scintillating
atmosphere transform this movie into something more: a legend. I would thoroughly recommend this film to anyone, it is a must watch.

******
3 August 2013
10
The movie starts bit slow, but right from the start you will feel that
you are into it. Every moment your mind will be wondering what will
happen next cos you never know. The director has made great effort to
make it like that. There are very few good movies that defines "Hope".
But non can challenge this one. The movie shows how good can happen
even in the worst, and to never loss hope. Morgan Freeman is another
master piece in this movie. Both his acting and narration touches our
heart. There are some extreme scenes in the movie that shows the
reality to what happens in a Prison. How people tend to behave during
the initial period and how they transform it to a routine that is to be
followed every single day. I am really great full that i saw this movie
and found a crucial part to believe in. If you are looking for a good
classical movie that has drama, suspense and a message than this will
be the best movies you will ever watch. If you are looking for a action
movie and hungry for blood then this is not for you.

******
3 August 2013
8
Paragraphically, at First, when I see the film, some Centinal stuffs
wasn't pull out. Due to many problems and unresolved conflicts, I see
it as a dump. But when I see it the second time, I understand what it
is about, and how it came to be the greatest drama of all time. It
benefits from a strong cast, feeling that Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman did the film themselves. They devoted to the film all they got.
From expression, to heavy feelings. They look us in the eye, and
expresses their demand for freedom and a life of a normal man. The film
drives us from jail to out, resulting some hard to be fitted in like
Brooks. It's an unique way, seeing the prisoners dealing with their
life afterward, not like any other films. It has a great script, a set
scene full of masterpiece coming to life after 20 years of finding it's
own success. It stepped out, starting as a bomb, but ended as a real
life and day with surviving and breakthrough hearted mean with the
Shawshank Prison

******
1 August 2013
10
I really can say that this movie is one of the best movies I have ever
watched in my life. Plus the heroes play a great & wonderful role which
makes you be a part of them & like you are in that prison with them!
Hail Tim Robbins! Hail Morgan Freeman!At the end Andy got his freedom as that is the justice! yet that devil
who were responsible for the prison is just a real corrupted person
which show us that you can find the innocent people inside jail & those
who are guilty is enjoying the life on account of others! This movie is
really sending us such a lesson which is you have to keep the faith up,
even if you feel or see all situations against you! You have to stuck
on your principles.

******
1 August 2013
10
I think this movie is very meaningful. I like it very much. You must
think so too. You must all have a lot to say. But according to what we
have appointed, Im the Chair, so please let me show you my opinion
first. The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy
Dufrense, victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a
conviction for the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick
conviction, Andy finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank
prison, with no hope of parole. He exists in this prison only in
appearance, keeping his mind free from the drab walls around him. His
ability to do this results in the gaining of respect from his fellow
inmates, but most of all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred
to as Red, finds gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the
drab walls of Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare
to the confines of prison. Andy\'s demeanor and undeniable sense of
hope causes Red to take a deeper look at himself, and the world around
him. Andy proves to Red and the other inmates that in the conventional
walls of Shawshank prison convention will find no home in his
lifestyle. As far as Im concerned, this movie shows us three things:
freedom, friendship, and hope. If we take a movie as a novel, then
Shawshank Redemption is a great novel without doubt. It reflects the
real social life, and creates several typical characters with Classic
Quotes and a few kinds of modifications. This movie organizes the main
scenario of the story in a simple way and at the same time using some
petty lines. It expresses the subject in a very artistic way. There
were three words, the first is freedom. However, what impressed me is
nearly everyone in the prison got accustomed to the prison life. Whats
more, an old man even suicide after he was set free. I have a very deep
feeling of friendship. The second word accrued to me is friendship.
Friendship is a necessary in our life. In this movie, the friendship
between Andy and Red moved me. It gave me an idea: getting a real
friendship is more important than money and power. Friendship is really
important, and in my opinion, it is very hard to get a real friendship.
When we don't have a real friend, we will feel very lonely. I may have
this feeling during these days. That is really incredibly hard. Also
there are some sentences in the movie that really impressed me. The
sentence I like most is hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things,
and no good thing ever dies. Because I think, it encourages people
appreciate the beauty of life, to keep their hope in heart forever. It
was as if some beautiful birds had flapped into our drab little cage
and made these walls dissolve away, and for the briefest of moments,
every last man in Shawshank felt free. From this sentence, I start to
know that, in fact, something cannot be noticed at all. That is like
the freedom of our heart. We need it, just like you have never
forgotten it. Another one is: Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set
you free. A strong man can save himself. A great man can save another.
I like this sentence because it teaches me to let me full of courage
and hopes. It urges me to have the determination to succeed. In the
end, I want to use a sentence to summarize this movie: Fear can hold
you prisoner. Hope can set you free.

******
1 August 2013
10
This is my first review on IMDb, and about the number one movie on the
TOP 250 because it deserves his title and there are people that think
that it didn't.The movie tells about a man that is made prisoner because of a crime he
claim he didn't committed and spend his days dreaming about freedom and
justice. The movies shows the bad things that happened to him on prison
and how hope makes him believe that he still can have his freedom, even
when things are pretty bad to him.And thats why this movie makes people fell better and makes we have
hope on ours own lives, because even when the things are really bad and
you (thinks) you have lost hope, there still hope, never give up of
your dreams and always believe that justice can be made! Like said by
Pittacus Lore in I Am Number Four: "When you have lost hope, you have
lost everything. And when you think all is lost, when all is dire and
bleak, there is always hope." and that is the reason because this movie
is on IMDb TOP, when we finish watching this movie your state of mind
is so good that we had the power to change our lives and believes that
everything is possible! That's the difference to the other movies, it
is not only entertainment with a great movie, but also can be a change
of perspective of life!

******
1 August 2013
10
I absolutely loved this movie. It's very heart warming and is full of
emotion. I loved it so much i even went to one of the prisons that the
movie took place in. Mansfield Ohio Reformatory. I recommend this movie
to anyone who likes Morgan Freeman and puzzle solving films. It is also
and inspirational film to look up on because of the story line and all
the different angles and what not. If you ever want to go to the prison
in Mansfield.. The scene where Mr. Brooks hangs himself in his apt and
carves his name was also shot in that very prison. I also must say that
this film brought me into tears of sadness and joy. The director was
really good at capturing the emotions for the viewers.

******
1 August 2013
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a movie about time, patience and loyalty
-- not sexy qualities, perhaps, but they grow on you during the
subterranean progress of this story, which is about how two men serving
life sentences in prison become friends and find a way to fight off
despair.The story is narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), who has been
inside the walls of Shawshank Prison for a very long time and is its
leading entrepreneur. He can get you whatever you need: cigarettes,
candy, even a little rock pick like an amateur geologist might use. One
day he and his fellow inmates watch the latest busload of prisoners
unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their first night in
prison, and who will not. Red bets on a tall, lanky guy named Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who looks like a babe in the woods.But Andy does not cry, and Red loses the cigarettes he wagered. Andy
turns out to be a surprise to everyone in Shawshank, because within him
is such a powerful reservoir of determination and strength that nothing
seems to break him. Andy was a banker on the outside, and he's in for
murder. He's apparently innocent, and there are all sorts of details
involving his case, but after a while they take on a kind of unreality;
all that counts inside prison is its own society -- who is strong, who
is not -- and the measured passage of time.Red is also a lifer. From time to time, measuring the decades, he goes
up in front of the parole board, and they measure the length of his
term (20 years, 30 years) and ask him if he thinks he has been
rehabilitated. Oh, most surely, yes, he replies; but the fire goes out
of his assurances as the years march past, and there is the sense that
he has been institutionalized -- that, like another old lifer who kills
himself after being paroled, he can no longer really envision life on
the outside.Red's narration of the story allows him to speak for all of the
prisoners, who sense a fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives
the years. Andy will not kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is
not violent, just formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob
Gunton), he is both a challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about
bookkeeping and tax preparation, and before long he's been moved out of
his prison job in the library and assigned to the warden's office,
where he sits behind an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's
ill-gotten gains. His fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes
and pension plans for most of the officials of the local prison system.There are key moments in the film, as when Andy uses his clout to get
some cold beers for his friends who are working on a roofing job. Or
when he befriends the old prison librarian (James Whitmore). Or when he
oversteps his boundaries and is thrown into solitary confinement. What
quietly amazes everyone in the prison -- and us, too -- is the way he
accepts the good and the bad as all part of some larger pattern than
only he can fully see.The partnership between the characters played by Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman is crucial to the way the story unfolds. This is not a "prison
drama" in any conventional sense of the word. It is not about violence,
riots or melodrama. The word "redemption" is in the title for a reason.
The movie is based on a story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption, by Stephen King, which is quite unlike most of King's work.
The horror here is not of the supernatural kind, but of the sort that
flows from the realization than 10, 20, 30 years of a man's life have
unreeled in the same unchanging daily prison routine.The director, Frank Darabont, paints the prison in drab grays and
shadows, so that when key events do occur, they seem to have a life of
their own.Andy, as played by Robbins, keeps his thoughts to himself. Red, as
Freeman plays him, is therefore a crucial element in the story: His
close observation of this man, down through the years, provides the way
we monitor changes and track the measure of his influence on those
around him. And all the time there is something else happening, hidden
and secret, which is revealed only at the end."The Shawshank Redemption" is not a depressing story, although I may
have made it sound that way. There is a lot of life and humor in it,
and warmth in the friendship that builds up between Andy and Red. There
is even excitement and suspense, although not when we expect it. But
mostly the film is an allegory about holding onto a sense of personal
worth, despite everything. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a
sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption.

******
1 August 2013
10
This movie is one of my favorites.First of all, scenes are so real in the mean time are dramatic enough. I especially liked the final scene and quotes about hope as movie
lasts. While watching, I did not expect that the film will have happy
ending so that one can think that escaping such kind of prison can
never be possible. However in the end, this process became successful
in a way that we can never imagine. From my point of view, with this
point, aim of movie is to show that in every hard situation it is
possible to succeed with just not losing hope and be optimistic about
our dreams which does not let us to give up, conversely to draw
conclusions even we can never imagine. This movie had really huge
impact on this side.

******
31 July 2013
8
A man is sent to prison and has to learn to adapt to prison life,,
there he meets a wise old gentleman who he befriends, and there
friendship grows immensely. along the way he meets different prison
characters, all of which are very likable... adapted from a short short
by Steven King,, this is a powerful movie,, showing prison life in the
early 20 th century. Tim Robbins was wonderful in this and should have
won an award,, Morgan freeman is captivating in his role as "Red" , Our
main character, Andy Dufrene plans a prison break and needs the help of
several of the inmates.. I wont' say what happens after his attempted
prison break,, but this is a touching movie, with a lot of character
development, and not much on the action,, but it really doesn't need to
have a lot of action,, lot's of humor abound, a movie about growing up
in person, and the people that you might, and the life struggles of
being in prison,, excellent movie.. but not the greatest of all time,,,
I can think of at least 10 better .

******
31 July 2013
10
One of my all time favourite movies. The film tells the story of Andy
Dufresne, a banker who spends nearly two decades in Shawshank State
Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of
innocence. During his time at the prison, he befriends a fellow inmate,
Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, and finds himself protected by the guards
after the warden begins using him in his money laundering operation.
Definitely worth the watch, if you haven't seen it. You are missing
out. It is well written, scripted and well acted by Freeman and
Robbins. This classic will be one that can be watched over and over.
Frank Darabont made this the classic it is.

******
31 July 2013
10
"Hope is a good thing and no good thing ever dies". This one line of
the film says it all, this movie is all about hope, and things which
you can relate to in your life. I became a huge fan of Freeman after
watching this movie. Movie is bit slow in starting but builds up pace
quickly. You start flowing with Andy and have a connect with him as the
movie progresses. The story goes like this- Andy is send for life time
imprisonment for allegedly killing his wife and her boyfriend,in jail
first few years were really bad but slowly he starts to find friend and
also some work. If I tell more than the whole suspense will come out.
The emotions carried out in each seen by red and Andy has been superb. Its a must watch!!

******
30 July 2013
10
I loved the Screenplay of this movie. How he narrate the story from
start to end. I watched this movie in my mother tang TAMIL. That was
awesome, That helped lot to understand each and every line of the
story. Some liken the film to some kind of spiritual awakening. Of
course, some can go to a church or mosque to find enlightenment and
Faith in humanity, but most places of worship are open only certain
days or times. Darabont comes onto the scene and makes arguably the
best King film ever. He seems to understand what King wants to say and
he conveys that beautifully.The bottom line is that The Shawshank
Redmption is a perfect movie. It takes you in from the opening scene
and doesn't let you go until long after it comes to a tremendous
close.like Thinner and Tommyknockers that border on unwatchable. In
conclusion Shawshank is a brilliant film, that is worthy of the credit
it has been denied for so-long.Very rarely are you left with a large
smile and warm heart at the end of a movie but, I could have danced as
the camera slowly panned back from the beach

******
29 July 2013
10
This is for sure my favourite pre-2000 movie. Its prison, its life, it
has everything a guy could ask for and I didn't even name half of the
stuff in this movie! You have Andy coming in for a crime he didn't even
commit, Tommy who got caught robbing some place, you even got Brooks
who kills himself because he couldn't handle being out of prison. I
haven't seen the movie in a while, but I can see myself watching it
tonight. My favourite part would have to be the ending when Red and
Andy meet in Mexico after Andy escapes, which I might add was really
cool too. How he dug a tunnel out and lead the guards off, that would
take major skill if Hollywood magic didn't exist. Well, anyway, watch
it. You will love it.

******
27 July 2013
10
The beginning of the film is remarkable, but when Andy finally gets out
of solitary confinement and is sitting against the wall next to Red,
you can feel the stress and the intensity of the movie. There is no
other movie that I have ever seen where a silent intensity has ever
been done so well. You as a member of the audience know that something
is going on, and the storytelling by Morgan Freeman seals the deal. The
acting in this film is remarkable, and the subplots and the heartfelt
ending of the film truly make this film worthy of the number one spot
on t list. The writers and casters of the film could not have selected
a better actor for Andy's part than Tim Robbins, with his logical,
calm, and reserved personality that reflected so well onto the film.
Finally, the realization of the other inmates that Andy is in fact
innocent is absolutely chilling, and has you rooting for the character
all along. This film is number one on the top 250 for a reason.

******
26 July 2013
9
Life in ShawShank Prison coalesces criminality, corruption, death,
truth, god and hope into a wonderful film starring Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman. Set in the 1940's, Andy Dufresne is a young and
successful banker whose life is altered forever when he is convicted
and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her
lover. Shawshank demonstrates how quickly and naively the criminal justice
system can wrongly convict a man and alter his destiny forever. Lady
justice clearly is incapable of knowing all things and rendering
perfect judgment.An innocent man at heart, Andy, with the help of his friend Red,
showcase the life of prisoners and put on full display internal prison
dynamics, the effects of lengthy prison sentences on the soul, the
process of rehabilitation, and the will to survive with hope to live
and fight another day. Following his conviction, Andy is tortured by a small immoral gang of
rapists until the warden places him in his protective womb. In exchange
for his services and help with financial matters Andy's stature grows
and his influence spreads. A friendly relationship develops over the
years, with Andy eventually processing tax returns, and subsequently
running a fraudulent scheme for the warden. Surprise twists find its way in the form of a truth telling inmate
overhearing the real killer of Andy's wife. Warden Norton wants no part
in this, fearing for his operations and control of the institution.
Quickly he pours ice on the idea, and subjugates Andy to physical
torment to bend his will.Ever the precocious young lad, Andy secretly plots for over 20 years
and reveals an astounding and ingenious strike to send Warden Norton
into a suicidal finale.Shawshank is a classic, darker than The Green Mile, yet truthfully a
reflection of how the system can go so very wrong. Sometimes, truth and
justice are not good enough, and one must rely on himself to adequately
realign the scales.

******
26 July 2013
10
This is without a doubt one of the best movies I have ever watched. It
has everything you can ever ask from a movie without being cheesy or
over the top on any score.I love the way the story is told by the main character himself. You can
really see the life of a prisoner in there and the struggle they all go
through. They somehow manage to find things to make them enjoy the time
and eventually get used to the idea of staying inside the prison. They
all learn to become friends but still finds enemies, like the warden
and some of the guards. They are portrayed as the good guys even though
they are prisoners who has committed crimes. You really bond to them
through the screen and can look through their eyes. The ending of this
movie, the first time I saw it, was so unexpected! The way he had spent
so many years to carve a hole in the wall and then escape. And then the
very last scene when they meet each other again on the beach! 10 out of
10!

******
24 July 2013
10
The first time I heard about The Shawshank Redemption was during the
Oscars. They showed probably the worst scene they could (when Andy is
playing the opera music to the prison.) Unfortunately, I never got to
see Shawshank in the theaters. I saw it on VHS and instantly fell in
love with the movie. The story made me want it to go on forever. I
rented the movie five times before finally buying it on VHS. I cannot
recommend this movie any higher. Since I saw it the first time in 1995,
no movie has approached it. Frank Darabont directed a brilliant movie
and made me a fan of his movies. For a story about two men in prison,
it definitely surprised me. The story will keep you hoping to find the
truth and sticking around to find out how it all will end. Hope you
enjoy the show!

******
24 July 2013
10
This film is on my list of all time favorites. It has an awesome
message. This film has so much depth and growth that its like a great
page turner that you don't want to put down.Director Frank Darabont was out did himself in this film. He gave the
viewer just the right amount of every aspect of drama, excitement and
suspense to keep you on the edge of your seat wanting more. He gave
such a detailed depiction of prison life in a way that has never been
seen on screen but yet gave us a sense of compassion for prisoners as
well.Tim Robbins gave a very phenomenal performance from start to finish. He
was the guy you just always wanted to route for. His performance was
great throughout the film . Robbins played Andy Dufresne who was
convicted of a crime and is sentenced to prison. He has to learn to
adapt to a whole new life. He be-friends an African American man named
Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding played by Morgan Freeman. Red is feels as if
he has no hope of ever being anything more than an inmate and is
content with that. Red feels that the only way to survive is to become
still to the world and try not to become institutionalized. Throughout
the years Red watches his friend Andy go through a lot of things and
change. Along with their good friend Brooks Halten played by James
Whitmore who gave an awesome performance as well. The three experience
prison life together but in different ways. Over all the
cinematography, the directing and the performances were EXCELLENT! If you've never seen this film it is a definite must see. You will love
it and I bet it will be on your list of all time favorites as well. I
give this film a excellent rating because it has all the makings of a
great film and delivers just that. It was a GREAT FILM all around!

******
23 July 2013
10
It is hope that allows the self-proclaimed innocent man to survive what
may or may not be an unjust imprisonment. And hope is his gift to his
friend Red, who no longer even tries to impress the parole board at his
hearings. He's become "institutionalized," he explains to Andy, and
would be a "nobody" on the outside.Red's gift to Andy is absolution when he finally confesses his true
sins. Whether or not he pulled the trigger, Andy blames himself for
causing his wife's death; his redemption comes as he learns to give of
himself over the course of this marvelously acted and directed film.Robbins gives a performance that evolves with beautiful clarity from
starchy banker to warm and loving friend. Freeman is sure to gain his
third Oscar nomination for his portrayal of Red. He also reads the
film's lovely narration, much of it drawn verbatim from King's 1982
novella.A detailed portrait of the routine of cell block life, "The Shawshank
Redemption" might change a few minds about the usefulness of
incarceration in terms of rehabilitation. Mostly, though, it reminds us
of that we all hold the keys to our own prisons.

******
23 July 2013
10
As English is not my native tongue, it is a bit hard to grasp what does
'Redemption' means in Shawshank's Redemption. In my understanding, a
prisoned is helpless, who can he save?It is even more confusing that Shawshank is an innocent guy. Surely the
word 'revenge' will be more appropriate to replace 'redemption' in this
context. As the film unfold, it becomes clear to me that Shawshank
redeemed himself and others as he wasn't hateful. He calmly accept the
unfairness in his life and dealt it with dignity and resilience. Some
time, we are caged in a prison that's created by ourself. We often cry
out 'it is unfair!' or 'It is not just!' But how often do we actually
take any actions against them? Do we have the confidence that one day the prison wall will eventually
get through by a small tool? Can we calmly deal with the pressure and
threat that consume us mentally and physically? Are we ready to craw
through a gutter that's full of sh*t to reclaim our entitled freedom?When we in despair, it is encouraging to reflect on this fictional guy
- Shawshank. Life some time is not about revenging, it is about
redeeming. It is easier to revenge, but cooler to redeem.

******
23 July 2013
10
A very simple movie depicting prison life in its very best way. Makes
us realize about how common intelligence and decency inside us can do
wonders in the outside world. An uncommon thriller laced with humor, twists, and above all,
soulfulness. The climax being exceptional and scripted beautifully
leaves you completely mesmerized. The movie has it's own pace and
strength and reveals the true spirit of life.The character roles amazingly played by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman
take the movie to a whole new level. The dialogues are absolutely
meaningful and are strongly relatable to our lives. The feelings of a
prisoner are greatly expressed which are bound to impress the viewers!Probably the best redemption movie till date! A must watch!

******
22 July 2013
9
After years of hearing people praise this film, and occasionally
catching snippets of it on TV, I made a point of renting the film.The Shawshank Redemption comes from a Stephen King story and has
elements that might remind one of Stalag 17 or Cool Hand Luke. But this
movie is an original gem. It is a tribute to man's indomitable spirit.
And it shows the importance of hope--even in the lives of men who have
been institutionalized by an uncaring society via the prison system.Two things that make this film greater than others in the genre are:1. A villain that personifies evil so completely. The warden is made
more villainous by his avowed dedication to Christian principles.2. The excellent screenplay creates "mini-mysteries" throughout by
allowing the viewer to consider what happens at certain times, then
revealing the unexpected truths. This engages the audience, and creates
twists that entertain.This film deserves the hype it gets.

******
21 July 2013
9
Personal, I like this movie. It had a lot of great actors that I look
up to and the story line was very good to follow. It's funny to know
that it is based on a true story.I wasn't even born when this movie came out. I seen it years later.
This movie and a million others like I have seen.The older the movie, makes me want to see it more. I feel that these
movie are a good learning tool for me as an actor. Makes me feel good to know that I have something to look for.Funny thing I even watch Morgan Freeman in the show "Through the
Wormhole with Morgan Freeman". I love that show. He is a great actor.And Tim Robbins, love him in "Howard the Duck" again I wasn't even born
when that one came out either. My mom made a great effort to get the
good movie that were fun to watch for me, because I love comedy. Now, that was a really good movie!!!

******
15 July 2013
9
This was the best film I've ever seen! Frenetic acting. Frenetic role.
Frenetic directing. Awesome places. Good cinema. Good movie. Fantastic
story. Fantastic music. Fantasticc backgrounds.This was the best film
I've ever seen! Frenetic acting. Frenetic role. Frenetic directing.
Awesome places. Good cinema. Good movie. Fantastic story. Fantastic
music. Fantasticc backgrounds.This was the best film I've ever seen!
Frenetic acting. Frenetic role. Frenetic directing. Awesome places.
Good cinema. Good movie. Fantastic story. Fantastic music. Fantasticc
backgrounds.This was the best film I've ever seen! Frenetic acting.
Frenetic role. Frenetic directing. Awesome places. Good cinema. Good
movie. Fantastic story. Fantastic music. Fantasticc backgrounds.This
was the best film I've ever seen! Frenetic acting. Frenetic role.
Frenetic directing. Awesome places. Good cinema. Good movie. Fantastic
story. Fantastic music. Fantasticc backgrounds.This was the best film
I've ever seen! Frenetic acting. Frenetic role. Frenetic directing.
Awesome places. Good cinema. Good movie. Fantastic story. Fantastic
music. Fantasticc backgrounds.This was the best film I've ever seen!
Frenetic acting. Frenetic role. Frenetic directing. Awesome places.
Good cinema. Good movie. Fantastic story. Fantastic music. Fantasticc
backgrounds.This was the best film I've ever seen! Frenetic acting.
Frenetic role. Frenetic directing. Awesome places. Good cinema. Good
movie. Fantastic story. Fantastic music. Fantasticc backgrounds.This
was the best film I've ever seen! Frenetic acting. Frenetic role.
Frenetic directing. Awesome places. Good cinema. Good movie. Fantastic
story. Fantastic music. Fantasticc backgrounds.This was the best film
I've ever seen! Frenetic acting. Frenetic role. Frenetic directing.
Awesome places. Good cinema. Good movie. Fantastic story. Fantastic
music. Fantasticc backgrounds.This was the best film I've ever seen!
Frenetic acting. Frenetic role. Frenetic directing. Awesome places.
Good cinema. Good movie. Fantastic story. Fantastic music. Fantasticc
backgrounds.

******
13 July 2013
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a magnificent work, in which the drama
takes place in a calm, striking and surprising. Frank Darabont is the
ideal person to adapt the works of Stephen King, manages to tell this
heartwarming and inspirational story, conveying the hope of freedom and
happiness together for the spectator. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman,
two superb actors, who once again showed their worth with this
excellent performance. The soundtrack by Thomas Newman is magnificent.
The end of the film, the way it is prepared, will surprise anyone who
assists and dazzle with boldness and simplicity of this magnificent
drama.

******
12 July 2013
10
IT is one the best movies ever made....The movie starts of slow but the
way the situation is depicted in the movie is just awesome..There are a
lot of movies about prison break but none better than this..Not only
me,everyone who saw this movie will rate it 10 on 10..It is just a
visual delight to the watchers..Seriously characterized and perfectly
directed.. I would request everyone to see this one..It is total use of
the minutes in which the movie starts and ends... I also like the
accent in which the language is being told to the audience.. Clearly
one of my favorite movie.. Wish this kind of movies come along always
so that we the audience can be treated to such delightful experience..

******
11 July 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption is without a question one of the most
brilliant movies I tally e'er seen. Siamese to The Immature Knot in
more respects (and finer than it in most all of them), these two movies
change shown us that Stephen Contender is a original not only of horror
but also of prose that shakes the soul and moves the spunk. The
strategy is mediocre, but Monarch did major things with it in his novel
that are only furthered by the substance, and the acting is so top-rate
it's near scary.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrane, wrongly imprisoned for 20 period for
the slaying of his mate. The story focuses on Andy's relationship with
"Red" Redding (Morgan Citizen, in probably his champion enactment) and
his attempts to escape from Shawshank. Bob Gunton is positively ugly
and frightening as Warder Norton, and there are extraordinary
performances and cameos all around; the most salient one existence Gil
Bellows (new as Goat of Commonwealth McBeal) as Tommy, a feller inmate
of Andy's who suffers under the robust instrument of Norton.If you haven't seen this picture, GO AND Payoff IT NOW. You instrument
not be frustrated. It is positively the top show of the '90's, and one
of my Top 3 of all indication. This flick is a blunder to move the
design, soul, and spirit. 10/10

******
11 July 2013
10
This is with out doubt one of the best film ever made, it shows how the
best of human nature can triumph in the darkest hour. The script is
flawless and the acting is sublime. I've seen it more times than i can
count and it never gets tired. Brilliant! The opening aerial shots of
the prison are a total eye-opener. This is an amazing piece of
architecture, strong and Gothic in design. Immediately, the prison
becomes a character. It casts its shadow over most of the film, its
tall stone walls stretching above every shot. It towers over the men it
contains, blotting out all memories of the outside world. Only Andy
(Robbins) holds onto hope. It's in music, it's in the sandy beaches of
Zihuatanejo; "In here's where you need it most," he says. "You need it
so you don't forget. Forget that there are places in the world that
aren't made out of stone. That there's a - there's a - there's
something inside that's yours, that they can't touch." Red (Morgan
Freeman) doesn't think much of Andy at first, picking "that tall glass
o' milk with the silver spoon up his ass" as the first new fish to
crack. Andy says not a word, and losing his bet, Red resents him for
it. But over time, as the two get to know each other, they quickly
become the best of friends. This again, is one of the film's major
strengths. Many movies are about love, many flicks have a side-kick to
the hero, but Shawshank is the only one I can think of that looks
honestly at the love between two best friends. It seems odd that
Hollywood would skip this relationship time and again, when it's a
feeling that weighs so much into everyone's day to day lives. Perhaps
it's too sentimental to seem conventional, but Shawshank's core
friendship hits all the right notes, and the film is much better for
it. It's the kind of friendship that is honest, truthful and brings you
back to the time in your life when the world was new and you and your
friend owned it and in that sense it makes you think of another classic
"Stand by me" by Stephen King. And it is this friendship and how the
author, scriptwriters, director and cast manage to paint in colors that
ring true to our heart that truly makes this film stand out.

******
11 July 2013
9
"Shawshank redemption",definitely an uplifting among all the 90's but
drowned in the celebrity pool created by the Forest Gump.Every thing in
the movie happens in a prison(Shawshank)directer has given all the
importance to two convicts,Andy and Red(Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman),movie starts with the arrival of Andy at the shawshank as a
convict for killing his wife and children,being a fresh meat at a
prison like shawshank means a lot,Andy has to face a lot of
troubles,enormous pain,emotional trauma during his period of double
life sentence.Andy was even gang raped by a bunch of convicts,there was
nothing in the shawshankthat could hold back Andy from ending his life.Movie now actually
climbs to better energy level and the director(frank) puts a large
amount of energy on Andy,he didn't quit,he stood,stood high with heads
straight.He was totally a stranger among the fellow inmates.Movie now founds a new pace when Red(Morgan) tries to make a relation
with the Andy(Tim),he finally become bonded to Andy.Andy soon became
friends with the rest of the Red's crew,and they formed a group and
sticked together all the time.Andy here is a man of self respect.He
starts a library inside the shawshank,he was a man of talent,soon he
was doing the taxes of jail wardens.All these act make him a hero among
the inmates, he even managed to bring beer'free beer'to the inmates
after a stressful work in scorching sun,now the movie gains some
negative energy,as a jail guardian shoots down an inmate,as he has some
Intel with him that could help Andy,thus the movie goes through a
series of events.Andy make his revenge in a perfect manner,completely
freezing the warden and looting all his illegal money.Besides the viewing experience,"SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION" also has some
social importance,it tries to bring lights on the difficulties of the
prisoners and their life in the prison and the life after their period
of punishment,this can be viewed from the movie as a paroled convict
hang himself in confusion of whats next. Definitely 'shawshank
redemption' is its of a kind movie.A definitely watch one.

******
9 July 2013
10
This movie has remained number 1 on the IMDb Top 250 for several years
now with no sign of slipping. It has beaten the ranks of The Godfather,
Pulp Fiction, The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly and countless others. I
myself have watched this film countless times now yet every time I
thoroughly enjoy it. I have recommend it to many friends and family and
have to this day not had a dissatisfied customer. The Script, Cast,
Direction, Mood, and Execution of this movie are flawless. For anyone
who has bothers to sit and watch this do yourself and favor and find
the time. I am a huge Stephen King fan and for the master of horror
this is easily the best screen adaptation of his work to date and it is
not even of the horror genre. See this movie again and again.

******
9 July 2013
8
This film is excellent in all respects, in fact, this is one of the few
films close to perfection starting from the actors, (The combination of
Morgan Freeman (totally love him as an omniscient narrator who keeps us
informed about the who's who) and Tim Robbins really give life to every
scene visualized cleverly, the great script, based on the novel by
Stephen King (the best novel of it, without doubt), the awesome
soundtrack, excellent editing, everything fits perfectly. It has
definitely the best narrative that leads to entertain and intrigue many
times. What is so awesome about the story? It combines drama, comedy
and thriller. The script is great, because it relates the stories of
various characters during the whole film to reach a surprising ending,
thus captivating the audience at all times. Anyway, Shawshank
Redemption has it all. This film is one of those whose ending I failed
to predict. The ending twist is really genius.

******
9 July 2013
10
Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and
eventual redemption through acts of common decency.Director: Frank Darabont Writers: Stephen King (short story "Rita
Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, Frank Darabont (screenplay) Stars:
Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Bob Gunton | See full cast and crewNominated for 7 Oscars. Another 15 wins & 15 nominations. See more
awards Storyline Andy Dufresne is a young and successful banker whose
life changes drastically when he is convicted and sentenced to life
imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her lover. Set in the
1940's, the film shows how Andy, with the help of his friend Red, the
prison entrepreneur, turns out to be a most unconventional prisoner.
Details Official Sites: Official Facebook Country: USA Language:
English Release Date: 14 October 1994 (USA) See more » Also Known As:
Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption See more » Filming
Locations: Ashland, Ohio, USA See more Box Office Budget: $25,000,000
(estimated) Gross: £2,344,349 (UK) (19 May 1995) See more » Company
Credits Production Co: Castle Rock Entertainment See more » Show
detailed company contact information on IMDbPro » Technical Specs
Runtime: 142 min Sound Mix: Dolby Digital Color: Color (Technicolor)
Aspect Ratio: 1.85 : 1 See full technical specs Did You Know? Trivia
Warden Norton whistles the hymn "Eine fester Burg its unsee Gott", the
English title of which is "A Mighty Fortress is Our God". See more »
Goofs When Red and Andy meet for the first time, an extra is seen
behind each of them. It is the same scene but as the lines were filmed
at different times, the extra is wearing different shirts - one
prisoner shirt the day that Red's lines were shot, and a different
shirt behind Andy the day his lines were filmed. See more QuotesDistrict Attorney: Mr. Dufresne, describe the confrontation you had
with your wife the night that she was murdered. Andy Dufresne: It was
very bitter. She said she was glad I knew, that she hated all the
sneaking around. And she said that she wanted a divorce in Reno. See
more » Crazy Credits The man who cried and was beaten when Andy first
arrived is listed and credited as "Fat Ass" -- the other inmates'
nickname for him. See more » Connections Referenced in Strictly
Background (2007) See more » Soundtracks "Willie and The Hand Jive" by
Johnny Otis Performed by The Johnny Otis Show Courtesy of Capitol
Records Under license from CEMA Special Markets

******
7 July 2013
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a film worth watching. Well-written, well
directed and well shot, this film is entertaining throughout. It's a
real tear-jerker with deep meaning, and is a must-watch for anyone
remotely interested in movies. The only negative is that the story's a
little far-fetched, but it barely affects enjoyment of this film.The plot summary might make The Shawshank Redemption sound a little
boring to the modern-day film fanatic, but it really isn't. It's filled
with dramatic tension and is both depressing and uplifting, which is a
quite rare characteristic for a film to have. This movie is not to be
missed.

******
6 July 2013
10
One of the best movies I have ever seen.Every scene of the movie was a
masterpiece!The role of a prisoner matched perfectly with Morgan
Freeman and hearing his voice through the movie made it the best movie
to see in years.The last scene was my favorite and the most feeling
one!Another scene that I liked was the moment that Morgan Freeman (Red)
went under the tree next to the stones and found the little box with
the money and the card-postal.I recommend you to watch this movie , it
will be one of your favorites.I have watched a variety of movies but I
can easily take this out of the many and tell you that the actors and
the producer made a wonderful job and made one of the best movies ever.

******
5 July 2013
9
There is nothing more beautiful than this movie, except Beautiful
Squidward, He's really BeautifulThere is nothing more beautiful than this movie, except Beautiful
Squidward, He's really BeautifulThere is nothing more beautiful than this movie, except Beautiful
Squidward, He's really BeautifulThere is nothing more beautiful than this movie, except Beautiful
Squidward, He's really BeautifulThere is nothing more beautiful than this movie, except Beautiful
Squidward, He's really BeautifulThere is nothing more beautiful than this movie, except Beautiful
Squidward, He's really Beautiful

******
5 July 2013
10
Shawkshank RedemptionThat name, Shawshank Redemption, has always been around since I was
born. I never really understood why everyone watched and spoke of great
things about that movie until now. After watching Shawshank Redemption,
it really opened my mind to a lot of different things. This movie not
only provided, the drama and crime, but it also provided action and
even a mystery. This movie is about a man who had a successful career
as a banker; however, one day he came home to find out that his wife
was having an affair with him. In anger he decided to pull out a
revolver and fix the problem himself. So later on he is then accused of
first-degree murder and sentenced to two life terms in prison. While in
prison the banker had a series of obstacles he had to overcome,
especially being a rich guy who had everything he wanted to be a
convict who is stripped away from their life. After a few years in
Shawshank Prison, the banker finally began to get acclimated. Later on,
it did not take long for the banker to hear that he may be innocent and
then try to devise a plan to show his innocence that just may or may
not work. The main characters in this film were played as, Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins; thus in my opinion, were outstanding actors
and really portrayed their characters as if it were them living that
life. I believe that the director of this film did a great job in
producing such an awesome movie. This review is actually very hard to
write because there is so many emotions I feel after watching the
movie. How be ever, the movie offered a great deal of implied metaphors
such as when Morgan Freeman uses slang to describe his feelings towards
other inmates which allowed the audience to constantly sit on the edge
of their seat not knowing what might happen next. This movie may not be
your modern era film, but it definitely made an impact on the reality
of life. The director, Frank Darabont, definitely put a lot of emphasis
on how Tim Robbins' character was influenced by others throughout the
movie. Same goes with Morgan Freeman, his character in this movie
impacted a lot of people either in a negative way or even a positive
way. In Shawshank Redemption, I think by the setting taken place in a prison
really presented a more "harsh times" feel to the movie such as sexual
harassment and brutal beatings by guards. Also I really enjoyed how
every little phrase or word, both by an inmate or a guard, stood out
and brought a different meaning to the movie. When you watch this movie
you must pay attention to every little detail. If you don't, then you
will be lost and continue to ask yourself, "What is going on?" That's
just how it is with Shawshank Redemption. In this movie you would think
it would be just your average prison film but it's not. I would
recommend this movie to anyone that is interested in a good
mystery/action and even a drama. This is an outstanding movie and I'm
so glad I watched it because it definitely opened my mind about the
reality of life's struggles.

******
5 July 2013
10
That name, Shawshank Redemption, has always been around since I was
born. I never really understood why everyone watched and spoke of great
things about that movie until now. After watching Shawshank Redemption,
it really opened my mind to a lot of different things. This movie not
only provided, the drama and crime, but it also provided action and
even a mystery. This movie is about a man who had a successful career
as a banker; however, one day he came home to find out that his wife
was having an affair with him. In anger he decided to pull out a
revolver and fix the problem himself. So later on he is then accused of
first-degree murder and sentenced to two life terms in prison. While in
prison the banker had a series of obstacles he had to overcome,
especially being a rich guy who had everything he wanted to be a
convict who is stripped away from their life. After a few years in
Shawshank Prison, the banker finally began to get acclimated. Later on,
it did not take long for the banker to hear that he may be innocent and
then try to devise a plan to show his innocence that just may or may
not work. The main characters in this film were played as, Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins; thus in my opinion, were outstanding actors
and really portrayed their characters as if it were them living that
life. I believe that the director of this film did a great job in
producing such an awesome movie. This review is actually very hard to
write because there is so many emotions I feel after watching the
movie. How be ever, the movie offered a great deal of implied metaphors
such as when Morgan Freeman uses slang to describe his feelings towards
other inmates which allowed the audience to constantly sit on the edge
of their seat not knowing what might happen next. This movie may not be
your modern era film, but it definitely made an impact on the reality
of life. The director, Frank Darabont, definitely put a lot of emphasis
on how Tim Robbins' character was influenced by others throughout the
movie. Same goes with Morgan Freeman, his character in this movie
impacted a lot of people either in a negative way or even a positive
way. In Shawshank Redemption, I think by the setting taken place in a prison
really presented a more "harsh times" feel to the movie such as sexual
harassment and brutal beatings by guards. Also I really enjoyed how
every little phrase or word, both by an inmate or a guard, stood out
and brought a different meaning to the movie. When you watch this movie
you must pay attention to every little detail. If you don't, then you
will be lost and continue to ask yourself, "What is going on?" That's
just how it is with Shawshank Redemption. In this movie you would think
it would be just your average prison film but it's not. I would
recommend this movie to anyone that is interested in a good
mystery/action and even a drama. This is an outstanding movie and I'm
so glad I watched it because it definitely opened my mind about the
reality of life's struggles.

******
5 July 2013
10
THIS MOVIE IS THE BEST OF ITS KIND that I remember. This movie had me
thinking and trying to figure it out through most of the movie. Its
surprising, humorous, sad, dis/encouraging, and all worth the wait. If
you like a MAKE YOU FEEL GOOD MOVIE thats down to earth, then
Definitely watch The Shawshank Redemption. It takes you through all
emotions possible without being too harsh. This movie is great Alone
and with Others EQUALLY. If you feel down, discouraged, or bored, then
put this on IMMEDIATELY. The Shawshank Redemption is witty,
unpredictable, informative, inspirational, Shocking but also A true
depiction of past circumstances for the most part.

******
5 July 2013
10
I wondered why everyone like this movie, whats so best about this
movie? i watched it for more than a dozen of times and still i don't
know whats so best about this movie. every time i watch this master
piece, i wait patiently like lead actor in this movie with same
excitement, thrill and eager to know whats going on at the end of movie
,same result of course but with the increased love and passion towards
this movie. characters are all criminals but they (specially Tim
Robbins and Morgan freeman ) are my idol already and for so many years
to come. they teach you to learn , to be patient , and to hit while
time is there. this is one of the most inspiring movie i ever
watched........

******
4 July 2013
10
Now writing a review to read for around 1 million viewers who have
already watched the movie may sound foolish. But since I am on a big
mood swing of excitement, I am writing it. Some movies never get old.
Some reasons are no use of technology, never fading human feelings,
universally accepted ground concepts, etc. So, maybe because of these
reasons, The Shawshank Redemption seems to have found its way to the
Top Alltime 250 Movies in this website. Overall, the movie made my day.
In fact it made my whole year. The main actor of the movie is no less
than any super hero. Also you ought to believe that these kind of
people, these kind of incidents do happen in the real world. Although
may not with these kind of drama. But, you can say, they do. I really
regret that this movie did not earn much during its initial time of
release. A Straight sweep Full 10.

******
3 July 2013
10
Movie is Excellent. Thrilling to watch. I like Morgan Freeman narration
and his acting. He is genius.The story is slow to develop, and younger kids and children sensitive
to the suffering of others may find this world a difficult one to sit
with for the film's duration.If Andy were to have a retrial, he could expose the warden and bring
down his mini empire. When Andy is told what the warden did, he breaks
emotionally, the first time he does so after serving half his life in
prison.Andy is the minister of the healing power of hope. He educates the
inmates on the healing power of Mozart. Andy has not only been doing
the warden's taxes but also doctoring his books to hide money he is
illicitly collecting for labor the inmates are doing in the local
community.

******
30 June 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption was originally released in 1994 and at the
time it didn't receive its worthy praise, its due credit for being
without any doubt one of the finest movies ever made, a gargantuan
picture. It felt considered to be truly great, yet nothing quite
remarkable, why is that? Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction are majorly
responsible. Also though when you're watching The Shawshank Redemption
for the first time you might take notice of how fanciful it is,
seemingly sugarcoated, and may tend to initially and foolishly discount
it as being a soft misrepresentation of life in Shawshank, but as the
movie perseveres through gruesome incidents and never shows a single
imperfection, never seizes to amaze, it gradually becomes clear that
this is a powerhouse of a movie, an undisputed masterpiece, and it's
not a distorted viewpoint, it's just lighthearted and viewer-friendly,
and you may be required to reassess your feelings towards the film to
be valued as one of the very best movies of all-time. The Shawshank
Redemption is remarkable. It's one of the very few films that succeeds
and even excels at depicting life on the brighter side while still
maintaining enough darkly despair in proper prism. Prison isn't a fairy
tale world. The Shawshank Redemption doesn't downgrade itself with a
too grimy depiction; it's shown in a more pleasant way, in a more
powerful way, and it's better this way, with no overstated unsavory
trauma. The Shawshank Redemption is loaded with unsavory trauma, it
just doesn't dwell on it. It ditches a grim outlook and upholds a
faithful perspective. The Shawshank Redemption inspires great hope,
even when your spirit has fallen into the darkest of places. Andy
Dufresne is one of the best characters from film, period. Andy's
unassuming, soft-spoken and distant nature makes him a prime target to
befall victim to the hideous injustice of an ill-fated murder charge,
but Andy is a brave soul, and he will seek redemption, even though
Andy's very own soul is in most need of it. Andy's unfulfilled life has
found new meaning in the most unlikely place, Shawshank. The story is
among the best ever told. I venture to say that the narration provided
by Red is the best, the very best of any movie. The narration doesn't
compel you with startling plot developments, rather it guides you with
reflection and comforts you throughout the indelicacies of the film.
The narration is the driving force and the lasting impression of the
movie. The Shawshank Redemption is mega engrossing; you do not quite
know where it's heading, but you do not care because it is so good, and
where it does eventually land is sheer brilliance, true movie magic.
The end is simply genius, a clear metaphor for passing through
hardship. I love that Red makes it to the good life too with Andy; this
movie would have lost all of its might if not for its beautiful, happy
ending. The Shawshank Redemption is one of those rare dramatic
masterpieces as it's right up there on the short list of being the
greatest movie of all-time. Give it its due. (Hummmmmmmmmmm...the #1
movie on the IMDb Top 250...that'll do.)

******
30 June 2013
9
It's a masterpiece film that will have a value all the times. Some
critics think after years of adulation and promotions from fans, that
Shawshank Redemption has gotten overrated. In my opinion, I think they
are wrong. Never have I been so moved by film. Its intriguing without
being vague, intellectual without being conceited, long without ever
losing pace but most of all what all art should be inspiring. I left
feeling emotionally enlightened, enriched and equally drained.
Breathtaking. The score was composed by Thomas Newman was stunning. The
main theme ("End Titles" on the soundtrack album) is perhaps best known
to modern audiences as the inspirational sounding music from many movie
trailers dealing with inspirational, dramatic, or romantic films.
Shawshank Redemption is like wine I guess, the older it becomes the
better it becomes, really bizarre how it didn't appeal much at the time
1994, it was pretty hard to beat Forrest Gump, and Pulp Fiction that
year. It end up having a cult following, after years and years of being
aired on cable television to the point. A lot amount of people have
finally view it, and most of the time share the same opinion, it was
great. You have two hours to dig into the story - and I can tell you it
was worth it. Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption, the film directed by Frank Darabont tells the
story of Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), a banker who is sent to Shawshank
State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his
claims of innocence. During his time at the prison, he befriends a
fellow inmate, Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), and finds
himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him in
his money laundering operation. It wasn't until he meets Tommy Williams
(Gil Bellows) does he heard that another inmate at another prison
claimed responsibility for an identical murder, suggesting Andy's
innocence. It was here that Andy makes a choice, continue to live with
the sins in prison, or clean himself up by escaping it. The film wasn't
about a grand scheme of plot. It was unusual in the sense that it
didn't matter what happens, but only that the message is fulfilled:
Fear can set you prisoner, hope can set you free. And it did fulfill
it. Brilliantly. It is the script and the actors that make this movie
so great. Morgan Freeman as Red is the highlight of the film. Before
Freeman was cast, Clint Eastwood, Harrison Ford, Paul Newman, and
Robert Redford were each considered for the role. Although the part was
described as written as a middle-aged Irishman with graying red hair,
Darabont cast Freeman for his authoritative presence and demeanor.
Morgan Freeman is an amazing actor and his narrationing voice is so
soothing. While I do like the narrations. Narration in films are always
a sign of weakness in the story and plot. It is always used to cover up
holes in the story; unless it conveys the protagonist's inner feelings
and thought. Here, it conveys Red who is basically telling us what we
are witnessing on the screen. While, I do like it, it wasn't really
needed. The acting of Tim Robbins was great as well. I love the scene
where he play a recording of Mozart's The Marriage of Figaro on the
loudspeaker. Still, in some scenes, he's too wooden and stiff.
Furthermore, he mumbles too much. Both, Tom Hanks and Kevin Costner
turn down the role, two actors I do like. I also love Bob Gunton as the
Warden, but I really wanted James Crowell as the Warden. I thought it
would be amazing to have him in this film. There are some many themes
and messages, it's hard to count. The biggest one is the fundamental
pillars of human life: hope. Some critics do have a problem with the
film in some areas like attempts to persuade the viewer to side with
rapists, thieves, and murderers. It didn't help that 2007, two inmates
of Union County Prison escaped from their prison using similar
techniques to those featured in the movie. I think the biggest fault,
is that white collar crime pays if you are slick. While Andy was
innocent of the murders, he wasn't innocent in white collar crimes.
Another thing that some critics nitpick is the deep emotional
relationship between two men. I don't see anything wrong with it,
thinking it as two men being friends. Some people say it's a homosexual
relationship since in prison, homosexuality is normalized. This is
clear throughout the film, not only through the characters of the
sisters gang, but how inmates' referral to new arrivals as "fresh
fish." There was also a lot of homosexual symbolism like the Rita
Hayworth poster covering up something and how the sewer scene was a
symbol for anal sex. If that's isn't weird enough, some critics have
spotted many allegorical themes in the film, generally along the lines
that Andy Dufresne is a latter day Jesus Christ. No matter what people
see in it; even with some prison film clichés, it still a great film. I
do like the 1963's 'Great Escape" references with the socks. I don't
want to spoil anything, but all I can say is, "I'm glad I took the time
to watch this movie". Overall you build an understanding and feel for
the characters, was real sad when certain characters died, really gets
to you. The whole concept was smart, it just shocks how it was all put
together and it works so well. Brilliant movie. Recommend anyone to
watch it at least once in their life time. Don't take my word for it.
Just watch it. So Get busy living or Get busy dying.

******
27 June 2013
10
This is hands down one of the best movies ever made if not THE BEST. If
this movie is not in your top 5 of all time then you just plain do not
like good movies. Each characters role is played/acted well, the
writing is brilliant, the beginning through the end is just awesome. A
long movie but one of those movies like gladiator or a classic mob
movie that is really long but you don't notice and by the end is
certainly not considered a waste of time. I have always thought that
cable should have its own The Shawshank Redemption station where you
can tune in at any time and it will be on. At no point in this review
am I exaggerating and I think this movie deserves all the praise that
it receives and then some. Some of the scenes especially the graphic
ones (rape) really make you feel emotion while watching and thats
definitely something lacking in newer movies and something we could
definitely use more of

******
27 June 2013
10
One of my all time favorite movies that I could watch over and over. I
loved the role of Tim Robbins character and of Morgan Freeman as well.
I have not seen the movie in years and I think it is just about time to
watch it and relive all the greatness of the movie from what I
remembered from the first time. It was amazing to see a movie that was
written and acted out so well. Also sad to see someone spend so much
time in prison as there 2 characters had. There are so many great
movies that Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman each were in and this by far
has to be there best work of all. This is definitely a must see movie.
So if you have not seen this movie add this to your watchlist of all
time great movies that you must see.

******
27 June 2013
10
Rate: 9.7/10 Rounded to 10The Shawshank Redemption is easily the greatest movie of all time. Not
many movies can compete with the greatness of this film. To start, the
movie is based off a great book by a great writer. The Stephen King
novel makes the perfect story for a movie. Next, the acting is great,
it features two great actors: Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, who
together form an amazing team. Finally, Frank Darabont did a great job
directing this film. To sum it all up, this is a great movie. If you
haven't seen it... WATCH IT! I bet you'll like it.Was this review helpful? If so, check out my other reviews. Or, visit
my website for more: www.tmb2k.com

******
27 June 2013
10
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
26 June 2013
9
Please watch this movie, as I will watch. out of topic Gru is recruited
by the Anti-Villain League to help deal with a powerful new super crt's
not often that a hit animated film's sequel surpasses the original
film. Despicable Me 2 is one of those rare cases. From the moment it
appears on the screen to the end of the film, Despicable Me 2 is a fast
paced, fun film that never ceases to be entertaining.This film has you laughing quite often, contains humour that both kids
and adults can appreciate, and had at least one moment that was worthy
of clapping out loud to.The character development is to be praised, as is the warmth and soul
that Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud put into this film.This film leaves you feeling joyful and satisfied and happy for the
characters and the new direction their lives are taking.This film is not to be missed and I can't recommend it enoughiminal.

******
26 June 2013
10
An amazing movie, a real must see! Incredible storyline and outstanding
acting! Testament to the human spirit and what else? A story about hope
and dreams and one whose emotional impact is as great as the sky is
blue. One of the best movies made during the 90s and definitely one of
the top prison movies of all-time. A simple story elegantly, cleverly
told, not to mention the magnificent scenery. There is a lot of life
and humor in it. There is even excitement and suspense, although not
when we expect it. But mostly the film is an allegory about holding
onto a sense of personal worth, despite everything. The ratings of
close to 1 million users prove it!

******
25 June 2013
8
Parents need to know that this movie is rated R for a reason: The
gritty world of Shawshank Prison is populated with sadistic guards, a
corrupt warden, and predatory fellow inmates. Two characters have sex
(their clothes are on, and it's not graphic), one lovable character
hangs himself, guards shoot an inmate and frame it as an escape
attempt, inmates attempt and, we are told, succeed in raping Andy, and
guards beat and kill an inmate in the opening scenes. But the film also
shows inmates forming a loving community of friendship and support
despite oppressive conditions.In THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted
for the murder of his wife and her lover, and sent to prison. It's
1949, and Andy doesn't have the stuff for prison life. Andy befriends
"Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman) and uses his past as a banker to get a
job in the prison library. But things unravel. In doing the books for
the warden, he learns that the prison boss is taking bribes, and Andy
is to launder them. A lovable former inmate hangs himself when he gets
to the outside after decades behind bars and can't adjust. The inmate
whom Andy helps get his GED is shot by the guards to keep him quiet
about information that might prove Andy is innocent of the murders and
set him free. Andy spends two months in solitary. After he gets out, he
seems depressed and Red worries he'll kill himself. The next day, Andy
isn't dead, but he isn't there, either. He's escaped. The rest is a
perfect Stephen King happy ending, complete with come-uppance for the
corrupt warden.Families can talk about the ways oppressed people have kept their
spirit historically -- for example, through spirituals created by
slaves. How do Andy and Red handle prison differently? How would you
handle such a bleak future? Why did Brooks feel more comfortable in
prison than out of prison? Why did Andy get Red a harmonica? What did
that represent? Why did Red and Andy disagree on whether they should
have hope for a better life? Did their class and race affect their
approach?

******
24 June 2013
10
excellent is all u can say heart wrenching touch brave bold what great
iconic movie.excellent is all u can say heart wrenching touch brave
bold what great iconic movie.excellent is all u can say heart wrenching
touch brave bold what great iconic movie.excellent is all u can say
heart wrenching touch brave bold what great iconic movie.excellent is
all u can say heart wrenching touch brave bold what great iconic
movie.excellent is all u can say heart wrenching touch brave bold what
great iconic movie.excellent is all u can say heart wrenching touch
brave bold what greatexcellent is all u can say heart wrenching touch
brave bold what great iconic movie.excellent is all u can say heart
wrenching touch brave bold what greatexcellent is all u can say heart
wrenching touch brave bold what great iconic movie.excellent is all u
can say heart wrenching touch brave bold what great iconic
movie.excellent is all u can say heart wrenching touch brave bold what
greatexcellent is all u can say heart wrenching touch brave bold what
great iconic movie. iconic movie. iconic movie. iconic movie.

******
24 June 2013
9
A social misfit by nature,Andy on the outside of Shawshank prison was
kind of a classic loner.But with Red,he fit right in at
Shawshank.Breaks rules with few of his good friends.Never hurt nobody
and quite in fact help everybody in the prison including the corrupt
warden.His love for music is just majestic.And so there was,Andy
Dufresne ended up in Shawshank Prison for a crime he did not commit and
the Warden wants to keep him there for life.Inside those walls,people
changes and it's funny as Red describes.At first,just after you got
in,you want to be outside.But as you move on,they were growing on
them.Brooks,who spent more than 50 years inside those walls,when he got
out,he saw the world changed from when he got inside.So many changes
that he felt leaving this world would be easier than to live in a world
you don't understand.But hope is a very good thing.

******
23 June 2013
9
The #1 rating on IMDb.com's top 250 is no mistake. It was one of those
movies where you feel exhausted at the end. Morgan Freeman was mind-
blowingly authentic in playing Red and was made for the part. The plot was well thought out, and the escape by Andy was surprising
even as a viewer. And the last 20 minutes are the best of any movie I've ever seen. It
didn't leave you in tears of sadness or happiness, just a fantastic
sense of closure. The acting was terrific and a spectacular way to use 2+ hours. Highly
recommended and in my Top 10, easily.

******
22 June 2013
9
The way portrait of the characters on the screen was very good. even
though the carried a little bit melancholy mood but at the ending of
the film you 'll get a feeling of watching an excellent movie.I have
never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption.
Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams. And
what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you
hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters and the
viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what
the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

******
17 June 2013
9
There are so many movies take you by the heart, this one separates
itself from the pack by having the special ability of moving you by
showing that everyone's life is bitter whoever you are and whatever you
do.The cooperation between Frank Darabont and Stephen "the master of
terror" King is very welcome at every angle in every title they work
together and The Shawshank Redemption is the peak of this
collaboration. The story is the classical friendship in the most
unexpected places with bitter twists found in most Stephen King
stories. And the images and the camera angles are carefully and
successfully designed and executed.The movie takes you in for 2 hours and 22 minutes of a ride in time and
senses.

******
15 June 2013
10
What does this film, and why, in fact, I'm wondering in the first place
this issue? Probably because the main idea of ​​what to look for and
morality that the film brings to your mind, if it is of course possible
- this is the most interesting. Moreover, you understood the book /
film - is a kind of specific experience in the treasury of his own
thoughts and knowledge.I read Stephen King's "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption." Not
surprisingly, the book, however, as always, the better the movie. But
Frank Darabont took unmatched movie that could play King wrote in his
book, and in this film is definitely a plus.So what, exactly, teaches "The Shawshank Redemption"?Andy Dyufreyn for as much as twenty years, has lost none of its force
of will, ruthlessly, albeit slowly, breaking free, with it in secret.Frantic zeal for freedom. Why would it not be worth it. He lost twenty
years of his life, because his wife, along with her lover killed by
another person. And is it fair?The warden continuously urged Andy to believe in the Bible. Called,
until one glorious day it has not broke big check, and the place of its
documents and reports that Andy was doing, he found that same Bible,
and a note from Dyufreyna himself. Hopelessness, a setup? Not at all,
my friends. Andy just gutted out the truth, bringing his tormentor took
his own life.And here it is, the same will, the life! Twenty years, he has only seen
her in a dream!The very desirable house on the ocean near the Mexican land, a loyal
friend, a little later freed Andy Dyufreyna, a small boat and
hamburgers from a roadside cafe. He could not. He did it.Freedom of the most expensive.

******
13 June 2013
9
I simply love this movie, it just connects to you. Makes you feel like
you lived it yourself! With a reason on top of the list. Just a hearth
warming story that gives you chills at moments. An really epic movie.
If you want the full experience read the book also. Steven King is a
master and a true artist! Just few movie remakes of the book are really
good and this is one of them. An experience that can't be matched with
with just watching the movie or reading just the book. The combination
of dose two is one of the greatest things that you can do for the
seventh art! I hope you enjoy my review and the movie. And i need to
writhe a filler line because i miss 1 line of text so i can post this
review.

******
13 June 2013
9
Very well done movie although I don't think it's as good as everybody
says... One of the better movies I have watched and it is absolutely
worth looking at it, no doubt! Unfortunately I don't like it so much
anymore. That can depend on the amount of times I have watched it over
the years at school etc. and it has gradually become a little more
boring and I don't enjoy it as other movies like Batman. As a Tarantino
fan I like more brutality in movies than drama. The actors, story and
the quotes in the movie is a big plus though! If you like movies or
TV-series that is inside a prison I strongly recommend the TV-series
"Prison Break". Well, back to the topic. The Shawshank Redemption is a
movie that is worth watching. If you haven't seen it before it will be
a very good movie to watch with your family or friends. As I said
earlier I don't like it that much these days but it feels more like
it's not really my cup of tea... I give it a 9 out of 10, fare and
square. /Andreas Flink

******
11 June 2013
10
I was so impressed with how every single subplot was given a great deal
of respect and attention from the director. The acting was world-class.
I have never seen Tim Robbins act as well since, Morgan Freeman maybe
(e.g. Seven). The twists were unexpected, an although this film had a
familiar feel, it wasn't even slightly pretentious or clichéd, it was
original. The cinematography was grand and expressive. It gave a real
impression of the sheer magnitude of this daunting prison.But the one
thing which makes this story stand above all other films, is the
attention given to the story. The film depends on the story and the way
in which it unravels. It's a powerful, poignant, thought-provoking,
challenging film like no other.One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving
story about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate
with everyone giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman carry the movie, but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as
the Warden Norton and prison guard captain Hadley respectively. And
James Whitmore's portrayal of an elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The
screenplay gives almost every actor at least one or more memorable
lines through out the film. As well as a very surprising "twist" near
the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If you have not seen
this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll want to see
this one more than once.

******
11 June 2013
8
An amazing movie about human nature & real friendship. Hope can be
found in the darkest of times. I completely agree that this is the
leader of the list.Good camera quality, good work of the actors involved. It is delight to
watch the interaction between the actors adding to the magic of the
costumes and surroundings. Every frame takes you into the world and
story without deviating from the red thread of the story arc.To some the movie might be a bit too long. The plot leaves you with a
good and genuine feeling of having watched one of Hollywood's best &
brightest at work.

******
11 June 2013
9
After watching this movie I couldn't find a specific word to describe
what I was feeling and what I was thinking, the closest word that I
could get was 'amazed'. Every scene of the movie brings up one
different feeling, and I think that this is why I liked this movie this
much. The dialogs, the actors, the scenario, everything on this movie
goes directly to your mind in such a way that it makes you feel tied to
the movie and you just can't stop watching it. All the aspects of the
movie are great, and that is what makes the movie even better. When I
watched this movie, I was paying attention to the screenplay, and in
the end of the movie I was delighted with the screenplay. The writer
did such an amazing job and built this awesome and unique story about
prison. I strongly encourage you to watch this movie because its very
hard to get the entire picture of the movie by only reading this
review.

******
9 June 2013
10
Before we can critically assess The Shawshank Redemption, we first have
to deal with The Shawshank Reputation. In addition to its Oscar
nominations and huge critical acclaim, the film has topped the IMDb Top
250 for years and shows no signs of dropping off any time soon. Any
attempt to criticize it could come across as churlish or contraries,
the work of someone attempting to be above what is popular for their
own self-righteous sake. Fortunately, there is little need to criticize
- for Shawshank really is as great as people make it out to be.It's easy to forget how much of a slow-burning success Shawshank was.
Despite favorable reviews and its many nominations, the film barely
broke even on first release. It was only with the VHS release that word
began to spread like wildfire, so that by the turn of the century it
had garnered a reputation as a modern American great. In an age where
films are dead in the water if they don't perform on opening weekend,
it is hard to imagine a situation in which another Shawshank could
emerge (although Slumdog Millionaire is a reasonable candidate).It's equally easy to forget how brutal the film is, particularly in its
first 20 minutes. Shawshank's reputation as a popular favorite might
lead the uninitiated to thinking that it's an uplifting, feel-good film
- and it is true that these later moments are the ones which have most
entered into popular consciousness. But any film about hope needs a
source of despair to provide conflict, and Shawshank has more than
enough violence and emotional trauma to justify its 15 certificate. As
Mark Kermode famously remarked, there's a whole lot of Shawshank before
the Redemption.Even without its reputation, Shawshank is one of the best adaptations
of Stephen King's work. Indeed, among King's dramatic stories, it is
outshone only by its successor The Green Mile. Frank Darabont has a
greater understanding of King than almost any other filmmaker: he gets
the tone spot on and recreates the period setting brilliantly with the
help of Roger Deakins' cinematography. Despite the much-parodied
narration that punctuates the film, the drama unfolds naturally and
believably throughout, with the characters always being at the
forefront and naked exposition being kept to a bare minimum.Shawshank is a good example of how adaptation works - or more
specifically, how changes made to the original story in translation
often benefit the finished product. The best example of this is the
character of Red, who in the original novel is a red-headed Irishman.
This is referred to jokingly by Morgan Freeman in one of his first
conversations with Tim Robbins; when Andy asks why people call him Red,
Red responds: "Maybe it's because I'm Irish.".On top of Freeman's obvious ability, the casting decision makes sense
because it adds an extra layer of meaning to the character. Red is one
of the few black characters we come across; while he applies himself in
different ways, he is as much of an outsider as Andy DuFresne. This is
borne out by his remarks about institutionalization, which are laughed
off by his fellow inmates. Red may be well-connected when it comes to
smuggling things in, but otherwise he is just as lonely as Andy.Shawshank approaches the theme of institutionalization with great grace
and dexterity. Because the story takes place over three decades, the
temptation would be to canter through the plot points and cut straight
to Andy's escape - you could even stage the entire story in flashback.
Instead, Darabont allows the film to unfold at a gentle, gradual pace,
reflecting the mind-set of the characters. They don't realize how
trapped they are until it's too late, just as we don't realize that
two- and-a-half hours has passed until the credits have begun to roll.Shawshank is perhaps the most powerful depiction of hope in all of
cinema. The original short story, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption, was subtitled 'Hope Springs Eternal'. The film returns to
hope and the celebration of the human spirit like a leitmotif, and
succeeds because it retains Andy's humanity in all its many shades.
While he is very different to the other prisoners, he is never
presented as a saint or goody-goody, smiling gormless in the face of
maddening torment. This makes his endurance all the more powerful: we
recognize our faults in his moments of weakness, and aspire to his
inner moral strength.The only fly in the ointment with Shawshank is its ending. The film is
about hope as a value in and of itself, emphasizing the importance of
having it even if it is not rewarded. Red's transition to embracing
hope is far more important than his reunion with Andy, and this reunion
shifts the film's message from celebrating hope to justifying the
characters' pain on the basis of a happy ending. It's also clear that
this ending was put together at the last minute, with subtle shifts in
the cinematography and a far more rushed pacing to it.The Shawshank Redemption may not be entirely worthy of its number one
ranking on IMDb, but it remains a really terrific piece of drama let
down only by its final scene. In every other aspect it's a masterpiece,
as a character piece, a treatise on hope and a beautifully paced and
mounted Stephen King adaptation. It remains a must-see for all film
fans of penchant or persuasion, earning its status as a modern classic
and securing a warm place in our hearts.

******
8 June 2013
9
loved the story the actors the emotions the drama Why do I want to
write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I am not sure -
almost everything that could be possibly said about it has been said.
But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was and am
profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope and
friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
8 June 2013
10
Before we can critically assess The Shawshank Redemption, we first have
to deal with The Shawshank Reputation. In addition to its Oscar
nominations and huge critical acclaim, the film has topped the IMDb Top
250 for years and shows no signs of dropping off any time soon. Any
attempt to criticize it could come across as churlish or contraries,
the work of someone attempting to be above what is popular for their
own self-righteous sake. Fortunately, there is little need to criticize
- for Shawshank really is as great as people make it out to be.It's easy to forget how much of a slow-burning success Shawshank was.
Despite favorable reviews and its many nominations, the film barely
broke even on first release. It was only with the VHS release that word
began to spread like wildfire, so that by the turn of the century it
had garnered a reputation as a modern American great. In an age where
films are dead in the water if they don't perform on opening weekend,
it is hard to imagine a situation in which another Shawshank could
emerge (although Slumdog Millionaire is a reasonable candidate).It's equally easy to forget how brutal the film is, particularly in its
first 20 minutes. Shawshank's reputation as a popular favorite might
lead the uninitiated to thinking that it's an uplifting, feel-good film
- and it is true that these later moments are the ones which have most
entered into popular consciousness. But any film about hope needs a
source of despair to provide conflict, and Shawshank has more than
enough violence and emotional trauma to justify its 15 certificate. As
Mark Kermode famously remarked, there's a whole lot of Shawshank before
the Redemption.Even without its reputation, Shawshank is one of the best adaptations
of Stephen King's work. Indeed, among King's dramatic stories, it is
outshone only by its successor The Green Mile. Frank Darabont has a
greater understanding of King than almost any other filmmaker: he gets
the tone spot on and recreates the period setting brilliantly with the
help of Roger Deakins' cinematography. Despite the much-parodied
narration that punctuates the film, the drama unfolds naturally and
believably throughout, with the characters always being at the
forefront and naked exposition being kept to a bare minimum.The characters reflect the different extents and effects of
institutionalization. Brooks has built his entire identity around his
books and role in the prison; he is so afraid of this being taken away
that he attempts to kill William Sadler's character so he can stay
inside. Red is aware of how trapped he is, and shares Brooks' fears,
being unsure that he could get things for Andy on the outside. But at
the same time, he refuses to let himself be vulnerable, trying to play
the system and constantly getting turned down for parole. Andy allows
himself to be vulnerable and endures all the pain that it brings him,
sustained by the knowledge of his innocence and the hope that he will
escape.Shawshank is perhaps the most powerful depiction of hope in all of
cinema. The original short story, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption, was subtitled 'Hope Springs Eternal'. The film returns to
hope and the celebration of the human spirit like a leitmotif, and
succeeds because it retains Andy's humanity in all its many shades.
While he is very different to the other prisoners, he is never
presented as a saint or goody-goody, smiling formlessly in the face of
maddening torment. This makes his endurance all the more powerful: we
recognize our faults in his moments of weakness, and aspire to his
inner moral strength.The film has attracted many Christian interpretations - in fact, in my
review of John Carpenter's The Thing, I called it "a poster child for
Christianity". It's not hard to see why, considering its celebration of
inner strength and devotion, and its overall arc of good triumph over
evil against the greatest odds. While Andy has been called a Christ
figure, he's just as close to the character of Daniel in the Old
Testament: he finds himself in a strange land against his will, and in
order to survive he applies his natural talents to the service of his
temporal masters. Through his labors the people around him benefit and
the system is eventually changed for the better - albeit through pain,
suffering and several deaths.An equally intriguing interpretation comes from Mark Kermode, who
authored a BFI Modern Classic on the film in 2003. In a video
discussing cinematic depictions of Richard Nixon, Kermode made the
argument that Warden Norton (played brilliantly by Bob Gunton) is an
allegory for Nixon, with Andy's prison term matching Nixon's political
career. Norton begins reaching out for friendship (Nixon seeking to be
elected), then becomes the corrupt leader (beginning in the year that
Kennedy was shot), and finally descends into paranoia and disgrace,
culminating in a more literal suicide than Nixon offered us.Whether you believe these interpretations or not, Shawshank is a
terrific piece of dramatic film-making which soars on the strengths of
its main performers. Tim Robbins perfectly captures Andy's distant,
ethereal quality while retaining his wry and infectious sense of humor.
Morgan Freeman's performance may well be responsible for his subsequent
type-casting, but he matches Robbins beat for beat, offsetting hope
with world-weariness and guilt. There's also great support from two
actors who would subsequently work with Darabont again - William Sadler
(who appears in The Green Mile) and James Whitmore (The Majestic).

******
3 June 2013
9
First let me say that usually I'm not much into drama. But the beauty
of The Shawshank Redemption forced me into watching the whole film four
times over the years.It's the kind of movie that is so powerful and realistic you become
glued to your seat until the end. The twist at the end gave the movie a
perfect finish without affecting the fine gist of the whole movie.
Shawshank Redemption teaches us, improves our feelings about the world
and changes our expectations about 'luck'. It shows us what a movie can
do.Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins deliver their best performance ever. It
did not sweep the board at the Academy Awards, but that was because of
Tom Hank's movie Forrest Gump

******
27 May 2013
10
The shawshank redemption was probably the best film I've ever watched.
Somehow it feels like Forrest Gump. The main character, Andy trying to
keep he life style despite the fact that he was in prison which is a
place of no freedom, no friends.What impressed me is that Andy made Red to get a poster of Rita
Hayworth and he stick it to the wall of his cell. We have been told
repeatedly in most prison movie that a con should has no privacy and
personal belonging, that the jailer will keep destroying everything you
have and make you suffer. But Andy somehow managed to keep the sexy
poster on his wall, made chess out of own time, that is impressive.To be honest, I was shocked because like everyone else I have been
living a life as a slave to the work->eat->sleep->work cycle and just
don't have the gut to take the leap of faith into what is waiting
beyond.I believe like Andy's dream of living next to the Pacific Ocean, which
he made it come true, everyone has a dream of his own and we should try
our best to accomplish them.

******
27 May 2013
10
Up there with the best films of all time, great story line, great
twist, great film from start to finish! The storyline takes you through the prison life of intelligent banker
Andrew Dufresne who even though the crime he has been detained for he
did not commit, remains quiet and takes the life sentence on the chin. Throughout the film he encounters many characters, some who take a
liking to him for the right reasons, and some for the wrong reasons.
But what Andrew is plotting in secret will shock the entire Shawshank
prison, and indeed the audience.With twists and turns at every corner, ups and downs and emotional
drama, Shawshank is undoubtedly one of the best film ever made.

******
23 May 2013
8
I can understand how some people can feel that 'The Shawshank
Redemption' feels underwhelming or bland, compared to other highly
acclaimed movies. I guess having that notion that all classic films
have to be complex, with a bunch of overarching themes can influence
one's perceptions of what is supposed to be a quality film. I have
learned that every director has a vision with its own distinctiveness
that differs from other directors. Whether its small or large in its
scope, sometimes that is not the point. Some directors want to prove
something to make a point, while some just want to just make a story
that's basically good, without the need to be over-politically or
socially conscious to the point where it becomes pretentious.And 'Shawshank' is basically that. A good simple story about one's will
to hold on to hope despite how heavy the circumstances. Sure, some
might not view it as realistic for a story about prison life, but
applying to the concept of life in general is what fits and not if it
rings true to how life in prison really is. It's a more of a 'life'
film than a prison film. When one feels like they are in their own type
of 'prison,' sometimes just having a friend to bring you a little
freedom is all you need to feel free again, and that is a comforting
message in all its beautiful simplicity.With its 'floating on a cloud' atmosphere, it really has a soothing,
calm, and tranquil atmosphere, despite the setting being a prison. This
tone is what separates 'Shawshank' from other films and becomes its own
distinct world and with that the film comes off feeling more hopeful
than dark at times, and I think that's more than I can ask for from
this great movie, at the end of the day.

******
5 May 2013
10
The Shawshank Redemption is an impressive story that focuses on two
themes. The main theme is a heart-warming story of perseverance and
redemption. The sub-theme is more akin to an exposé of the penal system
and the horrors that it creates. These two themes intermingle
throughout the entire film until it ends with an anti-climactic
revelation that Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) has not only beaten the
system, personified in Warden Norton (Bob Gunton), but has also managed
to save another inmate, 'Red' (Morgan Freeman), from death. The
director and producer work together in an impressive combination of
screenplay, lighting, sound and editing. I won't spend too much time on
the screenplay, simply because I cannot do it justice. However, the
writing and acting were impressive to say the least. The actors mingled
in a way that very effectively reinforced the two themes stated above.
During their time at Shawshank the actors progressively lose their
vitality and morality. As the movie progresses all the characters show
the oppressive effects of the penal system, both when it is used as
designed as well as when it is abused by the Warden. Andy is no
exception to this rule. I feel that the film is designed to show us
that Andy would be destroyed by Shawshank as well, if he hadn't found
the means to be free of it. Lighting and color were another medium that
the director took advantage of to portray the misery and glory of
Andy's story at Shawshank. The Shawshank Redemption was filmed with a
strong preference for harsh lighting. Very rarely in the film is anyone
portrayed graciously, even our main character is exemplified for his
flaws. The color choices were even more indicative of the harsh
realities of Shawshank prison. The prison is practically gray-washed,
and would have been almost as effective if it were filmed in
black-and-white. This strongly supported the sub-theme that speaks
against the penal system. However, when Andy makes the choice to do
something with what little freedom he has, there is a significant
change in the color of the film. This is most notable in the opening
and expansion of the library. During these scenes the lighting and
color of the film seems to brighten considerably, showing the viewer
that Andy's perseverance of attitude and self-improvement have a
distinct effect on the nature of even Shawshank's oppressive walls. The
sound and narration of the film also relate well to the film. The sound
effects in the film are universally harsh lending weight to the
oppressive atmosphere. The stark grinding of metal bars on stone, or
the shuffling of inmates feet are sounds that are good examples of
this. The narration serves a dual nature. It is almost necessary just
to speed the progress of the film that covers a number of years of
imprisonment. However, it also teaches us a lot about the history of
Shawshank. The narrator's voice is old and seems weighed down with
Red's own battle at Shawshank. However, it also holds a measure of
Hope, a feeling that seems foreign to the gray walls of the prison.
This duality of emotion exemplifies the nature of the war between the
two themes of Hope and Oppression.

******
3 May 2013
9
This masterpiece, directed by Frank Darabout, explores two men seeking
redemption as they dream of freedom in Shawshank prison. Andy Dufresne
(Tim Robbins) is convicted for the murder of his wife and her lover; he
also befriends a convict named Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan
Freeman) as he eventually gains the respect of the other inmates. Roger
Deakins' cinematography has the ability to capture Andy's sense of
determination and optimism in Shawshank prison. This unforgettable
drama deeply explores the essence of hope as the audience learns that
"some birds are not meant to be caged; their feathers are just too
bright."

******
26 April 2013
9
A must watch movie. Redefines the emotions like hope and trust etc. The
character of Morgan Freeman is also fantastic. Got to know what prison
is . Life Sentence is one of the most torturous Punishment one can get.
The planning process of the escape is just mind boggling. But I still
can't believe that a person can keep his hope for this long. Al though
I doubt that in 19 years, his cell was not changed. But of course this
movie was released way back in 1994. Got to know much about American
prison and prisoner- maintenance system that existed then. Morgan
Freeman plays his character well and so does Tim. every part of the
movie will be well understood as the movie progresses. Its a long but
interesting movie. After all, these many internet reviewers cant be
wrong. But it is not the best movie of all times.

******
25 April 2013
10
Movies are meant to entertain. Most of the times, they even fail to do
that. In this era, dominated by Computer Generated Imagery (CGI), most
movies project an alternative reality, a getaway from our dry world. In
such manner, it is fun to watch and even very entertaining.Only might bring up The Dark Knight, which is also a truly great movie,
in such conversations but in the end it is futile.The Shawshank redemption is a class of movies, which until now has only
got itself in it. This movies forces us to question ourselves. Through
these movies, we live someone's else life and understand it.It is entertaining as hell not cause of the imagery or the camera work
or the some cool gadgets rather cause it strips down the beautiful
human nature and portrays the intricate feelings in a form so powerful
that it may be more of a reality than this life is.Every time you watch this movie, you learn about yourself. You grow.
You believe.With lots of awe admiration and respect, A Shawshank Redemption Fan

******
23 April 2013
9
At the early stages of this film, when Andy arrived at the prison in a
bus full of other prisoners, one of the guards told the new arrivals to
discard their cell phones. Did I hear this incorrectly? Anyone knows
that cell phones were not invented anywhere near 1947.As for the film itself, I rarely score a '9' and the only '10' was
'Montenegro,' an American/Swedish co-production, black comedy made in
the mid-80's. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, as well as the warden
(Frank Dunton) were superlative and the script was so good, one might
think the story was based upon fact, whereas it is fictional.A Yale (or was it Harvard?)law school study revealed that 7% of
incarcerated inmates are innocent. One prominent attorney said that was
an 'acceptable' percentile. I don't want him as my defense attorney.I liked the ending. It doesn't leave the viewer hanging. While sanding
his boat in working clothes, I'm sure Andy lived in a mansion above the
Pacific Ocean. $377,000 was a lot of money in 1966.

******
9 April 2013
8
The Shawshank Redemption can probably be accurately described as the
king of the sleepers. For a good number of years now this film has
routinely been included at the top or just off the top of best films of
all time lists. Yet, unlike most others with that type of prestige,
this film did not do well at the box office on initial release; it did
get nominated for several Oscars but didn't actually win any. It was
only once it was released on home video that its reputation began to
grow and grow. Nowadays it's almost taken for granted that Shawshank is
one of those films that many people consider their all time favourite.
For me personally, I can't truly understand the magnitude of love that
Shawshank engenders. I think it is certainly a great film though.It's based on a Stephen King novella called 'Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption'. It's a prison drama and the story itself is
quite straightforward. It's essentially about an innocent man
incarcerated within a corrupt legal system. It has some well observed
things to say about men being institutionalised and the direction is
expertly handled  it takes it's time, keeps things simple but is never
less than compelling. But what really makes this film work is the
characterisations and the excellent script. There are two great central
performances from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. They have a real
chemistry together and you really believe in their friendship. In fact,
it's friendship that Shawshank is effectively about. I think it's this
factor more than any other that has helped it make such a wide
connection with people.

******
7 April 2013
9
It is not the first time that a movie presents the development of a
drama in a U.S. prison. It contains elements of violence, depravity (of
prisoners, their guards and the director), corruption, indifference,
injustice, loneliness, solidarity, ingenuity developed by limitations,
perseverance and tenacity to develop for more than two hours a good
human story culminating in a happy ending "Hollywood-style". It highlights the good performances of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins,
the telling of the story from the point of view of one of the inmates
(Freeman), the criticism of the prison system culminating in the desire
of their oldest prisoners to stay there instead of the alternative of
dealing with a hostile and unknown world as soon as they are released
from this status to their new freedom (the Netherland's syndrome). It is a message of perseverance, faith and strong commitment to a goal
from inmates unfairly treated and judged as well as of indifference
from a society that had created this scheme.

******
5 April 2013
7
A very good movie. It is possible that the men (adult males) will find
this movie more appealing than women (adult females). Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman give very good performances. In particular, Morgan
Freeman excels like he seems to always do in his movies. I can never
get used to the type of character that Morgan Freeman plays because of
his versatility of roles he has played. The movie, although not fast
paced, draws you in and keeps you interested. I could have sat through
an additional 20-30 more minutes of film. However, the movie appears to
be of sufficient length. Quite to my surprise, the ending was not
entirely predictable. Older children (10+ years) would also enjoy this
movie. This is not a chick flick so boys don't bring your date to this
one. OK to share with long term girlfriend or wife though. This move
does not inspire romance nor was its intent. A good film to sit down
with popcorn.

******
2 April 2013
8
The other day I saw Shwashank Redemption (yeah yeah, I had to be
clobbered to watch it, more fool me). What an intense movie! Yes it is
an epic movie, yes its beautifully narrated, but what struck me most
was this movie reminded me of Joseph, son of Jacob in the bible.I mean look at the similarities- Joseph the favorite of Jacob, apple of
his fathers eye. Joseph who dreamed about ruling over his brothers. And
here we have Andy, the blue eyed genius of the banking sector, who has
it all, money, position and a beautiful wife.Joseph is cheated by his brothers and sold into slavery. He is then
tempted by his boss's wife, and he resists the temptation in good
faith. But anyway he is falsely implicated and sent to prison. Andy
gets cheated by his wife and best friend, in a fit of drunken rage Andy
entertains the idea of harming then, but quickly sobers up and resists
the temptation. Andy also gets falsely implicated.So now we have two innocent men in prison, but both don't let
circumstances deter them. Both use their talents where they were placed
and grow and rise to new heights. Joseph found favor with the warden
and became in charge of the prisoners. Andy started filing tax returns
for all of the prison guards and was made the library in charge.Joseph is freed from prison because of his ability to interpret dreams.
Joseph is made the governor of the land and becomes very prosperous.
Andy's banking skills allow him the leeway to manage his escape from
prison. Andy comes across great wealth that he was managing for the
warden.And finally Joseph gets reunited to his family, while Andy gets
reunited with Red who was his friend from the prison.Amazing coincidence, ain't it?

******
25 March 2013
10
I have to say that this is one of my most favorite films of all time
and I must say a lot of people think the same. There is no simple way
of saying it besides that it most likely deserves the top no.1 spot.
However it is very disappointing that it was nominated for 7 Oscars and
it didn't win a single one.If by some how you haven't seen this movie yet than go somewhere buy it
and watch and be mesmerized and be careful of spoilers because they are
everywhere but I must say if you haven't seen this movie bye now you
are crazy. Lastly I believe writing a review on this movie right now is
pointless because pretty much every one on this website has already
watched it and fallen in movie love with this film. Once again if you
haven't seen it yet do it as soon as possible.

******
23 March 2013
8
This film is great. I cannot imagine someone walking away from this
movie thinking it was even okay never mind bad. Shawshank redemption
brings to the table a great story line, great acting and great
direction but not the best of all time (In my opinion). I can totally
understand why people would think this is the greatest film of all time
but I would disagree. The year 1994 to my knowledge is the greatest
year in film of all time, bringing five of the best films you will ever
see, 1. Pulp Fiction, 2. Forrest Gump, 3. Leon, 4. The Shawshank
Redemption, 5. The Lion King. Now I am not writing this review to say
that this is in anyway shape or form a bad movie, as it is a classic
that should never be forgotten but I am here to say it is a great film
but not the best. Morgan Freeman and Tim Allen do act two great performances in this
movie as two inmates at Shawshank prison and some of the dialogue in
this film is phenomenal. If you haven't yet seen this film please do,
you will not regret it.8 Out of 10

******
19 March 2013
7
Damn son, why is this movie so high in the charts? Isn't it another
prison movie?  Oh it is more? The convicts are the good guys and the
wardens are the bad guys? Wait a second there champ; isn't that the
case for every prison movie there is? What is that? It has Morgan
Freeman having lots of cool internal monologues that border the poetic?
And speaking of poetic, isn't there a lot of poetic justice in this
movie? There is? I SEE WHAT YOU DID THERE!OK folks, let's be straight about it. This movie is a teen adventure
masked as a gritty drama. The setting is pessimistic as heck and the
characters act like they are all boy scouts. If you see the whole thing
from a realistic point of view, it is basically making heroes out of
criminals and villains out of the system of justice. And it is also
about rewarding the heroes and punishing the villains with a cop-out
way and heading for poetic justice.Of course the movie was never supposed to be realistic and it is a
mistake to go in with a critical mind. It is about a feel-good
mentality, to never give up no matter what problems life throws at you.
So seriously, don't try to reason that sweet old guy who didn't want to
leave prison but the evil warden gave him his freedom and thus ruined
his happiness. Neither try to make sense of why the system refuses you
parole while you want to and agrees when you give up. Or how someone
digs a tunnel for 20 years and an inspection never finds the hole or
the soil he was removing. That is not the point anyway. It is about
making the best of what you have and defending your ideals with your
life. A thing which definitely stands out is that the objective of the film
is not for the protagonists to escape. Freedom is not found outside the
walls of the prison yard but in the state of your mind. This is what
Andy manages to offer to everyone by gradually transforming the gray
cells into a place where the inmates can find recreation, hobbies, and
even wisdom through a library. They find happiness even when confined. Of course I am too much of a cynical bastard and I couldn't get into
the above mood so well. Call it unwillingness to suspend disbelief but
when I saw all the things Andy offered to the inmates I was only
thinking of how more dangerous they will be if they ever get out, with
added wisdom and crafts in their disposal. Because most criminals don't
reform in prison as you probably know; they learn new tricks and come
out more dangerous than before. Of course the movie was heading for the
fluffy feeling of thinking "Hey, if you give criminals enough hobbies
and recreation in prison, and treat them like human being, they will be
law- abiding citizens when they return to society". Sweet thought, but
still unrealistic since it mostly takes for them to get a proper job to
support a family and stay away from their criminal connections. And
yes, I am missing the point but that is how I felt while watching it. Would any of the magic in this film work if we were told that every
major convict had killed a dozen people, raped several women, and
molested his own kids? Nope, but the past is not the point. It is abut
offering redemption to them regardless of what they had done. Giving
them a second chance if they deserve it and helping them to get back on
their feet after all the beating life gave them. Sweet concept, very
nicely presented, but I am still a cynical bastard, so I give it no
more than a 7/10.

******
13 March 2013
8
I can't say enough about this film its simply the King of Kings when it
comes to movies.Other movies might have something better, but put all
the contents of a great movie together and this one hast is all
Narration, acting, humour, direction, story, suspense, soundtrack...the
full package.Its a powerful movie and I don't know how you can keep
your emotions in check with such a intense story. Its a tragedy this
didn't win an Oscar for best picture over Forrest Gump...for me there
isn't many movies that possess the overall strength of this movie,
hence why its still #1 in on IMDb and top 5 on many other reputable
internet sites.

******
11 March 2013
10
Well, not only that but perhaps the greatest film of all time as well.Tim Robbins and more-so Morgan Freeman give their best performances
ever.It is perhaps a crime this did not win best picture but at least it was
nominated and I cant really get to mad as Forrest Gump is a top 10
movie ever.This is 3 hours but it just flies by.The characterization is perfect.One of the most unique dynamics of the film is we all root on Andy
Dufresne (Robbins) without knowing for sure if he is actually the
murderer or not.We also feel compassion and empathy for Red (Morgan Freeman) even
though HE DID commit murder.You get to like these characters a great deal learning about their
personality inside the Shawshank Prison.The Wardon and the guards abuse their power making Andys escape one of
the most feel good endings of all time.You cant help but smile.A movie everyone should see, numerous times and have in their
collection.Get busy living..or get busy dying...

******
9 March 2013
10
Before I begin, I just would like to say that this review is not for
someone who has seen the movie, and wants support on their opinion,
this is for people who have not seen The Shawshank Redemption and want
to know what a fellow movie-watcher thought of the movie.Do not get me wrong, Shawshank is a fantastic movie. For a movie that
is all dialogue and no action, it really delivers. And when I say "all
dialogue and no action" what I mean to say is, there are no car
explosions, car chases, heists or anything you would see in a
blockbuster. I'll keep this part as obscure to avoid spoilers but the
most action filled part would be when a man is shot in the chest. Or
perhaps when there is a police beating. But that's not where the
cinematic gold of Shawshank lies. The cinematic gold lies in the
character development and the message of hope that it holds within.The Shawshank Redemption shows us that hope can be your best friend and
guide you through your tough times. As you can see I rated The
Shawshank Redemption 10 out of 10 stars, but I do not believe that is
should be #1 on IMDb's Top 250. I believe it should be at least in the
Top 20, but not #1. I believe that The Godfather should be #1 but
that's a different topic for a different time.My recommendation is to buy this movie. If you rent or borrow it,
you'll be disappointed when you have to return. The Shawshank
Redemption is a movie you'll want to watch again the minute it is over.
I can almost guarantee you will feel inspired when you have finished
the movie. I would not call Shawshank a "triumph of the human spirit"
movie, but it really portrays a hopeful message. In regards to appropriate viewing audiences, I am a bit torn. While
this is an inspiring movie, there are a lot of elements that could be
considered too taboo for children. But look over IMDb's Parent's Guide
for this movie and make the call for yourself.

******
5 March 2013
10
There's a particular scene in The Shawshank Redemption where Andy is
just sitting there listening to random opera music. Where Any feels
free and full of hope. That scene full of brilliance defines the whole
movie. If one analyzes this movie, many themes arise. A theme of hope,
a theme of redemption, a theme of second chance, a theme of bonding or
even themes of friendship. If you see the movie the first time, you see
it through the eyes of Andy but the second time, one realizes it's
really the story of Redd and his redemption.Andy is a successful banker and is guilty of murdering his wife. He is
sentenced for life in Shawshank Prison. During his sentencing he
stumbles upon many inmates and one of them ends up being his friend
Redd. During his sentencing Andy does taxes for the Guards and helps
the warden in some illegal activities. The moments in those many years
is what makes Shawshank.The movie is full of unforgettable moments and unforgettable
characters. All characters are well developed and well written. What
works most is that the movie has a simple story yet the deepest meaning
to it. The multiple themes are brilliantly depicted.The climax is just heartwarming! The direction is flawless. Every
sequence is brilliantly executed. It's a shame the Oscars ignored Frank
Drabont.Another plus point is the casting of the movie. Every actor suits the
role to the T. Tim Robbins is just brilliant as Andy! He's nothing
short of spectacular.Bob Gunton is also another act to look out for. He's first rate. All
the other actors are also flawless.Having said that, a performance you take home with you is of the
brilliant Morgan Freeman. It's really tough to describe in words how
good of an act his was. One really wants to applaud him by the end of
the screening.Overall, Shawshank is a movie of a lifetime. Missing it is a crime!

******
28 February 2013
10
this movie teach us about life,hope,dream,freedom ...diaouge of the
movie are more and more effective.a sweet voice of Morgan freeman is
amazing and Tim Robbins gave best performance of his career.brooks also
a fantastic character..i watched this movie at first time at the age of
19 ..in this year 2013..it is still amazing and best after 20 years of
its released. ONE WORD i will watch it still last time of my
life...GREAT MOVIE THE SHAWSHANK AND REDEMPTION.story line of it is
fantastic.directorial part also best and the musics or background
musics it is just no word.one scene of movie i alway want to see is oak
tree scene. a line "remember red :hope is a good thing,may be the best
of things and no good thing ever dies.

******
24 February 2013
10
I can see from the bulk of the reviews on this page that I don't have
to write a glowing review of this film...but I want to. Having read
most of Steven Kings work I cant tell you how many times I have been
let down by films made from his writing. In my opinion however this
film surpasses his story so much so that it becomes the best film ever
made. Morgan Freeman's narration of the film gives me goose bumps,the
story just grabs hold and will not let you go. This film is long but I
guarantee when you reach the end you will wish it would just keep
going. The DVD is lacking in special features which is a shame because
I'm sure I would have watched those countless times as well. All in all
I say not only should everyone see this movie (rent it now!!!) but own
it as I do.

******
6 January 2013
8
A prison escape that is technically so much better than other prison
escape stories.A man wanted freedom, he redeems his life by escaping for the Shawshank
prison and the man's name is Andy Dufrsne. This film is dramatic take
of a man, and in a way it is similar to Escape from Alcatraz and The
Great Escape. The similarity is that the above mentioned films are also
prison escapes and the similarity ends there. This movie is more about
hope and redemption than anything else and this is what sets this film
above the other escape stories. For a man, freedom is highest value and he would do anything to get it.
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is such a nice fellow that we would for
sure like him for the way he is, when he chuckles at the warden when
music is played in prison or when he asks for beers to his friends
without having a sip. We like him because he is selfless, humane in
nature. But more so, he is selfish and works towards his freedom at the
same time. Now, in terms of character he has company n the firm of Red
(Morgan Freeman) and what a great character, RED was, is understood, by
the way he narrates the story. And thus, it's not surprising for Morgan
Freeman to have garnered more best actor award nominations than Tim
Robbins. The novel, written by Stephen sets it up in 1949 - 1966 period in a
prison called Shawshank in Maine, USA. Frank Darabont made it into a
film that's great to see but also tests our patience. It's great in
terms of cinematography, lighting and costume design and even art
direction, but greater was the acting by two lead characters. Just
because of their acting, I was compelled to see this story of HOPE,
that ends in a good way.The sound design is great and worthy of a special mention as a
realistic sound the prison of 1940's to 60's was created. Editing
though, I believe could have been done by cutting short a few scenes,
or rather cutting out a few scenes, just like say one week of hole for
Bogs. I have seen this thrice and, since I knew that this is the best rated
picture on IMDb, but the more I see it, the less I started to like it,
may be I know the story too very well. Maybe, I am finding fault with
reasons of a prison escape done too trivially, by crawling in gutter
for 500 yards or by creating a hole in the room. Or maybe, I think that
Andy was just too easy and too casual on what he did. These are all my
own reasons that put me down each time, I see this. Yet this has a good
place in my memory and heart for I see this, just because there is
hope, and HOPE IS A GOOD THING. I just love the dialogs of this film
and thanks to Stephen King and Frank Darabont for that.It's a 4/5 for a movie that may not be the best in my view yet is a
good one to be watching. Go listen dialogs like 'you get busy living or
you get busy dying'. They are like music to ears.

******
5 January 2013
10
To anyone that says Forrest Gump was the best movie then you are
insane. The Shawshank Redemption is the best movie I have ever watch.
It doesn't have any problems whatsoever. While Morgan Freeman takes
most of the attention, Tim Robbins was absolutely incredible. The
Movies overall message is inspiring and is one that will truly make you
smile. The movie is long but it is just the length that it needs to be
and won't bother you. What sets this movie apart though is the acting.
The acting was on a level I don't think we have seen since. The movie
is one of the best of all time and I recommend it to anyone who wants a
good story

******
2 December 2012
10
The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Andy escapes in the end by digging a hole through the wall, morgan
freeman is let free after serving 40 years in prison.Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds gainful use of his
entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of Shawshank by dealing in
contraband and commodities rare to the confines of prison. Andy's
demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to take a deeper look
at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to Red and the other
inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank prison convention
will find no home in his lifestyle.

******
25 November 2012
10
I usually don't write reviews but this has got to be said, hands-down
the most magnificent movie I have ever seen! One of the few movies that
actually made me cry and I'm a grown man. It had it's cries, laughs,
anger, and happiness all in one complete package. Morgan Freeman is one
of my favorite actors and this film truly holds him to be legendary.
There is nothing about this movie I would change, absolutely perfect no
complaints here. I can watch this 10+ times and still have the emotions
I had when I first watch it. A must watch for everyone (age appropriate
of course) because this is a masterpiece you cannot not see. You feel
what the characters feel, you are part of the movie. Beautiful,
stunning and heartwarming, I cannot stress enough how much this movie
touched me.

******
19 November 2012
9
https://www.facebook.com/MovieReviewByYunusIrshadThe Shawshank Redemption (A)------my Rating: 4.5/5 stars EXCELLENTIt is a superb crime thriller of a prisoners in a shawshank prisonVERY GOOD:- *Story - thrilling one *CLIMAX CLIMAX CLIMAX -
unpredictable and stunned *Performances - very touching and decent
*Dialogues - solid and bold punches and had more wild words *Music and
BGM - rocked the speakers with sound effects in DOLBY stereo surround
sound *Direction and Cinematography : stunned and perfect 1994 style..AVERAGE:- *Screenplay - first half very slow whereas the second half
flied away with thrilling FINAL VERDICT:- Leave all Ur work download the movie with 5.1 sound and
feel the real experience of emotional thriller.... worth watchingTwo imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and
eventual redemption through acts of common decency.Andy Dufresne is a young and successful banker whose life changes
drastically when he is convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for
the murder of his wife and her lover. Set in the 1940's, the film shows
how Andy, with the help of his friend Red, the prison entrepreneur,
turns out to be a most unconventional prisoner.

******
18 November 2012
9
I swear this movie was narrated by God, and by God I mean Morgan
Freeman. When I found out Shawshank Redemption was a movie based off a
Stephen King book, I expected a creepy horror movie, sort of like The
Shinning. Needless to say, I was pleasantly surprised. Tim Robbins,
Morgan Freeman, and the rest of the cast deliver in one of the greatest
films ever made in history, at least according to IMDb, it was ranked
number one. So how does one review possibly the best movie ever made?The first time I watched Shawshank Redemption I wasn't really
impressed, but when I saw it ranked atop the leader board on IMDb, I
watched it again, and I agreed with its place. This movie was
absolutely fantastic. The story flows and connects really well. The
characters are lovable and important to the overall story and by the
end it made me just go, "wow that was awesome." This is a story of a man named Andy Dufresne who was convicted for the
murder of his wife and the man who she had an affair with. When
Dufresne arrives in Shawshank he keeps a low profile but struggles with
what one would call normal prison problems. He then uses his
intelligence of the business world to get on the good side of the
guards and the warden. He makes the warden really wealthy and prison
life becomes simpler. Then the story develops from there and it is
rather complex, but I won't give too much away.I have to start with a few flaws I saw in this movie. The story was a
bit slow with a lot of scenes or stories within the major story taking
place. In the beginning Andy had problems with the perverts of the
prison, or Andy playing the music over the speakers of the prison etc.
A few of these stories were pointless and just made me think, "Why?"
Some were definitely amusing but it is only a small gripe. Maybe if I
watch it again I will appreciate them more, but for now it just dragged
the story if you ask me. A second problem, and this really bugged me,
was the fact that Andy Dufresne entered the prison in 1947 and left in
1966. That is a 19 year period. For a story to last 19 years is not a
problem at all, but the fact that the characters do not age annoyed me
a lot. Morgan Freeman was supposed to be in his 40s at the start. Now
it doesn't matter what decade it is in real life, Morgan Freeman always
looks old and wise. And by the end, Freeman didn't really age at all.
Sure maybe a gray hair or two, but that was it. Dufresne looked the
exact same and so did the Warden. Now some might ask why 19 year
storyline but it makes sense if you actually see the movie. The
director could have easily added some wrinkles, white hair, something,
but there was nothing and it didn't make the time span believable. When
Freeman narrates it's 1966 I didn't really believe it. Little details
like that are things I can overlook because it is such a fantastic
movie but small things like that make an awesome movie a classic movie.The major strength of the movie, in my opinion, is the characters.
Dufresne, Red, the warden are the main characters so obviously they
will have complexity and lovability, but even smaller characters like
Brooks are still important. Brooks showed the prisoner who spends his
life in prison and knows nothing else. He is a minor character but he
made me think of prison life and prisoners themselves. When he got out
of prison he didn't know what to do, he even wanted to stay. He had a
minor role with a big impact. Even when he is gone he is remembered and
mentioned many times. I really don't remember his name but the character who was the
stereotypical 60s man and resembled Elvis was possibly the most
important character of all (I'm just going to call him Elvis.). To save
spoilers I will only hit the tip of the iceberg. The main story
connects with the minor stories told throughout the movie really well
but the all seemed pointless until Elvis shows up in Shawshank. He
gives Dufresne what he needs and makes the warden put on his evil
pants. Basically, he is the turning point of the story and makes it
relevant. If you saw the movie you will know exactly what I mean, and
if you haven't then go see it so you aren't completely lost. Now the ending was absolutely phenomenal. Throughout the entire move I
was thinking what the point was and where it was going, but by the end
it is so surprising and personally I thought it was unexpected. It
makes you appreciate the idea of storytelling and keeping an audience
interested and when I watched it a second time it was one of those
times when you think, "Why didn't I see this coming?" I love it when
movie do that because it makes me think and if a movie makes me think
it means I am interested and it does its job of being a good movie.Overall The Shawshank Redemption is a classic, possibly one of the best
of all time. Do I think it deserves number one on IMDb's list? No,
absolutely not but it should be in the top 10. A bit of a slow start to
an amazing story that connects really well, a cast of characters
portrayed in depth and detail, and an ending that will possibly blow
your mind all form together to form on of, but not the best, movie of
all time and without a shadow of a doubt gets the WillyT seal of
approval. See this movie ASAP.

******
19 September 2012
10
This has been one of my favorite movies since I saw it originally in
the theater in late 1994, as well as being one of my favorite Stephen
King stories (released as part of "Different Seasons" in 1982 and
subtitled "Hope Springs Eternal"). Why this movie/story has such an
effect on me is because it represents hope in the face of incredible
odds and it is one I watch whenever I feel like I have lost hope in
humankind. All of the elements that make excellent motion picture
entertainment are here - stunning cinematography, beautiful and
uplifting music, enthralling and gripping story, and talented acting by
all those selected for the roles. Frank Darabont also deserves credit
for meshing all of these elements into an unforgettable experience that
I never tire of. Perhaps the most memorable line in the movie is
uttered by Morgan Freeman ("Red") - "Get busy living, or get busy
dying" - and how it applies to life in general.

******
17 September 2012
10
Suphie W. 9/13/2012The Shawshank Redemption Movie Review Though I haven't seen this film
since the year of 2004, (it came out in 1994), I seriously remember
being moved by it. I remember, quite vividly and with a pleasant vibe,
how moved my friend and I genuinely felt when we first watched it
together. These were in the days when Blockbuster was still around and
when it was more monetarily feasible as well as logical to go out to
your local movie store and rent a movie to watch with your friend; this
was, with all due respect, before the current and giant economic
melt-down that we are all experiencing. So, to set the scene and mood
of the period in which we watched this film for the first time, the
candles were lit, and my friend and I were seated eating gummy bears,
and we stayed up and watched that sucker into the wee hours of the
morning, cat-sitting. The economy was better, then, for sure, we all
know, but, we were having a hell of a time (now my friend is away,
teaching English abroad, in Korea, soon to retire there, though; she's
had enough of it, as the lifestyle and the culture were just generally
getting on her nerves, and she felt she had achieved what she wanted).
Well, basically, the Shawshank Redemption is all about solitary
confinement in a small, insulated, but high-security prison in
middle-to-Southern Ohio, set in the '50s. Morgan Freeman and his white
counterpart in the film (race was a factor back then), partner up to
give each other moral support and courage during a very tough time for
them both. The part that struck me most about this film, though, was
that Tim Robbins, or, the character played by Tim Robbins, was put into
solitary confinement, where food was shoved in his little cell in an
unsanitary manner, and he was treated, as the proverb or saying goes,
like a dog; and where he couldn't see nor hear from anyone for a long,
long time; it was verifiable torture. In addition, Morgan Freeman, who
plays someone who is, like Tim Robbins, on the death row, plays your
average cool-cat gentleman who was convicted for the murdering of his
wife or something, but who claims he didn't do it. There are many
cafeteria scenes where the two bond joyously over their own jokes and
jiving, and where they eventually become better friends. Basically, the
two bond over their common suffering, and help each other through their
sorrow. Indeed, Bob Gunton also plays in the film, a man who plays the
jail-owner, or something. He appears, in real life, to be much older
than either Robbins or Freeman, born in October of 1959, and 1937,
respectively. Robbins notably graduated with honors from the drama
program of UCLA in 1981, then went on to do other great things, such as
forming the Actor's Gang Theatre Group, which expressed radical
political views as seen through a European lens. In addition, Robbins
has received many dramatic awards, and continues to do sporadic work in
film. Freeman, of course, is the mighty train who continues to do well
in whatever he does, and is well-liked by all, really. Bob Gunton has a
tendency for playing strict, militaristic, authoritarian roles when it
comes to his film-work, and he plays the role in the notable movie of
The Shawshank Redemption. There are several intense scenes in the
movie, The Shawshank Redemption, and many of them include the showing
of the intense pain of both Freeman and Robbins, as they elude their
grief. Robbins, in particular can't take the pain of being "locked-up"
so to speak and often shouts, screams intensely out of frustration with
having no one to talk to, and out of mental and emotional pain. Morgan
Freeman notably cries, which is all the more pitiful as one sees his
weary countenance.

******
4 September 2012
10
One just cannot describe excellence of this movie. Movies are generally
considered classics based on - Story/Screenplay - Direction -
Performances - Overall FilmThis is one movie that probably musters a 7-8/10 in the top-3
categories ... However the Overall Film is so overwhelming that it
scores 11 out of 10. Just like good wine, it just feels a better movie
every time you watch it.How many movies have been made in the 100+ years of cinema that can
ever boost of such an impact!!! The Godfather (both 1 & 2) is surely
9.5-10/10 in the top-3 categories; but misses the mark considerably as
an Overall Film (maybe 7.5-8/10).Just like popular Nursery Rhymes, age-old Fairytale stories, music from
Frank Sinatra, Elvis Presley & Michael Jackson - One never gets bored
watching The Shawshank Redemption again & again & again ... A Film For The Generations !!!

******
4 June 2012
10
for me the best movie of all time , watch Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman in an amazing performance , fill my heart of feelings , the
history , the actuation , the performance of all actors in this film ,
for me simply the best movie of all time. the drama and the teaching of
this movie is great. when i talk with the people about " Shawshank
Redemption" all said " yea the best movie of all time" me and my
friends share the expression of happiness and feelings when each one
watch the movie, the performance of Bruce Hatlen is amazing and
gorgeous , and the mystical phrases " Get busy Living or get busy
dying" ....this phrase is recorded on my head for the rest of my life,
the point is Shawshank redemption is the best movie for me.

******
22 May 2012
10
Shawshank Redemption is an amazing story about a prison break planned
by Andy, and the journey it took to achieve his plan and a excellent
movie. It is an amazing movie , i seen it four times already in past
few years. Andy is one of my favorite characters in movie because of
his polite, educated and cunning mind. The plan is a master escape plan
and live his life they way he want it to be.takes the "innocent man in
prison" theme and bends it at a different angle.Andy Dufresne, wrongly
convicted of murdering his wife and her lover, finds the strength not
only to change himself, but to bring hope to those around him in
Shawshank Prison. This inspiring story is interwoven with a soundtrack
which invokes every emotion, from haunting and chilling, to stirring
and beautiful. When you go to see a movie and it touches you with its
poetry, music, and its atmosphere, and leaves you with a sense of
victorious satisfaction, it is a triumph. And it is not necessarily
redemption for the actual crimes you might have committed, but it is
redemption for the way you have lived your life. What emerges can only
be called a magnificently piece of art. This is what movies were meant
to be.

******
12 May 2012
9
*Contain Spoilers*The Shawshank Redemption (1994) Director - Frank Darabont
Cinematographer  Roger Deakins Writers  Stephen King and Frank
Darabont Editor  Richard Francis-BruceFavorite Quote: "Hope is a good thing and good things never die." The
Shawshank Redemption is about time, patience, hope and loyalty. In
1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (protagonist) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding, picks him as the new recruit. The
first part of the film deals with Andy, Red and their group of friends
dealing with prison life.Andy wants to be a freeman. He regrets his past and wants to move on
with a new life and memories. But the ugly realities of prison life are
quickly introduced to Andy. A corrupt warden, sadistic guards led by
Capt. Byron Hadley and inmates who are little better than animals,
willing to use rape or beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy
does not crack. He has the hope of the truly innocent, which (together
with his smarts) allow him to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking
skills to win favor with the warden and the guards, doing the books for
Norton's illegal business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments
of most of the prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the
prison library and bring some dignity and respect back to many of the
inmates, including Red.After almost a two decade stay, in 1966, Andy Dufresne escapes the
Shawshank prison by tunneling through the wall with a rock hammer worn
down to the nub. He sets off to a new country for a new life and is
later accompanied by his prison mate Red.Andy Duresne is a man of hope. He is a smart person and a loyal friend.
The Shawshank Redemption is the journey of redemption of Andy and his
fellow convicts. Redemption is found in many ways, by many characters,
even by a bird named Jake. It's a story portraying the corruption and
politics in a prison and the transformation of an investment banker to
a smart con. It shows how the weak and innocent protagonist, who is
often bullied and tortured during his early stay in prison, adapts and
changes himself with the situation and out smarts the guards and warden
to run away with their illegal money and starts a new life.Review By  Mayank Bhattacharya

******
24 April 2012
10
When I first discovered IMDb I was curious on knowing the number 1 in
the top 250. I saw Shawshank at 1, and I was very mad that it wasn't
The Godfather. So then I downloaded it on my Mac. Me, my mother and
sister saw it together. After we watched it. I felt something inside me changed. My vision of
the world changed from negative, to positive. I felt hope. The acting was great, It had great dialogs, smart representation of the
Warden and Andy's relationship, carefully explained story, and an
awesome ending. I don't see any reason why you should hate it!So then I decided to watch it again, and I could honestly say that the
more you watch it, the more you'll like it! It makes you wanna go out
on a rainy day and spread your arms out wide as if you yourself escaped
from prison!I really want everyone to see this movie. So that when we look at a
criminal... We could see them as a person who can change the world for
the better.

******
12 April 2012
10
Anyone who has not watched this movie needs to. Morgan Freeman's role
really defined my generation. His performance as "Red" was probably the
best I've ever seen.I'm not a big Tim Robbins fan, in fact this role is the only one I
like, maybe Bull Durham...but not on this level. Andy Dufrane, really
makes the best of what would simply drive most of us to the brink of
insanity. He did it because he found friends. Which did become his
family.Andy was a difficult man to know, he was so smart so intelligent. Even
Red his friend who was telling the story didn't really seem to
understand him, at least until the end. I love it how Andy had to put
himself into positions to make the prison is own. He got himself out of
a bad situation by befriending his enemies, and then when the time was
right, taking them out. While in their minds they were using Andy for
their benefits, but Andy knew he used them...brilliant.These two friends in a sense had their own lives defined by their
friendship. How many people can say that have ever had a friend like
that? I hope that in the next 20 years my best friend, will have help
define me.The best thing about this movie, is how simple they made it. "Get Busy
Livin' or get busy dyin." That in and of itself is advice we all need,
especially when work or school seems to dictate our routines.My advice watch this movie. It is the best of the last 50 years.
Period.

******
5 April 2012
10
No spoilers here, and not a 'review' in the sense that most people have
written them here.If you have not seen this movie, and wish to watch a movie that does
not get old - even after the 10th or 20th viewing - go and rent or buy
Shawshank.It is a movie of survival under some of the worst circumstances a
person could find him or herself in.How do you take being thrown in Hell, and finding something nice for
yourself and those around you? Let Andy Dufresne show you how to persevere and climb out from a
nightmare.By: Divya Nanjappa.

******
27 March 2012
9
Film shot from the book by horror master Stephen King. Andy Dufresne
(Tim Robbins), a well-paid banker in New England, is accused of double
murder - his wife and her lover. Insists he is innocent, but because of
irrefutable evidence is sentenced to double life imprisonment in
Shawshank prison. Shawshank governs hypocrite and a fanatic bible, the
head of Norton (Bob Gunton), and with it the sadistic guards. Andy
after a few days meets a brutal reality of prison, but with innate
intelligence, cleverness, and help a friend Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding
(Morgan Freeman), he manages to keep hope, which will take revenge.Years 30-ste twentieth century. Andy Dufresne is convicted of the
premeditated murder of his wife and her lover to stay in the toughest
prison - Shawshank. The very first night convinced of the ruthlessness
of the guards, when one of them beat a prisoner to death. For a long
time nobody hero tries to get in the way, but when he hears a
conversation about money guards, Andy as a banker familiar with
loopholes helps keep the money becomes famous. And after a short time
we all turn to him for help with taxes. The prison governor, however,
does not remain indifferent to his talent and he decides to use it to
make money. Meanwhile, Andy meets Red, with whom he befriends.
Everything is going the best, but until the Shawshank there is a new
inmate that could exonerate Andy. Then greed wins over the chief and
decides to prevent the release of Andy.Andy but is characterized by great composure. Reddowi impressed with
their behavior (Morgan Freeman), a local "smuggler". Redd can fix "this
and that." Andy quickly befriends him. Dufresne is appreciated by their
"superiors." Using the knowledge helps a lot of keys and the chief
himself. In return, can expect a variety of perks. From one Andy
Dufresne certainly benefited from ...

******
21 March 2012
9
This movie is about the former banker who was falsely imprisoned. He
was suspected of murder (As you can see in the trailer). This movie
describes the mind of prisoners, and situations in prison.Prisoners, especially those who get life imprisonment, are not able to
live normally. They will get crazy because there's no hope for them.
Even if they are able to get paroled, they can't find hope in their new
life. For them, the life in prison is everything. They don't know how
they live outside. But the man, Andy (main character) was different. He
never give up hope. Hope often cut us. If we don't have hope, we don't
get hurt. If we expect nothing, we don't have to get disappointed.
Prisoners know this, and try not to have hope. But he try to keep it.
His attitude gave me strong message. Also this movie tells us how human lights are ignored in the prison.
Some people might think it's natural that prisoners don't have human
right. They don't deserve for it. But what if there are some prisoners
who are falsely imprisoned and are innocent? I watched this movie
thinking of the human rights of criminals and how warden should treat
them. This is written by Stephen King, and his story is so beautiful. Also
actors are great. I recommend this movie to everyone!

******
29 February 2012
9
Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, Bob Gunton, William Sadler, James Whitmore
and Clancy Brown star in this 1994 drama based on Stephen King's short
story, "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption." This tells of
mild-mannered Banker, Andy Dufresne (Robbins) who is framed for
murdering his wife and her lover. He's sent to New England prison,
Shawshank where he befriends convicted murderer, Ellis Redding aka
"Red" (Freeman). Andy also puts up with corrupt Warden, Samuel Norton
(Gunton) and his Guard Captain, Byron Hadley (Brown). Andy doesn't let
them or the prison get the best of him because he has hope keeping him
going. Sadler (Die Hard 2) plays prison inmate, Haywood who is friends
with Red and Andy and the late, Whitmore (Psycho) plays their other
friend, Brooks. I love this film, Robbins and Freeman are terrific in
it and together, the rest of the cast is good as well and Thomas
Newman's score is excellent. This is the film that always gives us hope
and I highly recommend it.

******
28 February 2012
9
The Shawshank Redemption is actually a short novel written by Stephen
King. Tim Robbins is falsely imprisoned for the murder of his wife. He
becomes best friends with Morgan Freeman and plots an escape using a
small hammer to slowly create an opening in the wall which is covered
with posters.Freeman narrates the story and he and Robbins make a terrific pair
struggling to survive prison life while keeping their sanity. They
manage to make it through their days by dreaming of the perfect escape.
King has written a tale of hope and inspiration which is adapted with
great style and grace by Frank Darabont. He later made King's Green
Mile in 1999, another excellent prison drama.

******
27 February 2012
9
The reason this movie is ranked number one is that it is a tale of
hope. It's the story of a man, who claims to be innocent, on the inside
of a jail. We witness the cruelties. We witness the sadness. We witness
the unforgivable corruption. We never know what Andy is thinking. We
see him through the other characters, through their thoughts. Mostly
through Morgan Freeman's character, who narrates the film. His
portrayal of his character is more than successfully satisfying. He
nails it, as he always does. They build real characters who go through
real changes, something people can relate to. I'm trying to not reveal
any of the plot. The plot is not complex, or not overly complex I
should say. It will be easy to follow as long as you start at the
beginning. It's the way to movie presents it, the way it reveals itself
to the audience is what makes it so brilliant. The plot turns are
unexpected. I think that what makes this movie so great is that. The
way it keeps you interested, keeps you unprepared. It truly makes you
feel for the characters though they're inside a prison. It shows how
fragile the situation is on the inside, for all of them.

******
14 February 2012
10
never the less the best film i have seen so far its been a while since
Hollywood made a film with some heart in it, its about time for that to
happen again I do miss those i wonder when this is going to happen
again the collaboration between a great director and an amazing cast is
pretty rare this days, also wondering when the director is going to
come out with a new film that would shake the cinema world. its a pity
sometimes to go and pay 10-15$ for a film that has never made my
emotions tweak. I wish it will happen sooner than later. although there
are some good movies here and there, still am waiting for another
perfect one that leaves you sitting down wondering what just happened
in the last 90 to 200 minutes.

******
13 February 2012
10
Even though the number of fantastic reviews overpowers the bad reviews
I would like to challenge the bad. These "critics" call this movie
boring, stereotypical, and not believable. Their ratings, 1 out of 10,
are based on an overreaction in order to draw attention to themselves.
These ratings don't have merit and quite frankly are immature. For
starters, this movie is based around a theme that's both controversial
and important. The premise of falsely convicting someone to life in
prison or capital punishment is as real and as touchy of a subject that
you can get. It has been a major problem in society since the beginning
of law and occurs more frequently then anyone would like to admit or
even think about. So already we have a movie that is thought-provoking,
relevant, and powerful. Then you get Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, in
their prime, give career and industry altering performances. Then the
movie goes above and beyond ALL others when the universal themes of
fear, friendship, and hope are exquisitely baked into the plot. Unlike
most movies, the final outcome isn't always apparent and is definitely
not given up easily. The movie is purposely stretched out in order to
create an emotional connection. Shawshank understands that whenever
something is quickly and easily given up it won't be very thought
provoking. Additionally, Shawshank understands it is a fictional story
and that key embellishments are vital to any influential story.
Therefore, this movie allows the viewer to get emotionally committed so
that you walk away feeling affected.

******
10 February 2012
10
Honestly, I have never heard of a movie that was so captivating and
powerful to watch. The Shawshank Redemption stars Tim Robbins as a
baker who is accused in murdering his wife but denies it. Morgan
Freeman plays a man who has been in the Shawshank prison for many years
and has given up on hope and is fighting to get out of prison by the
parole hearings in the movie. Lastly, you have Bob Gunton from Ace
Ventura When Nature Calls playing a warren that you would think to
trust but is actually the opposite. I wont go further into describing
the movie because it is very difficult to explain the whole premise and
the characters. What I can say is that the plot is brilliantly paced
and full of twists and turns and will keep you on the edge of your
seat. I really appreciated the tone of this film having a grim, dark
bleak side of Shawshank prison and the light uplifting colors outside
of the prison. But, enough of the cinematography how was the acting?
Without a doubt, the acting in this film was absolutely wonderful!
Morgan Freeman does his voice-overs with a very poetic edge and makes
the narration very entertaining. I really love Morgan Freeman's
voice-overs since it shows his fantastic acting. Tim Robbins is very
likable as a guy feeling that he has been framed and is dying to escape
the prison. But, whats different from The Great Escape ,which is
another prison escape movie, is that you don't know how he is going to
escape. The way he does is absolute sheer genius! All the characters
are very likable including the best supporting character in this movie
that everyone can feel sympathy for. Brookes is an very complex
character that I felt attached to when he left prison on parole. But, I
wont spoil the rest of the movie because you must go see it for
yourself! You will not be disappointed! This is one of Frank Durabont's
masterpieces that would have never happened without the genius writer
STEPHEN KING!!!P.S. This movie has one of the if not the best ending I have ever seen
since it touches your heart!

******
13 January 2012
10
Of all the prison movies I have ever seen, The Shawshank Redemption is
easily the best of them all. And of all the movies based on Stephen
King's novels and novellas, this is the best adaptation. It was a shame
it did not win any of the Oscars it was nominated for. I think it is
one of the best movies to be made in so many years in cinematic
history. It gives you insight on what life would be like if you were in
prison. This movie focuses on a man sent to prison for the murder of
his wife and her lover, which he did not commit. Tim Robbins is one of
the most talented actors around. He plays his role with a lot of heart,
soul and conviction. His best film role to date. Morgan Freeman is also
very talented, he also played his role with a lot of heart, soul and
and conviction. This is also his best film role to date. And finally
hands off to Bill Gunton for his role as the wicked prison warden. His
character is an absolute bad ass. The Shawshank Redemption is a true
masterpiece.

******
12 January 2012
10
I will start with a basic summary:This movie starts out with a banker(Tim Robbins) who supposedly killed
his wife and her lover while drunk. This led to a conviction and prison
sentence. Most of the story takes place in this prison, Shawshank. Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman are the main characters, who become best
friends who use their friendship as a means to escape from the hell of
prison and the devil in their warden. Tim (Andy), a brilliant man, manages to make a slightly better prison
life for himself and his fellow inmates by helping out the warden with
basic office things. However, this was not enough for him. He need to
escape, and escape he did in the most spectacular way. Now, I will give my opinion on the film:This film is something that you should devote time to watching when you
have no interruptions. Turn off your cellphone and unplug your home
phone before watching it because the greatness of this film is
something that shouldn't be interrupted. The story line is perfect. The
acting is perfect. The characters are so deep and gripping. The setting
is excellent. If you have money, I would definitely recommend that you
buy this in blu-ray (if you have blu-ray player) and connect it to a
surround sound system, because you will want to hear every spoken word,
every fallen leaf, every gust of wind, every detail.This is one of about only 5 movies that I give a solid 10 stars.

******
21 December 2011
10
I should say that usually I'm not much into drama. But the beauty of
The Shawshank Redemption magically forced me into watching the whole
film three times over the years.Its the kind of movie that is so
powerful and realistic you become glued to your seat until the end. The
twist at the end gave the movie a perfect finish without affecting the
fine gist of the whole movie. Shawshank Redemption teaches us, improves
our feelings about the world and changes our expectations about 'luck'.Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins deliver their best performance to date.
If Tom Hank's movie Forrest Gump was not made in the same year, this
would most certainly be the winner of the 67th academy awards.

******
12 December 2011
8
The story opens with a non intelligent man who is committed to make a
crime, in the mid of 19th century. The story is furnished with the
solid voice of Mr.Morgan Freeman who narrates the story throughout the
movie. Though the story has a very slow pace which makes it a bit
boring, it has a fine twist in the end which clears all the memory of
that boring bit , to turn in an interesting end. The concept of the
movies which works out to be a backbone of the story is that the
prominence of intelligence along with the persistent effort which
brings success to any man. The Director Mr. Frank brings out three
interesting characters Boyd,Andy and Brooks who contrasts each other in
their approach to life. Brooks in spite of the spending nearly half of
his life in prison fails to make an identity of his own,while Andy
tries to make his identity by giving some risks, while the Boyd plays
safe to join the winner. The resources were available to all the
prisoners at equal band, but the approach of each individual made a
difference. The library project, and chess pawns carving symbolizes the
way the Andy was creative. Brooks had already lost his "hope" in
life(Symbolized by crow liberated by the way he is liberated from the
prison). Andy always believing in himself and Boyd neither there nor
here with both the intentions. The effort of twenty years of Andy gets
him the victory the way he expected causing enough damage to the one
who dominated him (Norton) for twenty years. The director clearly
conveys the message "Hope is a good thing and Good thing never dies".
His judgment cometh and that right soon.

******
11 December 2011
10
Yes. No need to watch this movie, instead just play it on DVD, close
your eyes and just listen to Morgan Freeman's narration of a prison
Life, Hope, Friendship and the days in Shawshank. Every important move in this movie is described by Morgan and his voice
is such a plus that it lift the movie to next level.In a scene, where the entrance of the prison tower was shown in the top
angle, it shows the world in to which the prisoners are entering. It is
a sample scene where the director relied on cameraman to convey the
message instead of 10 line dialog.Everyone expects Morgan and Tim to become friends after all both of
them are big actors. It is predictable. But the way the friendship
develops is truly amazing screenplay.Many sub-plots, people with different attitude were shown in the movie.
Not all of them are good people. But most of the characters are in
transformation phase where they repent for their mistakes.Poetic scene ? Many scenes are there. But the one in which Morgan, Tim
and others drink beer at the top of the roof of one of the building and
the way Morgan narrates the scene.. Amazing...It contains a twist which is a ingredient for any thriller movie. Yet
that brilliant scene is so subtle that everyone appreciate.Will there be any other movie in our life time where it can be simple
yet be so powerful and heart touching ?. Doubt we will see such a movie
soon.As many said before, don't rent it.. instead buy this movie and keep it
safe for next generation to see this movie..Hats off to Morgan, Tim and everyone who acted in this master piece...

******
8 December 2011
9
Shawshank Redemption ! probably the most watched, the most liked movie
of its time and rightly so. The plot flows like a poetry, making the
experience of watching surreal.A young banker(Tim Robbins)is being framed for the alleged murder for
his wife. The man pleads innocent but the court thinks otherwise and is
given a long sentence in the jail and the name of the jail is
Shawshank. The man is completely unassuming and brilliant. Taking
sometime to get adjusted to the jail environment, he befriends many in
the jail. The main one is Reed (Morgan Freeman)who smuggles cigars and
other necessary things to the jail inmates.The jail warden is Norton (Bob Gunton) who is a bible loving, strict
person who hoards and involved in money laundering. Noticing the talent
of the banker, he uses the banker's knowledge to launder the money.
Meanwhile,a young guy is jailed for a petty crime and he confides to
Tim Robbins something that could help him to prove his innocence. But
the warden doesn't approve of it and he gets the young man killed.On one fine day, Tim Robbins suddenly escapes from the citadel of
Shawshank. How he planned it and the execution of it forms the next
part of the movie.The movie is perhaps the best prison break movie ever done. Stephen
King deserves credit for this wonderful, intelligent story and equally
wonderful characterization,the director of the movie for his surreal
creation of the jail environment and actors for their brilliant
performances. The movie could have been edited by a few minutes and
could have been made well within 2 hours. That fact could be overlooked
given the thrill,entertainment the movie provides.

******
2 December 2011
8
Therecare a lot of movies where plot takes place in a prison, with
'innocent' in-mates, cruel warden and a breathtaking escape but I'm
almost sure that the director wanted to pay tribute to Bogart& Bacall's
Dark Passage. There are some particular elements in the plot that
resemble the 50 years old film such as; the ending scene on a south
American Pacific beach (here Mexico then it was Peru), a bus ride thru
the Mexican border, an innocent fugitive etc. (Morgan Feeeman of course
is not Bacall...ha ha ).The rest of the story, or better to say almost
all of it is an entirely different . Tim Robins and M.F work together
with harmony , even pouring some humor into the gloomy atmosphere of
the Shawshank prison.

******
11 November 2011
9
Two thousand four hundred and five IMDb users have bothered to write a
review of this movie. I read all of them and did not find a bad one. Of
course I didn't! I had not seen the movie and that is true. Every
single one of my friends and acquaintances has, and not surprisingly,
recommended it with the highest of praise. The fact that I had not did
put into question my claim to be a movie lover. Now that I have, I
admit it serves me right to have been questioned so.It is a damn good movie for all the reasons everyone wrote in their
reviews and why critics also raved about it. I have no excuse for not
watching it before other than my prejudice toward any movie having to
do with jails, the prison life etc..Halfway into the movie, I was not convinced my prejudice about movies
dealing in any way with prison would change, but the acting was good
enough to keep me going. I was very happy with the direction this movie
took, especially with the ending. Not since "The Birdman from Alcatraz"
and Escape from Alcatraz have I enjoyed a movie that has prison as the
setting; I don't expect it will soon either since my phobia with that
is not going away soon. Finally, having seen Shawshank, I can now have
an intelligent conversation about movies with friends and acquaintances
without risking admonition for my failing to see the movie. Anybody
that hasn't seen it yet and claims some knowledge of movies deserves,
as I did, to be castigated. I've made my peace with the matter and I'm
moving on.

******
5 November 2011
10
Quite simply amazing.This film makes you question yourself, authority, friendship and
injustice all at once. The quality of the acting is brilliant, and what
a storyline. Although set in the past it is a storyline that could run
for centuries. I have watched this film probably 10-15 times and each
time enjoy it as much as the last. An easy watch, and although far
fetched is still believable somewhat. Absolute entertainment from start to finish, and on a relatively low
budget. It just shows that a simple idea for a screenplay can be
adapted into a classic. Many films fail when they make twists too
complicated, or use too many special effects. This film allows the
viewer to make their own decisions but also gently pushes you into
making a connection with each and every character My favourite film by a country mile.

******
21 October 2011
9
A complete experience out of the box filled with the class of the
Golden and Silver Age of Hollywood. Its music leaves one as entranced
as at the end of an epic and its story line strikes one as odd as does
the sight of originality in a commercial world. It makes sense that
Shawshank did poorly at the box office in its initial run because its
commercial appeal is perhaps not as much as was that of Forrest Gump or
Lion King. But its brilliance outweighs both of those films and
instantly grabs one and reels one in. Soothing narration by the Sidney
Poitier of the late 20th century and the all around nice guy persona
projected by Tim Robbins makes the film a high achiever any where and
any time. Why this film wasn't sent in to Cannes escapes me. The best
part about the film is that even after one has watched it and knows the
complete story, it seems as if the entire story does not necessarily
depend upon the ending or the climax, every scene stands out on its
own. The pacing of the film was what struck me as particularly
surprising. I never once felt that a scene had been accelerated or had
been overly edited. The hand carved chess pieces, the acts of altruism,
the escape and most of all, Marilyn Monroe elevate this film to
anyone's BEST EVER list. I won't say its a classic yet though because
it hasn't even been twenty years since it was released.

******
21 October 2011
10
What can you say about Shawshank Redemption? There's a reason it has a
9.2/10 rating here on IMDb I guess. Indeed, this movie ties Forrest
Gump on my #1 all-time-favorite list.What would it feel like, to be thrown in prison for 30 years for
something you didn't do? Anyone who thinks it couldn't happen is blind.Many people might even commit suicide if it happened to them. Andy not
only survived, but thrived in a world few could describe as anything
but "hell." He became friends with a guy who really was actually
guilty.The other thing about this movie that was so awesome, was the great
one-liners. "Get busy livin, or get busy dyin." The acting is
spectacular; you "feel" like you're there in the prison, especially the
first night he's there and the guy start's crying next to him. Wow, so
painful to watch.I read somewhere that in the book, Freeman's character was a red-headed
Irish guy, and they thought it was funny to leave his name as Red in
the movie. That's why he answers "Because I'm Irish" when Andy asks him
why they call him Red.This movie was simply amazing... and from Steven King no less! Crazy.-Tracy Milburn

******
18 October 2011
10
so much beauty in the friendship we see in this film, greatest film
I've ever seen. when this film was up for the best picture oscat, im glad it was, the
Oscar goes to, and not the winner is, because that year the was no
winner. just such beauty in every film up, not to this date have a
never seen a line up like that for best picture and the best actor. tom
hanks, no doubt played the best role of he's life but morgan freeman
played a role of the century. tim robbins was outstanding in fact the
whole cast were terrific.if this film is the last film im ever gonna see then let it be it,
because I've watched something worth dreaming forever about.

******
5 October 2011
10
After a sobering experience in the prison, what would a person believe
as the best thing in life ? This movie tells so much story asides from
the drama that going on in the prison. Andy (Tim Robbins) is an accountant who's wife is cheating on him. She
gets her comeuppance when she gets killed by a thug during her affair.
Andy is accused of the crime, and gets sentenced for life at Shaw Shank
prison. There he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) who would become his life
long friend. Andy knows he's innocent, and won't give up to get the
freedom that he deserves. He devises a long term plan that will
eventually bring bombastic results to the prison and its people.Why would a movie about prisoners and life in prison ever make it to
the top of so many people's best movie list ? Because it's about an
underdog hero that gets his goods in the end. It's about someone who
believes he's being mistreated, and through his genius not only devised
a way out, but constructed a new life for himself. The irony, the
humor, and imbecility of society is all crammed into this fine drama.The finest drama ever to be captured on film. It would be a long time
before someone makes a better movie than this.

******
25 September 2011
10
The Shawshank Redemption is an instant classic by far.This is probably
one of the most greatest movies of all time.Tim Robbins did the role
tremendously.Morgan Freeman made the movie what it is today.I love this
movie.Im telling you if you haven't seen this movie watch it right
now.you will fall in love with the movie.The first time i saw this
movie it almost brought tears to my eyes.The director Frank Darabont is
a genius for this movie and we also have to thank Stephan King for
writing the book.Both of those guys are amazing.please if you haven't
seen the movie watch it, it will blow your mind.those who have seen
this movie don't you agree with me?? This movie is great.

******
2 September 2011
10
Have you ever thought analytically, why this movie is called the best
movie ever made? I don't know but i want to watch it infinite times
because it has the power which will eloquently argue with you.The story tells you about Andy, a wrongfully accused person sentenced
to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her lover. How can he find redemption from the Shawshank Prison? How will he
survive the cruelty and extreme heartlessness in the prison? Will he be
able to see the world of outside the prison? It is all about the hope: Intend with some possibility of fulfillment.
This movie has both aspect of life i.e. agony and ecstasy. It will give
you an impression that nothing is impossible if you have hope and
willpower.Very well acted by Tim Robbins as a silent and soft spoken person, who
has a lot to say from his eyes. Morgan Freeman as Red narrated the
story brilliantly and given the best performance of his life. I loved the character of James Whitmore as "Brook" which defines the
effect of an automatic pattern of behavior in reaction to a specific
situation; may be inherited or acquired through frequent repetition. It
is heart-wrenching and overwhelming.Bob Gunton is ruthless and his immoderately desirous of acquiring
wealth is fantastic as warden Norton.Rita Hayworth's poster says a lot of things which is ineffable.A great movie with great cast because you will never forget a character
of this movie.A movie for every movie watcher in the world. 10/10

******
5 July 2011
9
this movie is now ranked 1/250 of the movies that has been made ever ,
maybe this will change , but the quality of the movie will never change
. it's a movie that satisfies every taste in someways.. when you see a
movie with this limited cast and limited locations as well to shoot
...actually u can count the location a single hand including the
shawshank prison. the director had the potential to make u feel
interested in the movie in a way that u forget about the exciting sets
and wonderful pictures available in other movies ... he was sticked to
the point of the prison with its cells and people in those cells with
their categories as the (sisters) and the hero friends , and he never
forgot to highlight the rulers and the bosses of this place , u can
feel bored when u see the likeness of the scenes in the same locations
over and over ..but it didn't happen in this movie in a way ..Tim
Robbins and Morgan freeman had their own bond in performance using this
to make the screenplay even brighter and stronger. you can never blame
the filmmaker on making a part of the movie for freeman to be the
narrator , it was certainly a plus to the movie. the drift in the last
15 minutes ..make u change the path of your thinking to get it right
and that's always great to add some suspense in such a dramatic movie
where the viewer is living the story and imaging the end in another way
. this movie is top because every aspect of it was done by people on
the top of their game. it doesn't matter if it didn't collect a pack of
Oscars , nomination is not s awful..but this is a classic long living
movie.

******
25 May 2011
10
Unfortunately, there isn't an option available to give this film a
Rating of higher than 10. I remember as a child watching with awe
Disney movies like the lion king and Aladdin and used to think it wont
Get any better than this. Then as i matured i watched many more movies
That again gave me that sense of happiness that i was fortunate enough
To be able to experience such great movies in my life time. But quite
soon, all these Hollywood movies started to seem quite stereotypical
and quite run of the mill stuff. I used to think that Hollywood had
lost its magic for me. Then came along this movie which I Watched 15
years after its release. I must admit that i watched it out Of
curiosity for its being on the top of the IMDb list. And i was
Skeptical of its quality, given the name was not too much of an eye
Catcher plus the fact that it did not win any Oscars. How wrong i was!
Hollywood has outdone itself once again. I could write a whole book on
The greatness of this film, the acting, the direction, the soundtrack
.. I mean it doesn't have any action sequences or any romance or
Anything of the sort. But it is one of those films that makes you feel
Happy inside and yet sad that you may live many more years and watch
Tons of movies but never feel the same climax or emotion that you get
Out of this movie. I have seen both Forrest gimp and Pulp fiction which
Truly are masterpieces on their own, i truly love those movies. But
Really, its nothing short of a crime to not award the Shaw-shank
Redemption the best movie of the millennium, let alone the best movie
of The year. I guess the box office reception of this movie had
something To do with it not winning the award. A must watch for anyone
having an Iota of emotion and love for artistic work.

******
25 May 2011
10
Possibly the greatest movie i have ever seen and definitely the best in
this genre and storyline . great cinematography, acting (specially by
Morgan Freeman) & directing . the best thing i loved about this film
was the switching of the narrator and leading character from time to
time . another great thing about the film is the direction of
photography and filming. also great adapted screenplay . watch this
film alone and with attention and it will really get you involved and
thinking and thats the beauty of it. watching it once wont give you
much of the taste of it so its best if you watch it at least a few
times . Definitely an urgent . don't continue with your life until you
haven't seen this.

******
20 May 2011
9
This movie deserves all the accolades it has received over the years.
The character development was excellent. The acting was excellent...
and the storyline itself was very good, and developed beautifully
throughout the film. I have watched this movie several times (as it is
one of those films you can watch again and again), and each time it
still captures my attention through to the end. I wont dive too much
into details on the plot of the film (as it is a very well known
movie); but will note that it is a definite 'must see' for all those
who consider themselves "movie connoisseurs". There are not too many
negatives (if any) that can be said on the film. I will state, however,
it's current #1 ranking on the IMDb Top 250 is a little bit high
though. Morgan Freeman(Red) was extraordinary in this film. Tim Robbins
(Andy Dufresne)has nothing on his resume close to his performance here
(maybe his performance in Arlington Road). As for resumes, if this is
not on your 'movies seen' resume, you need to improve yourself!

******
15 May 2011
8
This wasn't the first prison movie I've seen. The ones I had seen
before this consisted of gangs of criminals brutally murdering each
other. Or it involved drug dealers who ran the prison, without the
slightest sign of any law force slowing them down.This movie has those elements, but doesn't exploit them as many prison
movies often do. There is no epic fight or riot scene in the end.
That's what I enjoy about this movie. It's not about deranged dealers,
psychotic killers, or blood thirsty rapist. There normal people (more
or less) living in this world that many will never have to witness. (Be
thankful for that.) I'm not really sure if this is a spoiler or not
because it doesn't change much in the story, but Tim Robbins plays a
man falsely accused of killing his wife and her lover. It was a misstep
to make him innocent, as it would of made his character more 'real' to
have made a mistake in his life that he deeply regrets, as Red has.
Red, played by Morgan Freeman, is the actors best role to date, and
he's had many great roles in his career. You sympathize with this
character greatly and you actually come to care for his fate much more
than you do Andy's (Robbins).Overall, I think this a wonderful film that is very well written (based
off a great short story by the master of horror, Stephen King), well
directed, perfectly acted, with a satisfying ending (though I can see
how some can call it a typical 'Hollywood'ending).That being said, is classifying it number one on IMDb justice? No. I'd
be more than happy with it in the top 100, but the fact is there are
better films out there, some which aren't even in the top 250. So I
give it a final score 8/10, I think I'm being fair when I say that.

******
15 May 2011
10
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are absolutely fantastic in this movie.
Its a movie you can watch over and over again without getting bored. It
keeps us on the edge of our seat. Fantastic directing, and to learn it
was originally wrote by Stephen King (the best writer of all time in my
opinion) just makes it even more brilliant. If you haven't seen this before you need to, its a movie for life. The
ending is phenomenal. But be warned there is violence in this movie and
some disturbing scenes, but to be honest without them it wouldn't be
that good. I love this movie and i wouldn't be able to understand
anybody who would dislike it. Watch It ! You will love it.. P.s there are always people who seem to be looking for a similar movie,
Midnight Express is based on a true story, it may not be exactly like
TSR but its close to its brilliance.

******
14 May 2011
8
After reading reviews countlessly recommending the reader to watch this
film if they hadn't already I decided to dedicate some time and money
to get the film on blu-ray and sit down with some food and drink and
prepare to admire a so called "masterpiece". I wasn't disappointed....a
lot.The film grips you from the beginning, the story line promising, good
actors being introduced right left and center, however the film has its
moments where some sub plots make you lose interest, I found myself
drifting off into a day dream a couple of times throughout the film.
However then it got back on track sensing a great finale which it
delivered.I still thoroughly enjoyed the film and believe 8/10 is justified, it
is by no means perfect and by no means the best, but it is up there and
I do recommend it.

******
10 May 2011
9
Before watching this movie i knew that it would be good,but frankly
speaking i had the prejudice of it being overrated.I was like "How the
hell can this movie be praised that much?It has to be good but for
Christ's sake it can't be that good as people say!".Now,after having watched The Shawshank Redemprion i can say only one
thing: Never,and i mean never,be prejudiced before watching a
movie.Even if you have been disappointed by movies that the hype had
made think they would be great.Shawshank Redemption is perfect in every way.The acting,the
direction,the soundtrack but most importantly this movie has the most
beautiful and incredible story of them all.People say that movies' significance for the viewer is not just one but
many.I agree,they are made in order to amuse you,to relax you and take
your mind away of the deadly everyday routine,at least for an hour or
two.They are made also to take you in different "worlds" and make you
see things from another perspectives.But in my book the major
significance of movies to mankind is to pass him and remind life's most
valuable things.In this very film the value that is being radiated so to speak is
hope.In fact the whole movie is about the thing that many people lose
when they are in difficult situations,it is spelled h-o-p-e.And the way
the movie promotes hope is so powerful that it changes you in a
way,especially if you need it.The bottom line is that The Shawshank Redemption is the most beautiful
movie of all time and it fulfills the major significance a film can
have in a human being's life.For the end i leave Andy Dufresne's quote
"Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever
dies"...

******
10 May 2011
10
My gosh, where to begin with this movie.....practically everything was
nailed, spot-on. The story is as compelling and ultimately uplifting as
one will ever find in cinema -- from the very get-go we see Andy
Dufresne in a courtroom, being sentenced to life in prison for the
murder of two people. So instinctively, we believe this must be true --
after all the judge did rule him guilty, right? But over time Andy
grows on us, until we learn of his actual innocence, and by the end of
the movie one can't help but root him on in his pursuit of freedom. Tim
Robbins is the perfect assignment to play Andy, as Robbins'
lesser-known status as an actor (as opposed to Tom Hanks, who was
considered for this role) eases his task of being the quiet, tranquil
Andy who prefers to keep to his own business. Andy's easygoing yet
pensive nature makes him the ideal protagonist, as he is an independent
thinker yet he can peacefully interact with all others.His friendship with Red (Morgan Freeman) is the backbone of The
Shawshank Redemption. Red, a contraband smuggler, may be different from
Andy in almost all respects, but over the years Andy earns Red's
respect through his acts of courage and selflessness. This movie
teaches that title does not have to dictate behavior -- a man who is in
prison can be as kind and generous as anyone outside of prison walls --
it all depends on how far you're willing to look into that man's heart.
I also love the fact that the friendship of the two men heightens very
gradually -- that seems far more realistic than the instant-friends
that one often sees in all mediums of story telling. This one takes
time to develop, creating a profundity in the relationship and
contributing to one of the movie's themes (time). This theme teaches us
how much things can change over time, and also lends to the purported
notion that Andy and Red have been in prison for a very long time.Red's narration is one of the standout features of The Shawshank
Redemption. It is both poignant and insightful, allowing us unlimited
access to his mind, which makes our empathy for him so real. While in
most other films we learn about characters only through dialogue, in
this one Red divulges practically everything to us. His abandonment of
hope and eventual love for Andy makes him a tragic figure that should
pull at the heartstrings of all viewers. When we first see him attempt
to receive parole in 1947, he seems to be no more than an unfeeling
criminal. But by 1967 when he's trying to leave Shawshank Prison after
40 years of incarceration, we hang on every word of his memorable
"rehabilitated" speech. And when he meets Andy on the beach in the
final scene, and the two peacefully embrace with a hug as the camera
fades away, it is hard to hold back tears of joy.A significant aspect of this film is its theme of institutionalization.
We are made to scrutinize exactly what prison does to people. How does
a man adapt to freedom again, once he has been released? All Brooks
Hatlen could land was a job as a grocery bagger and a room in a halfway
house. This inauspicious lifestyle, plus the insecurities of being away
from familiar faces while among all the technological/social changes
since the start of his 50-year sentence, overwhelmed Brooks, as we all
saw in a speechlessly dramatic suicide scene. Red lived in much the
same fear before he decided to take off and cross the border to visit
Andy. So we're forced to ask ourselves: does even a finite prison
sentence essentially end the free will of its recipient? Is it better
to leave the inmate in prison in certain cases? This cuts deeply into
the philosophy of society's legal system.But the overarching theme of The Shawshank Redemption is hope. Hope is
a wonderful, vital virtue that should never be absent in any human
heart. Andy echoes this through his audacious acts (be it offering
financial advice to Hadley or playing classical music over the prison
intercom (which is one of the finest scenes you will ever see in
cinema)). He vocalizes his faith in hope to his inmates when he claims
that his two weeks in solitary confinement were the "easiest" he'd ever
done, all thanks to the music he kept in his head. He tells Red "get
busy living, or get busy dying" and uses the death of Brooks as his
evidence, much to Red's initial chagrin. Yes, Andy is built into an
icon for hope in this movie, and that is what makes it so universally
successful in its appeal. Hope can and should be adopted by every human
being who graces the earth. This notion is expressed through Andy's
entire struggle, as well as in Thomas Newman's incredible musical score
for the film (which is so good it has been used in multiple movie
trailers before to evoke emotional response). This precious lesson,
told through a film in which literally everything is perfectly
mastered, is what makes The Shawshank Redemption one of the greatest
films ever made.

******
21 April 2011
9
I think that this movie was extremely well made, and it accurately
portrayed life on the inside. This film's many great dialogues and
beautiful cinematography make it one of the best movies ever made. The cinematography in The Shawshank Redemption is excellent. Beautiful
shots of the iconic prison are shown from all angles. These shots make
you realize how tough it would be to live your life in a place that you
have no chance of escaping, a place that you are seemingly bound
forever in. The shots of the prison make you feel the power and
influence of the workers of the prison, and how little hope is left for
the people. Inside. Shots like this make all the difference in the
emotional deposit of hope that this movie instills towards the end of
the story. Dark gloomy shots of the inside an outside of the prison set
the mood for the entire film, and perfectly depict the harsh, dark life
of the prison world. The editing in The Shawshank Redemption is great.
Every scene in this movie serves a specific purpose, and all of these
scenes in coherence with each other make this movie as great as it is.
Almost every scene in the movie serves the purpose of making the
audience experience the dark dungeon that is the Shawshank prison, and
makes them realize how very fragile life is. The acting in this movie is some of the best you will find in any movie
anywhere. Actors such as Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman help shape this
movie into the dark masterpiece that it is. Almost every actor in this
movie helps give the audience the overall vibe of prison life, and
helps the people of the outside world see the beautiful injustices of
the movie's legal system. Tim Robbins, who plays the main character
Andy Dufrense, does a beautiful job of depicting life in a federal
prison, and all of the high risks situations an inmate faces every day.
Robbins goes from being a young, callow inmate to being an experienced
hardened inmate that pretty much runs the prisons. Robbins expressions
after coming out of solitary and finding out that one of his friends
have died make this movie what it is, and his performance acts as a
foundation upon which the movie is laid. Morgan Freeman, playing inmate
"Red" Redding also greatly helps guide this movie into the blockbuster
extravaganza that it has become. Freeman accurately depicts a hardened
man on the inside that is touching by the quite and caring personality
of a man not yet affected by the scourges of the outside world. Freeman
depicts his character with aplomb and poise, and he helps to make
Shawshank a movie that over 100 million people will see.The Music and sound effects in this movie are very good. Period piece
movies always require a solid soundtrack that also comes from the
setting. The music department for Shawshank has a perfect balance
between music from the period and eerie sound effects that help turn
Shawshank into a dark, secluded movie. A soft, quite violin when the
prisoners walk through the doors of Shawshank set the mood for the
outline of the movie, and the creators of Shawshank use Mozart (played
by Andy) to calm the prisoners and distract them from the hopeless
lives which they lead. Overall, the music and sound effects greatly
contribute to the plot of this movie. The direction of the film The Shawshank Redemption is wonderful. One of
the greatest directors of all time, Frank Darabont, use this movie to
display his brilliance of directing. Darabont also wrote the screenplay
for this movie, (adapted from the novel by Stephen King) and
manipulates the characters to do his will throughout the movie. Every
piece of the movie is synchronized to perfection, and Darabont displays
the common criminal in a way never seen before y the human eye.
Darabont explores the dark, gloomy side to life on the inside, but
still leaves the audience feeling happy and enlightened in the end.
Just when it seems that Darabont has mitigated hope into absolute
uncertainty, he surprises the audience with the strong influence the
idea of hope has over all people. Overall, the directing in this movie
gives it its fire, and it puts the cinematography and the acting in
their place to do justice to the movie world.

******
30 March 2011
8
Call me a wet blanket, by I won't join the chorus calling SR the
greatest movie ever. Entertaining, yes. Thrilling at times, also. But
in both regards I actually had more fun watching The Sting, or
Capricorn One for that matter. Great cinematography though, specially
during some incredible shots, that of the whole jail population
standing still, frozen in their places, hearing the two sopranos sing
Mozart and the one of Andy standing in the rain, raising both arms to
the skies, expressing the joy of being a free man again.The acting is excellent across the board, except for the kid, who
labors too much to be likable. The atmosphere of the prison is suitably
conveyed in the claustrophobic settings, from the hopelessly enclosed,
barren, courtyard inside the high walls to the always menacing presence
of the uniformed guards. Here those hovering presences are not mere
decorations, part of the landscape, as in many prison movies, but true
components of the brutal reality of the world behind bars. The mortal
beating received by one of the newcomers, the first night, warns us
that these guards are an active part of the plot, so we have to take
them seriously, get used to see them as such.This is a superbly done production from any point of view. The pace is
thoroughly sustained, its overall forward flow allowing for scenes of
unmitigated violence fit the unfolding story as effortlessly as others
more settled ones, without modifying the momentum, because there's
always something, someone, anchoring them all to the essential thrust
of the film; the best ex.: the contemplative faces of the convicts,
seen in semi darkness, while Hadley beats the newcomer to death, which
tells us this kind of incident is just part of their everyday lives,
almost a routine occurrence.What makes SR lose points in my book is the unlikely in some crucial
plot elements as the unrealistic in some scenes, developments,
especially after Andy has escaped. The biggest plot hole of all, IMHO,
is the fact that warden Norton should have ever trusted the management
of his scam to a convicted criminal under his careand a double
murderer at that, as Andy was for him anyway. Call me naive, but I
don't think there's one single warden in the world dumb enough to do
such a thing when he may have easy access to many experts in the
outside--financial consultants, bankerswho would give him help,
advice, as useful, or even better, as the one provided by a convict who
could easily turn into a blackmailer. And what best proves this point
is precisely what Andy says to Red when explaining how he organized the
fraud--the false identity of Randall Stevens, the multiple bank
accounts--when he gloats that "It's amazing what you can accomplish by
mail". As Norton had to know at least as much about these matters, how
could he have trusted in a man who not only had the ability to take the
whole thing away from him, as the experienced banker he was, but who
could also send someone by mail the story of the scam, as an insurance
policy, in case things would get dangerous for him in the can? Norton
had to know from the beginning he was engaging in a loser's game. If he
eliminated Andy he risked losing forever contact with his hidden funds;
and if he didn't, he'd be forever vulnerable to his blackmail. So it
isn't surprising why Andy's so happy about the whole thing. The
question is, how could have Norton been so stupid to think he had any
control on the situation? Other plot holes concern Andy's escape. See,
he crawls hundreds of yards inside a 2--feet sewage pipe and then
everything--the stink of human waste above all--goes away as by charm,
with a simple rainfall. He smells like roses again. And just hours
later he's perfectly groomed, dressed, ready to visit every bank
manager in surrounding towns to make the necessary withdraws. He
doesn't even look tired, when he surely must haven't taken a wink in
the last 24 hours, busy as he was trying to get away from the jail
house. And how did he manage to reach the Mexican frontier safe and
unmolested? didn't the authorities publish his mug shot in every
newspaper, tacked it to the wall on every police station, bus stop,
within a few hours of his evasion? That part of his odyssey seems to
have occurred as by miracle or divine protection. Now, if I'm nagging
about all these things is simply because this is drama--so I'm led to
think from the beginningand drama is the genre towards which we are
the least forgiving concerning the unrealistic or the unlikely. (In
thrillers like Capricorn One or The Sting we close our eyes to the same
things, as we understand the main purpose there is to thrill us).Other of the weakest elements in SR lies in some of its characters. I
have nothing to say about Andy or Red--as Freeman plays here again his
Ted to Eastwood's Munny anyway. Neither about Hadley which if he seems
a bit exaggerated in his wickedness doesn't seem unrealistic for
someone who has read Abbott's In the Belly of the Beast. But minor
characters are obviously used for emotional manipulation, specially the
rocker kid. About him, after Red's voice over says that "everyone liked
him"--what else we could do? (Anyway this character was put there just
to show us viewers that Andy was innocent after all, so he was safely
disposed of after that. Curious thing, I was comfortable with the idea
of leaving that kind of foggy. Uhh, you can take people out of the Code
but...). And the same for the situation with the Sisters, which is left
to degenerate, when all what Hadley had to do was to tell them to leave
Andy alone.But above all, great narrative, great plot development. 9/10.

******
29 March 2011
10
Probably one of the best movies I have ever seen. Its one of those
movies where you just sit and reflect for a while after the final
credits roll. Great plot, script, and acting. One of the best ever
made. When Andy escaped at the end and screwed the warden over, my
gosh, it does not get any better than that. It also has one of those
twists in it where you think that one thing is going to happen and the
completely opposite does. Near the end, when everyone thought that Andy
was going to commit suicide and we all thought that he was going to be
in the cell dead, he was gone, vanished. When the warden revealed the
whole in the wall hidden by the poster I don't remember felling better
for the outcome of a movie than I did at the end of this film.

******
27 March 2011
10
Shawshank Redemtion is the best film I've ever seen, I personally think
that they should make so many more unforgettable films like this
elsewhere in the world. Overall this inspirational motion picture is
definitely out of this world. In my opinion this Movie is
thought-provoking and it touches your sole in many ways.Andy Dufresne who was unlawfully sentenced to life in prison for the
murder of his wife and her lover, became great friends with 'Red' a
convict who was an influential inmate inside the Shawshank prison, they
became a surprising partnership inside Shawshank prison Night after
night, day after day, Andy tried to adapt to prison life, however he
realised he shouldn't be in this indescribable road to hell so thats
where his plans begin....

******
25 March 2011
10
Every time I watch The Shawshank Redemption it reinforces the fact that
it is my favorite movie of all time. But certainly as entertaining a
film that it is, being a personal favorite does not necessarily make it
a great film or dare I saythe greatest film ever made. But what then
makes a film great? First and foremost, if it sets out to entertain the
general public, it must do that (and Shawshank certainly does that).
Its pure entertainment value is essentially a stipulation in its
inclusion in the great "greatest movie" debate. The serious nature of
its central plot pointsa wrongly convicted murderer who assists the
corrupt warden as means to affect his own escapeis contrasted by some
truly funny scenes. Although by no means a comedy, the splendid
screenplay is wrought with witty dialog. There's nothing fancy about
this filmno special effects, spectacular scenery or even a bunch of
pretty women. No, its just the telling of a story, mostly through the
narration of Morgan Freeman's character, Red, that almost lulls viewers
into believing that nothing really interesting or important is going to
happen here. But after all of the subtle plot twists I think what makes
this film great for me is I feel like I'm actually sharing in Andy's
redemption. Now if that isn't what they teach in Film-making 101 then
they should just close up the classroom. Ultimately, there cannot be a
single motion picture that is the "greatest film of all time" because
as art, and in an art form as varied as cinema, greatness must be
measured by each individual. Greatness, as beauty, truly is in the eye
of the beholder. But in this beholder's eyes I think The Shawshank
Redemption is truly the greatest film I have ever seen.

******
24 March 2011
10
Oh Dear..If there would any criteria of rating this movie beyond 10/10
i could have gone further.such a wonderful movie that one could see it
in any year , any century. the movie starts with a story of infidelity
where husband,an investment banker by profession,Andy (Tim Robbins)
having intentions to kill his wife along with her boyfriend(though it
wasn't shown in the movie wheather he killed them or not)..and after
that the murder suit follow upon him where the Banker sentenced for two
life imprisonment.Andy sent to the notorious shawshank, where he encountered some of the
very insane guards and wardons, his fellow red (Morgan freeman) is one
of the guy he bonded the most and story goes on like that but by the
virtue of his professional skills, Andy got entry into the offices of
the jail. but the end is so beautiful and unexpected that one could
hardly imagine in his wildest thoughts..u got to see the movie for
that. acting wise Tim Robbins and Morgan freeman tops the list..such a
calm,superlative and memorable performances.. i love the most is the
punchline of the movie "Hope sets you free"

******
22 March 2011
10
This movie, in spite of several violent scenes, is well acted and has a
great plot line. The casting is excellent and the movie has moments of
brilliance and is overall an excellent movie. The ending is satisfying
and even though the characters are prisoners they have an air of
honesty and a desire to simply (a) accept responsibility for their
crime and (b) to be able to live a life of peace and pursue happiness.
Far too many times, in movies and on TV, men in prison are shown to be
soulless/corrupt/violent/without redeeming qualities and yet our
prisons are FULL of people who are INNOCENT of the crimes they are in
prison for and the cops/prosecutors are NOT always right and they are,
in many cases, as corrupt as the worst offenders. This movie is a
classic and has withstood the test of time. Take care and may God bless
you.

******
22 March 2011
10
The Shawshank Redemption, is without a doubt the greatest film the
world has ever come across. From the moment i sat down to watch this,
the mutual hype made me sceptical whether it will live up to my
expectations, but it could not have blown me away any more than it did.
Tim Robbins takes the leading role and in my opinion couldn't have done
a better job, along with Morgan Freeman who delivered a fine supporting
role. The compelling storyline, directing, casting and more
importantly, acting throughout the cast made this my favourite film
ever. I gave it 10 out of 10 because of this and out of the hundreds of
films i have rated, it was the only one with a perfect score. This film
is about as 'must watch' as it gets, and anyone who hasn't must do so
right away otherwise they are severely missing out.

******
19 March 2011
10
hi i'm 14 years old and this movie is my favourite film of all time.
everything about it is stunning, the set, the characters, the acting,
the story, the directing, the writing, the music - everything was
fantastic and complemented the point of the film.everyttime i watch it, i seem to feel cleansed and happy. a whole lot
of people would just say that it is a depressing and boring movie, but
when you watch it and understand the plot and watch it through to the
end the "redemption" makes you feel "redeemed".while i probably enjoy a casual simple movie (whether comedy or action
etc...) on a rainy day this movie is definitely my favourite. i
strongly recommend this to anyone looking for an inspirational
(although i'll admit it is a bit weird to be inspired by convicted
felons) movie with clever twists and ingenuity. a 10/10 for me

******
18 March 2011
10
This is now the 2,340th Review of this Title. However, I'm still
writing it because this movie deserves to be written about. It really
exceeds the 10/10 scale. An awe-inspiring story of hope, this is just
one of those movies that you know you still want to watch in 20 years.
The movie premise itself at first sight doesn't seem like it will be
all that interesting. However, from the first minutes, you realize the superior writing,
acting and cinematography unrivaled I would say by any other film I've
seen. Throughout the movie, I find myself constantly connected to the
characters, wishing that the warden would overcome his cold-hearted
nature and concede to let our antagonist, Andy free from the torment
that was The Shawshank Prison. I almost let out an audible sob when
Tommy was shot. If you're looking for something to bring you up, to give you hope,
you've come to the right place. This movie is probably the most
soul-touching piece of two and half hour film out there, encompassing
friendship, suffering, hope, and freedom. This movie is really what I believe that this should serve as the model
for Hollywood. It's about time that they learn that for a movie to be
good, it doesn't need excessive gore, or explosions on screen, or
special effects, or sex scenes or any of what comes with the modern-day
Hollywood production. This movie is pretty simple. Just men talking. If you haven't seen this movie yet, now the #1 movie on the IMDb leader
boards, you don't know what you're missing. A must see for anybody and
everybody of age. (10/10)

******
14 March 2011
10
Frank Dabaront is not a name that is known to everybody...He certainly
isn't the most popular director on the planet. Regardless, he has made
a film that has touched people all over the world. The film that is
brutal, yet astonishing: Shawshank Redemption.I first of all, wasn't surprised at all that this was the highest-rated
film on IMDb. It has every ingredient a film needs...Universe,
creation, acting, and a powerful storyline. The rare film that
extraordinarily grabbed me and never let go...Also the rare film that
exceeds in every aspect.The film is obviously believable too, Freeman and Robbins pull in extra
perfection to it. Freeman is a brilliant narrator, and he tells us the
plot like it was rehearsed a couple thousand times! Robbins is also
surprisingly great, he plays the (main) character with adorable
gratitude and unstoppable force. His performance is worth watching over
and over again...Overall, its not for everyone to see (like the impeccable Forrest
Gump), but it all shapes up with a powerful ending and a strong
message.

******
9 March 2011
10
Can a man find redemption if he truly repents for the crimes he'd
committed? Can the human spirit triumph even in the darkest of places,
like a prison? Is hope a dangerous thing? These are the questions you
will be asking yourself after watching this Fillet Mignon of a film
masterpiece. Based on the incredible writer Stephen King and directed
by the diamond in the rough film director Frank Darabont, the Shawshank
Redemption is one of the greatest movies of all time, in my opinion.
It's one of those movies that whenever it is on TV, I can't help but
watch it from start to finish.The story is narrated by the soothing voice of Morgan Freeman, named
Red. And he tells us of the time a new prisoner, Andy a former bank
executive convicted of murdering his wife and her lover, came to the
Shawshank Pennitentary. At first, Andy has a tough time adjusting to
prison life, even getting beaten up a few times by the fellow thugs.
But soon he finds his place doing the taxes of all the guards and the
warden.There are so many good things about this film, I can barely think of
all of them. The story in which it was based was indeed an enthralling
one, Frank Darabont directed it and did a great job, not to mention the
grade-A casting.I'm not sure what the main theme of this movie is, but if I had to
guess, it would be about hope. And that hope cannot escape anyone, even
those in positions where they feel like there is none. And that
redemption is available for any man.I rate this movie a 10. I never considered giving it anything less.

******
19 February 2011
10
Let me start with the basics...fantastic story...amazing
direction...great dialogues...groundbreaking performances...heart
aching soundtracks...and a priceless lesson in living...No movie probably can touch you more positively than Shawshank
Redemption...Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman would be just as in trouble
for this as Al Pacino had for Godfather. Just like Al is forever
remembered for his depiction of Don Corleone in Godftaher, both these
actors, who have had a long line of brilliant performances, would at
the end of the day, be remembered for their roles as Andy and Red. For
about two hours or so, every viewer would be transformed into an inmate
of the Shawshank Prison, share their lives, feel sorry for their
miseries and glow in their joys. It is a movie which has the rare
capability of making you smile and cry at the same time. It is probably the most underrated movie of all times. The reason i say
this is because, notwithstanding the fact that it is the number 1 in
IMDb's top 250, it is sad to see that its not one of the top grossing
movies of all time. But then again some movies are too good to be
enjoyed and favoured by everyone. It takes special kind of movie lovers
to enjoy a movie of the calibre of SR. To borrow the words of Morgan Freeman, some things are better left
unsaid. See the movie for yourself and if it doesn't make your heart
weep and ache at its beauty, then well, you're not just one of those
special kind I am afraid.

******
17 February 2011
10
Some people say that cinema art has one purpose. Awake all our senses
and lead us to it's own paths ..,well this movie does it very well
...is Art!!!!.... It's a picture about friendship , the value of life
and the importance of education ..... the point its to be free wherever
you are....some people are not in prison but live in fear for everyday
difficulties and lose all the courage they have about life but our
characters have the strength to feel free inside and catch their dream
outside the prison. This movie directed perfectly !!!! Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman saw to us their tremendous talent !!! . A must see !!!
p.s : is the best movie i have ever seen !!!

******
8 February 2011
10
I've watched a number of movies during the years. I'm not sure whether
that number is north of 500 but it's definitely close. No other movie
has had the effect that Shawshank Redemption has on me every time I
watch it.The movie describes the years in prison of Andy Dufresne(Tim Robbins),
a banker who is convicted for the murder of his wife. There he meets
Red(Morgan Freeman), another convicted felon, who -like most movies
featuring Morgan Freeman- is also the narrator of the movie.Throughout his years in prison, we watch Andy go from some prisoners'
boxing bag, to prison's librarian, to prison guards' personal banker.
We experience with him the pain, the frustration, the sorrow. Tim
Robbins gives a magnificent performance opposite Morgan Freeman's Red,
maybe the only role outshining Mandela in Invictus. I won't bother you with technical details about direction,
cinematography and art direction. The All-Time Best Movie place here in
IMDb is by it's own a testament of the excellence that is the Shawshank
Redemption. Few (if any) movies will provide the viewer with such a
feeling of catharsis by the end. I hope I haven't spoiled it. If you haven't already watched this masterpiece of a movie, rush to the
nearest DVD store. Every human being able of watching a movie should
watch this movie at least once.Cheers

******
7 February 2011
9
From the intro setting up the mood for the 1940s with If I didn't Care
that strangely feels like Bioshock or Fallout from the other era
defining themes such as the relevance of Rita Haywood from the 50s to
Tommy Williams emulating the James Dean Rock' n Roll character to set
the mood of the 60s. This is something that has not been addressed when
reviewing this movie, how it seamlessly transfer from era to era is
genius in itself. The camaraderie between Andy and Red is flawless and
the viewer truly believes that these two are the leaders of Shawshank
and are the best of friends. By leaders, just look at the scene where
Heywood is about to be slit by Brooks and Andy and Red are notified
right away to solve the problem; great scene symbolizing their
importance to the group. The only flaw which keeps it from being a
perfect 10 out 10 movie is that it suffers from the same stereotype
that prison movies are littered with, and that is the inclusion of
sodomites. I know that's what happens in prisons, but is just
disgusting and cringe worthy seeing this on screen; however Shawshank
Redemption implies what the Sisters do to Andy and never graphically
show it on screen and that is the saving grace. That is why it only
loses one point and not several, anyhow. The movie's message about hope
is more heavily implied near the end though, how Andy never loses hope
while Red is closer to being institutionalized. The line get busy
living or get busy dying always sends chills down my spine because of
its relevance when Andy says it when he knows that the system is
absolutely corrupt when his only witness that could get him a new trial
is killed so that Andy could keep laundering money for the warden.

******
31 January 2011
10
This movie is one of the best movies ever made. I remember when i was
watching it. I was feeling during the movie every emotion that you can
imagine. The cast, well you know the cast... they play their roles with
outstanding performance. The movie has some moments of awesomeness. Its
great. Its perfect. Scenes, photography, scenario, plot, things that
keeps your attention with intensity (and its not an action film), it
has everything. I recommend it without hesitation. An excellent
masterpiece that surely will be remembered as one of the greatest films
ever. If you haven't watched this one yet, do it. Stop reading this
review and go watch that movie!

******
26 January 2011
10
I didn't read all of these reviews, but I believe that nothing much is
rest to be said. When you see the number you may ask yourself: what can
I say and not to copy the words of other people? But when you watch
this movie over and over again, one thought never leaves you: being a
little, what ever it means mustn't stop you to grow and to know who do
you really are. Others may not recognize your work, maturing or growth,
according to this film. If nobody sees it, doesn't mean it's not worth.
Awareness might be hidden, and you just have to believe and hope. In
while you are living your "boring, unhappy and unfulfilled" life,
trying your best to survive, 'till the moment you wait so long. When
you achieve that, you need to imagine unwritten "Shawshank redemption
2" in which the main character (maybe you) is hardly trying to find
another reason to survive present "peaceful and quite" time. So, you
haven't got excuse not to watch this movie and to exclude yourself from
the large group of people, only because it's large. Don't be unique in
not watching it, but in revealing some other side of it and solving the
mystery of your own life. I am joining to the group of people who
simple love it.

******
24 January 2011
10
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sentenced life in prison for the murders
of his wife and her lover although he was not guilty of either one of
the crimes. Sent to Shawshank Prison to do hard time, Andy, a banker
has to learn to live life inside the prison's walls. He befriends Red
(Morgan Freeman) while they both embark on a journey that reveals many
things about themselves as well as each other. This is hands down one
of my favorite movies of all time. It is a story about two men who
withstand decades of harsh prison life while exposing the buoyancy of
the human spirit. The movie reveals the significance of dignity and
formality and also how knowledge and confidence can go a long way and
ultimately be a way to survival. It explores the depths of friendship,
forgiveness, and freedom.

******
18 January 2011
7
The Shawshank Redemption is a beautiful film with a perfect cast and a
wise plot. It had its good times, had entertainment and lead us to some
reflections about life. Sadly it had some predictable conversations and
seemed to be just another Morgan Freeman's movie. It dares to almost
offend our intelligence the fact that the prison officers didn't check
that poster carefully one single time in twenty years. And I have two
questions: was the American justice that weak back in 1994? Were the
condemned all smart and good people as this movie portrayed?If it deserves to be at 1st spot here? Maybe. If it became one of my
favorite movies? No, just a good watch.

******
17 January 2011
10
This is the greatest movie I have ever seen. The only movie that can
compete with this, in my opinion, is Forrest Gump. This movie is
absolutely fantastic. If you have not seen this movie, stop reading
now, and watch it. It has some of the best plot twists of any movie I
ever saw (spoilers), the biggest one perhaps being when they really
make it seem like Andy killed himself, but then it is revealed that he
escaped. That was the biggest "whoa" moment for me and it continued by
showing exactly how almost everything he had done over the past 19
years was a part of his elaborate escape plan. I can guarantee this
will be one of your favorites as soon as you finish watching it, that's
what happened for me. I love this movie, and I could watch it again and
again. This movie definitely deserves to be number one on IMDb, and I
have no idea why it isn't as highly praised by the critics as it is by
normal people. But that seems to happen a lot, doesn't it?

******
14 January 2011
10
He starts to get both other prisoners and guards on his side when he
offers to help one of the most notorious guards with a tax problem in
exchange for bottles of chilled beer for everyone in his work party.
From then on, Andy always seems to be working on one thing or another.
He improves the prison's tiny library, and helps those prisoners who
want to study. He also handles the guards' tax returns, and even helps
the swindling Warden (Bob Gunton) cook the books. Over the years, he
gains the respect of most of the other prisoners and guards. More
importantly, he never loses hope for the future  a hope he tries to
pass on to the other prisoners. He never stops believing in life's
possibilities, but to make the most of them he needs to be free.

******
13 January 2011
9
Competitor: Forrest Gump & Pulp Fiction. . The story sets in 1940's,
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted and sentenced to life
imprisonment, for the murder of his wife and her lover. . Morgan
Freeman is Ellis Boyd also known as Red, plays a fantastic role that
makes the movie even more impressive. Befriends Andy in prison and then
the 'adventure' begins... . This movie will keep you thrilled and
excited, you would not want to miss anything. Anything that bothers me
about this movie is THE ENDING. I do not want to spoil anything here
but you should know that this kinda ending is predictable and somehow
raises questions about the characters sex life. I am just saying. . . .
AND YES I AGREE THIS MOVIE SHOULD NOT BE NUMBER ONE IN THE IMDb TOP
250. THIS MOVIE IS GREAT BUT NOT THE BEST!!! NOT THAT I WANT TO
DISCOURAGE YOU FROM WATCHING IT! GO AHEAD WATCH IT AND LET ME KNOW WHAT
YOU THINK. . P.S. DO NOT just watch one movie and judge the
rest...watch them all!! ' My rating: [8.5/10]

******
9 January 2011
10
What more can be said about this film? It was a short story given a big
budget but flopped at the box office, likely thought of as just another
prison film. Then people began watching copies and by word-of-mouth the
characters, the plot, the sheer brilliance of the story grew so as it
became almost legend.Gripping, harrowing, horrific, and finally uplifting due to its totally
unexpected ending you may well find yourself appalled, laughing, sad,
angry and finally even shed some tears whilst watching this intelligent
and moving film. The ending is exceptional.A cinematic masterpiece, now enhanced by being available on BluRay and
well worth obtaining.

******
9 January 2011
10
In my book, 37927=24601. Both incredibly important numbers that happen
to be the prison numbers for both Andy Dufresne and Jean Val Jean,
respectively.Greatest movie ever made. A movie that makes you want to be a better
person. No movie has ever matched it, and no movie ever will.To quote Red: "I find I'm so excited, I can barely sit still or hold a
thought in my head. I think it's the excitement only a free man can
feel, a free man at the start of a long journey whose conclusion is
uncertain. I hope I can make it across the border. I hope to see my
friend and shake his hand. I hope the Pacific is as blue as it has been
in my dreams. I hope. "

******
7 January 2011
10
This is a film that is heavy on character and dialogue and delivers on
both. The performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are
outstanding, as are each of the supporting actors. This film was
adapted from a short story, 'Rita Hayworth and The Shawshank
Redemption,' written by Stephen King. Perhaps it is because it's
adapted from a short story as to why this works so well as there are
only minor changes and nothing essential is left out, leaving the film
makers with the ability to strengthen and stretch out the main focus,
which is the bond created by the two main characters. In my personal
opinion I would say this film is one of the most successful book to
script adaptations in film history. The direction is brilliant in the
way it is almost not noticeable as it relies on the actors and their
interactions with each other to keep the audience interested.
Cinematography is worth a mention also as each shot is captured
beautifully. In summary, Shawshank is a must see and a well deserved
film classic.

******
7 January 2011
10
The Shawshank Redemption {1994)Tag Line: Fear Can Hold You Prisoner, Hope Can Set You FreeDirector : Frank Darabont. Cast : Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman.This movie is considered to be one of the best movies ever made.
Unfortunately, this movie was released in 1994, a year dominated by1. Forrest Gump "A 6 Oscar Winner Romantic-Drama directed by 'Robert Jemeckis' starring
one of the finest actors ever,'Tom Hanks' who undoubtedly deserved the
Oscar. This film still stands in the list of top 50 Highest Grossing
Movies with over $650million worldwide gross....* This is my all time favorite, i must say, being a big fan of Tom
Hanks :D " -----------2. Pulp Fiction"An Independent Crime-Drama directed by one of the best
Screenplay/Script Writer, Quentin Tarantino who got Oscar in the Best
Original Screenplay category.* I still cant see much innovative screenplay than this flick."
-----------3. The Lion King"An Animated feature film by Disney Pictures, a major financial success
with gross revenue of over $750million and stands as the Highest
Grossing 2D animation film of all-time." -----------Due to the heavy financial success of the above three flicks, our
topic, The Shawshank Redemption[1994] was unnoticed on its release and
became a huge financial disaster. But gained good 'Reviews'(for which a
lot of viewers don't care for}. The film gained 7 Oscar/Academy
Nominations, but hasn't one any.* This movie is Undoubtedly 'The Greatest Movie' to have not won an
Oscar.* I cant say that, this is my most favorite, but definitely is one of
my Top Favorites.* I think that this movie deserved 2 Oscars, one for The Best Picture
of 1994 and another for Best Director.PS : If you cant understand this note or you think that this is just
some sh*t, just try and watch the movie once. Then, you'll definitely
agree with me. :)

******
3 January 2011
10
Morgan Freeman is fantastic in this film as he guides Tim Robbins
through his 20+ years at Shawshank Prison. This movie takes you through
many different emotions. Everything that takes place in the prison
makes me definitely not want to ever go to prison! Tim Robbins gives a superb performance as Andy Dufrense an innocent man
sent to a very vengeful prison. If you have never seen this film, you
will be amazed by everything that happens. Great ending by the way.The warden played by Bob Gunton is the perfect 2-faced bible-toting,
under the counter dealing bad-guy in a position of power over others.
Somehow this movie summed up life over the last fifty or so years
looking back on who was in power running the country and big business.

******
2 January 2011
10
Incredible to think that, like "It's A Wonderful Life", this film did
not do well when it was released. The name, plus the fact it is a
prison movie, plus the heavyweight tag-line, just didn't capture
people's imagination. With its release on video and word-of-mouth,
something changed, and now it is widely considered one of the greatest
films of all time.The reason is simple: from start to finish, "The Shawshank Redemption"
is about as close to perfect as a film like this comes. The best
adaption Frank Darabont has made from a Stephen King story, despite a
couple of liberties taken (most notably, Red is not a black American,
but a white Irishman in King's original), the whole thing works so
well, you would not change a single detail! It is crafted impeccably;
every scene is a masterpiece, and the performance from every single
person involved is spot-on. An epic tale that works on any level you
want it to; a simple prison drama, an examination of political
corruption, a religious allegory, and so much in between; like "Lord Of
The Rings", the metaphor is practically endless.Perhaps it is because of this fact that so many people return to this
film; it doesn't matter what time of life you see it, what you are
going through, or how you choose to accept the film, it will always
offer you something. That really is quite special. A story of hope that
can be genuinely life-changing, and life-affirming. A gem of a movie

******
30 December 2010
10
"You know the funny thing is, outside, I was an honest man. I had to
get into prison to become a crook" It is lines like this, that can
effortlessly just make me shut my mouth, and marvel at this work of
art. Morgan Freeman plays by far the most under-appreciated supporting
roles in film history, and deserved the Oscar in my opinion (just watch
the fifteen minutes after his prison sentence, particularly in the end,
at Buxton, (I am being very subtle so I don't spoil anything!) and you
will know what I am talking about). Take nothing away from Tim Robbins;
sometimes, that one acting performance defines a legend. And honestly,
if you are reading this review without having watched the movie yet,
...well, Go get it!! As far as rating goes, I would say "Let all other
ratings be relative to Shawshank"!

******
28 December 2010
10
"Most of the reviews would contain.."the best movie ever", but that
doesn't matter, what matters more is 'hope', hope for this movie to be
different than rest of the movies..and i'am sure that after watching
this masterpiece, you would sit and smile for a moment and the
narration of Morgan Freeman would be in your minds for a long long
time. Some movies such as the 'Shawshank Redemption' can possibly
change your way of doing..at first while watching the trailer and the
rest, you would begin to think that this movie has no action, comedy or
whatsoever that would interest you, but the most interesting part of
the movie is the 'movie itself'. The plot, the story, the acting,
characters and everything would surely blow your mind and every time
you watch this movie, you would feel more good and faith. In a
nutshell, one of the best movie ever made and a must watch for all of
us.."

******
7 December 2010
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a film telling that a wealthy banker, who's
been wrongly prisoned for many years for being suspected of murdering
his own wife, finally takes his revenge and redemption with the HOPE
that never dies in his heart and his wisdom. The story's based upon
Stephen King's novel of the similar name. But there are certain amount
of differences.When it comes to the question "why is it so excellent?", some may say
that it's got a so-called great story and unpredictable twist near the
end, but I don't take it that way. The plot in my opinion is average in
terms of complexity and twists. Actually the twist is predictable from
the very start where the film itself already gave you an obvious hint.
But in terms of developing and building up the characters, the story's
magnificent, while it becomes more epic in this adaption due to the
differences from the book. There're some scenes that shock the audience
like deaths of certain characters, which didn't happen in the original
book. These scenes not only helped render a more hopeless and crueler
world than that in the novel, but also built up Andy's and Redd's
strong personalities with no doubt.The friendship between the two main characters is a highlight too.
What's especially mentioning is that the film doesn't even have a
single female character despite a very tiny one at the beginning, who
didn't even say a word by the way... This separates it from other
mindless Hollywood films which always tend to show women's charm
totally. Friendship is the most cherished thing along with "hope" here
in this story, and sometimes friendship pulls us back into form and
faith when we're lost - so does this movie!The acting and score are also beyond awesome, accompanied by well-
arranged cinematography. Morgan Freeman's narration makes it even more
special as it lets you see through the deeper thoughts of characters.
At the meantime, the balance of emotion is well controlled so it never
gets contrived.Some people who don't like the film either say the idea it's trying to
teach us is great but falls simple and obvious, or think the scenes
like Mozart's music scene is exaggerating. But I think neither of them
makes sense, because great films use extraordinary events to teach you
something, and that's what we called emphasis. As for that music scene,
people longly prisoned in a hopeless place can be easily touched by the
things that we, normal people can get easily, since for them, it's not
easy to get.So, this is an honest film that doesn't pretend to be anything hard to
understand while having its own depth, about friendship, hope and the
spirit of never giving up when life gets tough. It's a must-see for
everyone who loves great movies.

******
7 December 2010
10
In a generation that has movies generated as a means to market
soundtracks, action figures, or fast food meal toys, this 1994 film
stands on its own because of the story, the acting and the film
editing, Taking place over a nineteen year span, from 1947 to 1966, and
the setting in an Ohio prison known for its toughness and discipline,
the viewer is taken over the two decades in a voice over narration by
one of the film's pivotal characters, Red. Morgan Freeman plays Red, an
inmate that has the knack of acquiring items akin to the staff sergeant
in any war movie. While Morgan Freeman is not necessarily a brilliant
actor, he is brilliantly cast in this role and no one can dispute his
comforting and trademark voice. Freeman walks through the events of the
movie with the quiet and sincere voice, capturing the audience as a
grandfather rocking in a chair on the front porch sipping lemonade
would capture a young boy's unwavering attention as he speaks slowly,
thoughtfully, and compassionately. Casting Freeman as Red is perhaps
one of the director's best moves, because if the audience doesn't like
and trust Red, the movie doesn't work. Freeman, or Red, tells us of
Andy Dufresne arrival at the prison, how he stood out as a soft, unfit
for prison life convict, sentenced for the murder of his wife and her
lover. The most haunting scene in the movie comes that night as the
newly arrived inmates become accustomed to their circumstances and fair
game to the other inmates' entertainment. Red speaks how he has bet
Andy, played by Tim Robbins, won't make it through the night without
breaking down. Andy does and the viewing audience gets a glimpse, along
with Red, into the strength you can gain from inner peace, focus, and
reflection. Red and Andy form a two decade friendship and along the
way, Red learns how to live again, and that while you accept
circumstances in life, you never surrender hope or sense of who you
are. Andy heals over the years, through Red's friendship, although it
is clear Andy is a quiet and private man. As the audience watches Tim
Robbins' character, it is clear the range of his acting is on display.
Robbins has appeared in many films and the roles vary in personalities
and depth, yet movie goers will walk away thinking about the movie
character, not the actor. This is a true testament to acting skill
sets, people don't talk about Tim Robbins in this film, instead they
talk about Andy Dufresne. The audience witnesses corruption in the
prison system, the abuse of guards, murder of inmates, and are exposed
to Andy maintaining his true self by establishing a library, GED
program, and setting up an accounting system doing the prison guards'
tax returns. The latter practice moves him into the warden's office
where he sets up a phony id and laundries money for the warden's ill
gotten gains. The movie's turning point comes when an inmate Andy has
helped obtain his high school diploma discovers he once shared a prison
cell with the man that really committed the murders Andy was convicted
of. Until this point in the movie, the audience didn't know for certain
whether Andy committed the murders or not, and the characters in the
movie just assumed he was guilty as they were. A turn of events has
Andy reassessing he circumstances and gives the best quote in the
movie, "I guess you have to get busy dying or get busy living," as he
has the most heart filled conversation with Red in the nineteen years
they have been friends. The movie then plays out with a low key ending
which is open ended, and just as grandfather's soothing voice would end
a story perfectly, so does Freeman. The film's editing has this picture
in an almost black and white, using a limited color palate of grays,
blues, browns and such to cause the setting to create a subdued
atmosphere. The director has smartly made the setting a background by
keeping it simple, sparse and not a focus of the plot. By use of a
simplistic setting, limited colors, lighting, and selected camera
angles the director forces the audience to focus on the actors and the
plot instead of the use of computer enhanced graphics, unrealistic
action scenes or too much skin being revealed with little to do with
the storyline. This film is already a classic and clearly deserves a
place in everyone's DVD collection, on the same shelf as The Godfather,
Dead Poets' Society, and Clint Eastwood's Unforgiven.

******
6 December 2010
8
This movie for me was a really great drama. Although some people would
act as though this freaking movie was genius, which in my opinion is a
little bit over rated. Tim Robbins does do a great job in seeming as
though hes just a good guy, and morgan freeman, well hes just morgan
freeman in another role. The movie is a tad bit long and the action is
none. But the acting is great and the ending is to pretty great. I
liked this movie a lot but I did not finish this movie thinking that it
was one of the best films of all time, like I was led to believe. All
in all it was a great film that I give an 8 or just below that, like a
7.9. So as long as you got the bong out and some munchies and your not
a punk kid with A.D.D. which by the way I have myself. You should
definitely like this one. Two Blunts up.

******
3 December 2010
9
This is, by far, one of the best movies I've ever seen. It's simply
moving. Incredbly perfect in all the aspects. The story is
unbelievable, with great actors and a director who really knew how to
make the story work.Andy Dufresne really got the bad luck when he was incriminated for the
murder of his wife and her lover. He had all the clues against him, and
not a really convincing alibi. He made some friends in the prison,
including his best friend, the guy who could get things("Red"), and the
director of the prison. Using his experience as a former banker, he
helped the director of the prison to make lots of money corruptly.He helped the director in exchange for some favors. But the director
didn't helped him when he most needed him, and, to make it worse, he
killed the only witness who knew the guy that had really killed Andy's
wife and her lover.What anybody expected is the end of this story, which I wont give away.
I can only say that the hope Andy had for things to work out had
materialized, and the good guys lived happy forever.Masterpiece.

******
2 December 2010
10
This is one of the few films to which I had such an initial reaction.
Most films are not truly appreciated until a second viewing, however I
was blown away by this film and it still stands as one of my favorite
films of all time. The central relationship of Andy and 'Red' is one of
the main reasons why this film is so good. I don't understand how
anyone could find this disappointing. The cast was perfect, especially
Tim Robbins who I feel didn't get enough credit for his role as Andy.
Morgan Freeman, who was also terrific got most of the praise for his
role. Without knocking him, I feel that Tim Robbins was the star of the
film and his character was completely believable. All of actors did a
great job and you feel emotionally engaged with them in contrast with
many Hollywood 'Blockbusters' who are like robots!

******
29 November 2010
10
oh man !! what a movie .. i cant stop my fingers to write about this
movie . you watch it and watch it again and it gets better to you . the
whole movie has a strong believe on HOPE .its clearly states a message
that one can stand strong to his hopes . sometimes it takes time to
complete but have a strong believe and patience . you cannot judge what
is going on and whats going next . no action , no fighting ,no heroic
sequence . A simple story of a prison with a rock solid , output ,which
surprise you for sure. A story of a prisoners who gives you a lot of
emotions . full of heart touching moment , some joyful moments and some
surprising moment

******
22 November 2010
10
Last year on my birthday about six friends and I went to an Italian
restaurant and had some wine and pizza. We started playing a game where
everyone had to say their five favorite movies. Every single person
listed Shawshank Redemption as one of their favorite movies. One person
a was a lawyer, one a banker, one a physical therapist, one a writer,
and one an actress and they all love the movie. Why is this? What is it
about Shawshank Redemption that is so widely loved? I think it's
because of the friendship between Andy and Red, for one. For another,
you really care for Andy and root for him to get out, and then he
surprises you with his gentleness and ingenuity. For another, the music
is wonderful. For another, I think the movie is about humanity, really.
How do we keep our humanity amidst terrible inhumanity? Through art,
through music, through appreciation of beauty as well as love for
mankind.

******
17 November 2010
10
OH MY GOD!!! Such an amazing film! It's nice to know that Stephen King
can do more than stories about Evil Spirits killing things. This film
is perhaps on of the greatest films ever made! It is a movie about
truth, justice, bravery, and prison rape (what more can one ask for!)
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman make a perfect match for this film, and
despite one or two moments of slow tension between Robbins and everyone
else in the film, it is very deep, powerful,thought provoking, jaw
dropping, eyes widening, and spine chilling from beginning to end. The only thing I don't understand is "WHERE ARE THE WOMEN!?" This film
is 99.9999999...9999% men and only 0.0000000...0001% women (at the very
beginning having sex) but that is seriously the only complaint one can
make about this film, other than the fact that it is long and
depressing. The ending is down right perfect, and I had found myself in awe when I
saw Andy (Tim Robbins) crawl through a 500 yard sewage pipe only to
come out the other side a free man. What makes me curious about the
film is why haven't people noticed that he was carving a hole behind
the posters? He had changed them occasionally, there must have been
some time when someone walked by and noticed a hole in the wall. The film's realism sucks you in like a vacuum cleaner to the point
where you feel like you are a prisoner in Shawshank just chilling with
Freeman and the gang of prisoner who bet on which prisoner is gonna cry
first.

******
13 November 2010
10
The Shawshank Redemption really deserves the number one spot here on
IMDb Top 250. This movie is so powerful and has to be in the top five
best movies I have ever seen. This and Schindler's List were two movies
I have seen in the past few days for the first time. I should have
watched them eons ago.This is about some guy who is wrongfully sent to prison for the murders
of his ex wife and her lover. While at prison, he befriends a black
prisoner who's been there forever. While their friendship lasts, he
makes changes to the prison society.The acting is powerful. The chemistry between Morgan Freeman and Tim
Robbins is just marvelous. Morgan Freeman is my favorite actor of all
time and I'm starting to like Tim Robbins more and more.I can't believe this movie didn't take home any Oscars. I thought
Forrest Gump is a very good movie and I haven't seen Pulp Fiction yet
but this movie beats them all.Overall, this is a fantastic film. I was moved by the characters. This
movie also have several twists so beware of that. I rate this movie
10/10.

******
13 November 2010
9
An awesome movie... a must watch for every Cinema lover. If you haven't
seen this movie you have missed one of the top movies in the last 20
years. One of the all-time best films ever.Robbins plays Andy Dufresne (a banker wrongly convicted of slaying his
wife and her lover) with such perfection, you become convinced of not
only the role of this protagonist, but the nature of his character. It
is his unquestionable performance that ultimately leads us to be
surprised by the changes in the character in the last third of the
film. The changes are smart, clear and reasonable, but like real life,
they are surprising. This is Robbin's best acting ever.Morgan Freeman plays an inmate in the Shawshank prison that eventually
befriends Andy and is the only one to gain insight into the real
motivations of his friend.A true master piece.

******
8 November 2010
10
There are already excellent 2,296 review for this movie. So Why I need
to add one to it? See the question? "need..", yes my friends I need to
say how excellent this movie is. And how "sticky" it to your heart and
mind. This Movie surely is one of the few movie that can caught your
attention from the very beginning and never let your eyes go from the
screen.Cause from deep in my heart, I think everybody must see this movie.
It's cover many aspect in our lives and is packed with beautiful
picture and dialog.Morgan Freeman got a special place in my heart since I saw this movie.
HIs performance and narrating was give the "lethal" touch to this
movie.Tim Robbins was perfect for the role and so the other cast. Thanks for
Mr Darabont for doing great job adapted Stephen King's short story.Thank You all for this great movie. You guys make life more beautiful

******
8 November 2010
9
The Shawshank Redemption is easily one of the best movies ever made.It
is a simple yet powerful story that really touches your heart. The
strength of this movie lies in the fact that the director does not use
anything flashy to entice the viewers in this movie. The music by
Thomas Newman adds depth and character to the movie and certainly
enhances the overall appeal of the movie. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman prove that good acting trumps over everything else. Frank
Darabont also deserves a lot of credit for his direction. It does not
feel that this is his first movie. The cinematography of this movie is
also excellent and Roger Deakins has done a wonderful job. The biggest
strength of this movie is that it tells us to be brave in adverse times
and not lose hope even in bad times. We can learn a valuable lesson
from this movie and also realize the value of patience. Anyone who has
seen this movie will agree with me and most of the people will love to
see The Shawshank Redemption again.

******
1 November 2010
10
¨Remember Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things and no
good thing ever dies. ¨ An uplifting and inspiring movie that reminds
us that hope is what keeps us going during difficult situations. The
movie ranks at number one in the top IMDb list and it comes as no
surprise because many people rank this movie among their all-time
favorite. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins give an excellent performance
in this film directed by Frank Darabont and which is based on Stephen
King's short story ¨Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption.¨ It
received 7 Oscar nominations in 1995 including Best Picture, but lost
to Forrest Gump. Freeman is probably the best actor when it comes to
narrating a story and this is one of his greatest roles as he
introduces us to Robbins's character, Andy Dufresne. Andy is a banker
who has been accused of murdering his wife and her lover and is
sentenced to prison for life. In Shawshank prison Andy befriends Red
(Morgan Freeman) who serves as the provider in jail because he can get
just about anything you ask, yes even Rita Hayworth. The prison is run
by Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) with a stern hand, and the prison guards
treat the prisoners very violently. Despite how unjust life has been
towards Andy he never losses hope because as he puts it ¨You either get
busy living or you get busy dying.¨ There is a very positive message we
can learn from this movie and if you are among the few that haven't
seen it yet then I absolutely recommend this as a must see film! You
won't regret it.http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/

******
31 October 2010
8
The Shawshank Redemption is simply one of the most emotionally strong
movies made, Even Though it's not Divine, But The movie is still very
powerful and interesting. The Cast is very Strong and Believable. Tim
Robbins as Andy and Morgan Freeman as Red are just perfect.Bob Gunton
as Warden Norton also did a great job. Like most of the movies created
from Stephen Kings creativity this too is a great piece of gem. The
Direction is one of the strongest of the 90s and the movie itself is
has become the pride of the 90s era. All though the movie has many
flaws but they are not really noticeable and does not really bother
you. The movie is not the greatest you will see, but i can assure that
its a movie worth watching for sure.

******
14 October 2010
10
When I was seen the movie at the first time, I didn't really get the
message of the movie. It's was so slow, but it didn't put me to sleep.
I didn't know how the whole story would go to an end. I still able to
enjoy it. I made myself to see it again, and finally I understood why
it had so hight rate on IMDb. The movie started with Andy. A bank director, whom was sued for killed
his wife and a man. Police fought exhibit to charge him for committed a
murder. Andy was sent to jail for lifetime. In prison Andy met Red and
they learned each other and became friendly. Red was a black man. He
had been in prison almost 20 years at the time Andy came.Inside Andy always wanted to free himself out of the prison. It wasn't
him, whom committed that horrible murder. I fell sorry for Andy. He
paid his life for someone else, but nobody believed, he was innocently.
What I was so surprised, Andy on the first time at the prison had
planned to get out. Hope always inside him. That gave him strong to
keep his plan to 20 years. And finally he was out of the prison.Red was different. He admitted, he was a murder when he was young. He
apologised for what he did and wished to be a free man just like a
bird. But every time he had a conversation with the whole manager, he
always got denied. It's made him to feel hopeless. At the last time Red
almost gave up all the hope. He didn't want to waste his time anymore.
His speech was so amazing, fully emotion. Red just wished to go back at
the time when he committed a horrible crime. He wanted to tell the kid,
that what he did was so wrong. But he coundn't, he didn't have a
miracle to do so. This time he got approved.What I learned about this movie was Hope and Friendship. Like Andy said
"Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of thing, and no good thing ever
died". He right, if we gave up hope, would we have a future?

******
13 October 2010
10
this is one of Steven kings greatest movies ever i have watched this
over 50 times in the last 15 years i know that Steven king is well
known for his horror movies i would say that even though this is not a
horror it is better than all of his horror movies. i am a big fan of
Steven king so i am Rather amazed by the way he did the shaw-shank, at
first i did not think that it was a Steven king movie but when i got a
box set of Steven king movie for my 15th birthday an saw that it was in
there i realised why it was so good i would recommend this to any1. but
as a huge movie buff i watch a lot of movies.i became a big fan of
Steven king when i saw Carrie. i think that Steven king has a great
imagination and also puts a lot of effort into his work. the shaw-shank
was a masterpiece for the way he bet raid the warden as a sadistic
person. the way he used Andy as a smart but cunning inmate was amazing.

******
19 September 2010
10
Shawshank Redemption is a story about freedom, justice, and hope. The
movie stars Morgan Freeman as Ellis "Red" Redding, Tim Robbins as Andy
DuFresne, Bob Gunton as Warden Norton and Clancy Brown as Captain Byron
Hadley. As the movie starts off, Andy, who is a young, successful
banker, was on trail for the murder of his wife and her lover, a golf
pro. Throughout the trial and the entire movie, Andy declares his
innocence. Andy was sent to Shawshank Prison, where he is expected to
live out the rest of his days. Andy met and befriends Red; a man known
for getting things into the prison from the outside; after he needed a
rock hammer for sculpting rocks. During their conversation, Red gives
Andy some sound advice and thus starts their relationship. During a
work release program, Andy steps out on a limb and offers sound
financial advice to Hadley. And from that day on, Andy's life was
forever changed. The theme of this movie was freedom and hope. Freedom
and hope in a dark place like prison is hard to see. However, being in
prison didn't change the spirit of Andy. Andy's poise and demeanor
never changed. He strolled around the yard like he was a free man.
According to Red, Andy had an invisible coat on that shielded him from
the woes of prison. Life was about something bigger and better, even if
you are in prison. Never giving up and never stop dreaming. Brooks,
played by James Whitmore, was an example of a person that gave up his
freedom and hope. Upon the determination that he would be released, he
panicked and tried to find a way to stay in prison. He knew that life
outside of prison would be different. Brooks just didn't see any hope
in true freedom. This movie reminds me of the movie, Freedom Writers.
No matter how bad or how negative the situation, there is a glimmer of
hope somewhere. It is remarkable how a teacher of an inner city school
teaches kids to look for the good things through writing, despite what
happens outside that classroom. Both movies define how to beat the
odds. Sound was a keen sense of theme in this movie. The movie had a
voice-over narration of Red. There are several other examples in this
movie where sound and music bring relevance to the theme. When the
movie starts off, Andy is sitting in the car and the song playing is
about love and how he cares for his wife despite the news she has just
given him. It shows that Andy had hope that their relationship can be
mended. The squawk of Jake, the bird, has importance on the theme.
Freedom to him was new, just as it was to Brooks. Another example is
the song Andy selected to play on the PA system. It gave the prisoners
a sense of freedom and hope. It took them beyond the prison walls, if
only for a few moments. Andy referred to music as something the prison
can't take away from him. It was hope. Another technique used to
support the theme was the lighting and angling of the camera. After
Hadley paid up on his end of the deal, the glow and ambiance that came
off Andy was priceless. He glowed and basked in the ability to be
normal again. The director used high-key lighting in this shot. The
angle of the camera as it focused in on Red when he discussed the
seriousness of hope and what wild dreams will get up support the theme.
It was an extreme close-up. The camera seems to draw narrower and
narrower on Red like he was describing hope in prison. This action of
the camera reflected hope. The scene in the river and during the storm
used some environmental effects and lights to support the theme.
Another scene was the brightness of the ocean and beach when Red got
off the bus. It was so bright and crisp. The scene showed Red's reason
to stay hopeful, be free, and to try to live again. This movie is a
classic. It tells of corruption and issues of freedom in a prison
system. Most lose hope and conform to the ways of prison life. Just
because you are in prison for life doesn't mean you have to give prison
your life. Will Andy ever get redemption and get to tell his story?
Will anyone ever believe him? Hope can only go so far.

******
11 August 2010
8
I'm just curious and interested in taking a poll here since just about
everyone (or at least a lot of people that I know of) keeps on
insisting that original written works are "always better" than their
actual on-screen adaptions. But, seeing as how this is currently IMDb's
#1 rated film of all-time...As for myself, I have not seen the movie nor read the book, and so I
have no opinion on the matter; I'm merely challenging the
aforementioned statement based on what other people (who have both read
the book and seen the movie adaption) think. I'm just curious and
interested in taking a poll here since just about everyone (or at least
a lot of people that I know of) keeps on insisting that original
written works are "always better" than their actual on-screen
adaptions. But, seeing as how this is currently IMDb's #1 rated film of
all-time...As for myself, I have not seen the movie nor read the book, and so I
have no opinion on the matter; I'm merely challenging the
aforementioned statement based on what other people (who have both read
the book and seen the movie adaption) think.

******
30 July 2010
10
I only watched this movie a week ago and it is already won of my
favorite movies. And Stephen king is my favorite writer and this is one
of if not the best stories he ever wrote. And it was not even a novel
it was one of the stories in different seasons as well as stand by me
and apt pupil. my favorite quotation is Red, I do believe you're
talking out of your ass it is a funny quotation. I would recommend this
movie to all of my friends and family.10 out of ten for this movie. I
wanted to watch it over and over again. So this is my first review so i
think i made a good choice for my first review. angry ants first
review.

******
29 July 2010
10
The Shawshank Redemption begins with the hero of this story, Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins) being convicted of murder, and sent to Shawshank
prison. While there Andy meets a man who is a very longtime convict,
named Red (Morgan Freeman). With the help of his new friend, Andy will
change Shawshank prison in a way that no one will see coming.I was absolutely shocked when I first saw this movie. At first I had no
idea what to even say about it I thought it was so good. The Shawshank
Redemption is in my opinion not only one of my favorite films of all
time, but one of the greatest of all time. Tim Robbins delivers one of
the best performances of his career, and was probably deserving of an
Oscar nomination, along with Morgan Freeman who had an amazingly
powerful performance as well. Overall The Shawshank Redemption is one
of my favorite, if not my favorite, movies of all time. It is what I
believe to be Frank Darabont's masterpiece.

******
19 July 2010
10
I want to start out by letting everyone know: I read Rita Hayworth and
The Shawshank Redemption first, this may change the views I have
towards the film (though not by much, but we'll get to that later).Shawshank Redemption is by far the best emotional roller-coaster that
I've ever been on. I laughed some, I cried some, and I felt a genuine
love for the characters and their struggle. In some ways, I want to say
this is the greatest film ever but then I think about it, it's not the
greatest film. There is a lot about it that makes it fantastic, some
elements have the potential to be "The greatest". Here's the thing
though: it's not the greatest movie I've ever seen, I just can't find
anything that I dislike about it. This may not make a whole lot of
sense, but think of it this way: for a very long time my favorite movie
was Pulp Fiction (Tarantino), the raw feeling I got after watching Pulp
was so new to me that I couldn't help but stand up and say "That was
the greatest movie I've ever seen." Immediately my friend disagreed
with me, but Pulp just worked for me. I watched Shawshank with this
same friend, and we had a discussion about how we felt about it. I
didn't feel the raw emotion that I felt after Pulp, he agreed, but I
also told him I thought it was excellent, he agreed. What he told me
after that was: "You know, I can see how it's the number 1 movie on
IMDb, there's almost nothing to complain about, so there are fewer
people who are going to hate it." He was absolutely right, there's just
nothing to complain about.Now to the cast: Robbins and Freeman play a fantastic duo, (Freeman was
a great choice for Red, even though Red is described as Irish, for
real, in the novella) and like always Freeman plays his best. I'm not
too acquainted with Robbins, but he did everything right, and he made
Andy Dufrense a likable, but mysterious and distant character that
Dufrense is. Freeman plays Red fantastically, flat out amazing, the
nonchalance and joking nature of Red is captured perfectly by Freeman.
The rest of the cast does very well, especially James Whitmore, who
plays Brooks, the oldest convict in Shawshank State Prison. His role is
one of the few in all of history that's brought me to tears.Seeing how there's no action, there's not much to talk about in the
effects department, so I'll move on, straight to the story. I have a
theory that Stephen King is not a good writer, at least I don't think
so, but he is a fantastic storyteller. Shawshank is no different, the
plot unfolds well, few details are missed, and the pace is perfect: not
too fast, not too slow. I think a lot of the credit there goes to
Darabont though, he did a fantastic job bringing an often under looked
Stephen King novella to life, and I have no complaints on his work.In my opinion there's not a whole lot to say regarding this film, it's
fantastic, but you have to watch it to understand why. So, pick this
one up, I think this a movie with a broad base, which is very hard to
dislike, no matter if you turn your mind off and enjoy (it's still
followable) or if you like to think about every detail. I highly
recommend it.

******
20 June 2010
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie about two best friends finding hope
in their condemned lives. Andy is a banker who was wrongly convicted of
killing his wife. His wife was cheating on him and murdered during her
affair. Andy befriends Red a fellow inmate. During their time in prison
together they become best of friends. They work through their hardships
together. Throughout their story this group of inmates lives an
unordinary prison life. This is shown from drinking beer while tarring
the roof to doing the officers taxes. This is a remarkable story of the
ups and downs of prison life and the new people they become. Andy
states that in his free life he was a law abiding man, but he had to
come to jail to become a criminal. This is commented on when he begins
laundering money for the warden. Towards the end the camera shows Andy
slumped on the ground leaning up against the prison, which is very
neat. This view is from far away up above and gives the feeling of Andy
being rather small. This is an amazing angle as it helps show how he is
confused about escaping because he will miss his friends. The lighting
throughout this movie allows us to see everything appropriately, but
helps to set the mood of each scene. This can be seen when Andy is in
the movie room about to be attacked the lighting is very dark. This is
just one example of the many great lighting choices. This has been my
favorite movie for a long time. This movie allows the viewer to look
into the men's hearts and minds. Perhaps one of the classic themes to
this movie is the narration throughout the movie that is performed by
Morgan Freeman. I believe it is clear how great this movie is as it is
ranked #1 on IMDb for all time movies. This movie will always be one of
the greats, and will withstand the test of time.

******
10 June 2010
10
I recently saw this film at home and was hooked right into the movie.
The Shaw shank Redemption was one of the greatest movies i have ever
seen and i am glad they did not make a sequel or it probably would have
been a let down. this was very emotional and some scenes are hard to
watch such has the raping scenes but also there was a lot of emotion
between Andy Dufresne and red becoming friends and trying to live in
this prison.it was very realistic in how prison life is hard and what
it does to you after so many years. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are
great in there roles. the ending where red goes and meets Andy in
Mexico on the boat made the movie even better because it does not leave
me with a feeling of emotional and sad feeling but emotional and happy
feeling of friends meeting up again after a period of time and after
going threw so much in prison. this movie was great and i recommend it
to every one who likes to watch good films. my rating: 10/10.

******
22 May 2010
10
It's no surprise as to why this film tops the list. Morgan Freeman
gives the performance of a lifetime and everyone will agree that he was
robbed of a lot of awards that he deserved. Frank Darabont took a huge
risk in putting a well used and clichéd idea to the screen and did what
no director could ever do. He made the movie better than the book.I
first watched the shawshank redemption in 2004 (10 years after it first
came out) and remember myself being so intrigued and moved by a movie.
I have never felt this much enthusiasm about a film before. It is
without a doubt, the best motion picture of all time and if had been
released now instead of 1994 I reckon it could have beaten Avatar and
The hurt locker at the Oscars.10 out of 10 for the movie, the director and the actors who gave
heartbreaking and moving performances, my hat goes off to them.

******
20 May 2010
9
I had seen this movie quite a few years back, but still i vividly
remember each and every dialogue,every character,every scene and even
the background theme associated with every scene .The very name
"shawshank" sends a chill down my spine.I was so deeply moved by the
movie that it made my eyes feel watery for almost a week.The haunting
soundtrack kept on lingering on mind and my urge to watch the movie
resurfaced every now and then.***Spoilers ahead*** It's a poignant tale of an innocent man (banker) wrongfully convicted
for committing a crime of passion (killing his wife and her lover).When
he is sent to jail (Shawshank prison)for the aforementioned reason,he
develops a special bond with a jail mate "Red" ( played by Morgan
Freeman) supposedly the only guilty one at Shawshank.During his time in
prison he comes across many harsh realities such as the dull eerie life
in prison,the atrocities on prisoners and most importantly the real
culprit behind the crime (the one who actually killed his wife).To
exact his revenge he develops a master plan using his banking knowledge
and outwits the jail guards by a surreptitious escape from prison to
lead a new life in another part of the world.The movie scores in following aspects Dialogue:Witty , memorablejust
simply great..and yeah not to mention the smart,strong and powerful
narration by Morgan Freeman.Character formation:Every character carried some background
information.Background score:That's the USP of this film..The background theme
during the scene where Andy dufresne is brought into the Shawshank
prison and the camera rolls high above the prison is just so
mesmerizing.Acting: Top notch acting by the lead actors and backed well by the
support cast.Story: Powerful,thought-provoking,tear-shedding and most importantly
not a clichéd one.To sum up this movie gives a powerful message of hope and redemption
.something we all seek in life.

******
1 May 2010
9
The movie of a lifetime. I'm not going to compare it with the Forrest
Gump or the Godfather series, but this movie stands out saying 'I'm the
One!'.Remarkably perfect screenplay, wonderful dialogues and an unmatched
cast, this movie takes you to a journey through a life of a prisoner.
You never get bored of the movie even for a split-second though the
movie goes beyond 2 and a half hours if I remember. You realize what it
is to be a prisoner and its horrible after effects and the deferment of
human rights there. Perhaps you may have committed a crime, but that
surely makes you think twice before you commit a mistake/crime.Unmatchable cinematography and this movie indeed sets a benchmark for
the ones to follow!

******
9 April 2010
10
First, the Shawshank Redemption has been my favorite movie ever since I
saw it for the first time a few years after its initial release. I know
I have seen it more than 50 times and it never gets old. The film is a
heart-wrenching tale of a falsely accused man forced to do a life term
in prison due to an ironic twist of fate. Along the way, Andy makes
friends amongst his fellow prison mates; as well as some friends in
higher places. These friendships greatly influence the plot and outcome
of the story. The film has a dark side, too as the brutalities of
everyday prison life come to the forefront. Also, the film possesses a
lighter side with its portrayal of hope and faith and how those traits
can rise out of desperation. This film is a must see, and anyone who
watches it will undoubtedly laugh, cry, and wonder as they follow the
trials and tribulations of Andy Defresne and his close circle of
friends as they experience life behind bars inside the deep, dark, and
dank Shawshank Prison.

******
8 April 2010
10
Without The Shawshank Redemption, which can be called best?! These day,
i check in every day in time with my suit, and live a peaceful life.
some day, i feel not good, i need refresh my soul, i need bring some
light into my heart. so i get The Shawshank Redemption and watch it. It
has been 15 years after Frank Darabont made The Shawshank Redemption
this greatest movie until now. It says:"the greatest makes every one
feel in the same greatest way",The Shawshank Redemption is something
like this. When some one got be sentenced to spend his rest entire life
in the prison, the more hope he carries, the more dangerous he is. but
Andy told Red, hope is good, and goodness never die. so Andy can hold
his hope and dig the tunnel to out of Shawshank, when he finally
crosses the tunnel, and shout aloud under the rain. the faith of hope
breaks every nest.

******
2 April 2010
9
What is there to say about The Shawshank Redemption? Clearly there is a
reason for it's widespread popularity, and thankfully that praise is
warranted. While far from the best film I've ever seen (it currently
holds the #1 spot on IMDb), I can't argue against it being a great
film. In particular, the performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman
are inspiring enough to power the film through it's slower passages.
The cinematography has been praised for good reason as well, a lot of
thought was obviously put into every shot to convey a certain feeling
or message. Although I found the story arc to be somewhat predictable,
the art of storytelling is the real star here, guiding us through
themes that are masterfully simple on the surface, but have a lot going
on underneath for you to think about later on. Really the only thing
that held this film back for me is it's reliance on some rather cliché
(at least at this point in time) plot developments amidst it's middle
act. Being objective though, it's hard to tell whether that is the
fault of the way it was crafted, or just the result of the film being
so broad in it's scope. Either way, it stands the test of time as a
film very much worth viewing. Maybe we have been looking at Shawshank
all wrong. Maybe it's not so amazing because of how many people think
it's great, maybe it's because of how few people there are that don't.
It certainly has a message that everyone can appreciate.

******
1 April 2010
10
Why do I want to write the 22234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption?
I am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption.The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird) are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
31 March 2010
10
Having seen this movie several years ago, I decided to rent it again
since I couldn't totally recall the movie. And yes, it being number 1
on the top 250 list made me want to see it again. I decided to go into
the movie as if i hadn't seen it before to completely enjoy every
aspect of it. The first thing I noticed was its amazing story, and even
better, its gripping tale that hooks you from the very beginning. Tim
Robbins (Andy) and Morgan Freeman (Red) give superb performances. I
would go as far as to say that Shawshank is Freeman's best movie
(besides Seven). The plot is amazing, with many sub-plots and twists
that keep you from doing anything else. And the best part: the ending
of the movie. I don't want to give away anything about it, but I'll
just say that it rivals the ending of The Usual Suspects in every
possible way. All in all, great story, great acting, great plot,
awesome ending. What else could you want in a movie? 10/10 and nothing short of the best movie of all time.

******
14 March 2010
10
Yep I have to agree with so many others. I am a movie fan who usually
watches about 5 a week on average. I actually keep track of every movie
I watch in my own personal data sheet. This one is at the very top of
my list.No movie I know of has better character development than The Shawshank
Redemption. The movie has a few challenging scenes but most of it has a
relaxed, even attractive quality to it. Just about anything Morgan
Freeman does is good for me. I just can't help but like that man.I too thought this was Tim Robins' best role.I enjoyed the revenge component and somewhat happy ending even though
it may have been a bit of a stretch.Great stuff. Good movie making. Good story writing. Great screenplay.
Cinematography was appropriate. I felt like I was there with them.

******
10 March 2010
10
Small failures can't stop this movie from being grand, moving and very
well made. In it's first, and elegants scenes, we see Andy Dufresne
finding his wife and her lover dead, and then Andy being falsely
Accused of murder and sentenced to prison. This first scenes although
great, are not very important to the movie, because the movie does not
turns around Andy's false accusation (We know that since the
beginning), it's about what he learns and teaches inside the prison.
Although Robbins's performance is not excellent, he gives the character
an air of sadness, and in almost every scene of the picture, we can see
through his expressions that he is always either angry because he is
not supposed to be there, or upset because he can't find a way out of
there. Despite the fact that this movie is not very original, and when
I say that I'm remembering that it took a lot of elements from Don
Siegel's "Scape from Alcatraz" (I mean, it can be coincidence, but
don't you think that Brooks's raven is very is very similar in the
story to the mouse of "Scape from Alcatraz?), the movie covers it
because it's always grabbing you on the screen , I mean, there wasn't a
single moment in the whole movie that I thought was boring.Verdict: With a powerful moving story, charismatic characters
(Especially Freeman's), this Excellent movie is a great study of agony
and friendship.

******
8 March 2010
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of those one in a million type of
films. The story is simple; innocent man gets falsely accused of
murdering his wife, goes to prison for 20 years, escapes. You can't get
any simpler than that, but that is the beauty of it. Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman had their best roles in this film, and without a doubt
Oscar worthy. The twists and turns, confrontations, inspirations, and
most of all, hope make The Shawshank Redemption one of the greatest
films of all time. You can't help but smile at the end of the film, and
maybe even shed a tear, but in any case The Shawshank Redemption is
worth the watch over any other movie, and I encourage anyone who hasn't
seen it to see it as soon as possible. There will never be another film
like this, but nevertheless, Shawshank will never be forgotten and will
go down in history as being the most uplifting film ever.

******
3 March 2010
9
9.0Living in today's time, you might find yourself to be incredibly busy.
Or you might find yourself to have nothing but time. Lots of time, and
nothing to do. you might feel pressured in by tasks and
responsibilities. Jobs, school, family, children, or other
obligations/duties. You might feel like you want to escape, even if for
a little bit. Even if for just 2 hours. So you head over to the
theater. You can catch a 2 hour flick and for those 2 hours, take your
mind off the day's and the next day's demands. It can be quite
adventurous, if you're seeking that. Or even emotionally gratifying.
Truth is, films, and other entertainment, offer escapism. And the
producers and creators of these films know this. So, why watch a movie about imprisonment? You might find the subject
interesting, if you're keeping in mind that you will most likely never
go to prison. So why not watch from the outside, from the other side of
the glass mirror. You're safe there, and the film on screen cannot hurt
you. The villains or dangers on screen cannot attack you, let alone
even perceive you. But the opposite is true. The creators of the films
know you are there. You are the reason why the film exists. And they
aim to affect you. They sometimes even aim to attack you. And they
definitely can. Have you ever watched a movie that "spoke to you", made
you feel something, maybe even made you cry? How could you cry over
nonexistent people? How can these nonexistent people affect you? It's
because films are a reflection of the world. This reflection, although
often exaggerated (sometimes super exaggerated), strike a chord in you.
And the music, or the movie, stays in your head. And in your heart.So, once again, why watch a movie about imprisonment? Why would you
escape to a place where people want to escape from? You're going into
it with the assumption that at the end, the villain is defeated (the
villain being the prison), and the characters, which you've somehow
come to relate to and care about in the brief hour or two that you've
known them, triumph over the villain and escape danger. And admittedly,
as exaggerated as that is, you need it. A person does not suffer for no
reason. One does not fall to stay down. And besides, who's to say that
life inside is not life at all?The Shawshank Redemption is a human tale. It is one of the most down to
earth films I've ever seen. Human emotion, thought and spirit is
painted onto the screen, while succeeding at using the medium of film
for storytelling, resulting in a powerful and well composed movie. The
human heart is exposed as a fragile, yet firm organ which endures pain,
and even worse, sorrow. It is a pillar of integrity that continues to
beat even when the spirit of the person is broken, and hope itself has
been lost and forgotten about. However, while the story, pacing and performances will draw you in and
not let you go with its stroke of humanity, the film also displays the
human being at its worst. Complete disregard for the well being of
others, lack of forgiveness and greed are personalities and behaviors
that are exhibited in the film. The truth is, mankind is not fit for
self judgment. This is exhibited by errors in trial and the need for
juries and witnesses. However, it is also fact that the men serving
life sentences, although some committed errors whilst in a certain
drunken state of mind, are insane.Although there are many faces in The Shawshank Redemption, and some
come as far as to redeem themselves a little bit from time to time,
there is one character that is static throughout all the film: the
prison. It is arguably the best character, giving the best performance
as well. There are several shots in the film that display the prison,
that are the best shots in the film. This is the core of the film. This
is where the atmosphere and tone of the film shine through, albeit
gloomy. I just wish that there were more shots of the prison throughout
the film. But it is not the main character of the film. While it is a
character that speaks to the audience, it is not a relatable character.The Shawshank Redemption is a fine, fine film. It unveils the human
heart, and all the wonders and beauties that it is capable of. It also
manages to show off the polarity of the human heart. How men are
capable of not just ending life, but installing factors like misery,
sorrow, and hopelessness in others. Why do we feel trapped at times?
Who's keeping you in, and what are they keeping you from? The Shawshank
Redemption is a film that will imprison you, and not let you go until
it has affected you. And when it finally has affected you, it will set
you free. Blue skies, green grass and white clouds are what surrounds
us every day. Sometimes we spend too much time in "the hole", and
forget what life is like out there. You may even get used to it, and
find yourself feeling like you can't survive on the outside. You may
find yourself living in fear out there. But the truth is, you can build
brick walls around a man, impose limitations to his actions and goals,
but a man is only trapped on the inside. And just like our character
Andy Dufresne, we had to come to prison to become a crook. So, "get
busy living, or get busy dying." And get busy watching The Shawshank
Redemption.

******
3 March 2010
10
****Contains spoiler****I love the movie because it portrays great characters!As to my favorite character, Since all the characters in this movie are
so unique and vivid, especially Red and Andy, I had been in a tough
time to pick out my most favorite one. For God's sake, let me just
elect Andy at random first and write about the others next time. I think that the attraction for Andy mainly comes from the diversity
between his exterior and interior. I have got to tell you that just
Andy's appearance can merely teach me a lesson, reminding me of a
saying, "never judge a book by its cover. " I cannot describe it better
than those who have met Andy, so let me quote some words from them：1. "My wife used to say I'm a hard man to know. Like a closed book". -
Stated by Andy, himself"You strike me as a particularly icy and remorseless man, Mr. Dufresne.
It chills my blood just to look at you." -- Cited from the Judge who
sentenced AndyTommy: "What's he in here for anyway?" Red: "Murder." Tommy: "The hell,
you say." Red: "You wouldn't think it to look at the guy." -- Cited
from the conversation between Tommy and Red (Red had contacted with
Andy more than 30 years when he said that )The above quotes may show that Andy is a fierce , cruel man in the
external appearance. While he is warm-hearted and even be ready to help
out. Andy made the government to expend the library to educate far more
prisoners. Besides he even help a couple of fellas to get their high
school equivalency. 2. "I admit I didn't think much of Andy first time I laid eyes on him.
Looked like a stiff breeze would blow him over. That was my first
impression of the man." --cited from RedAccording to Red's comment, Andy looks weak, while you can find out
that he is pretty brave. In the prison, Andy had been targeted by a
group of homosexual guys called The Sisters. nevertheless Andy never
gave in to them, even though he was beaten to dead by The Sisters.3. Andy is an extremely intelligent person, who is a banker and
educated man. He always know the way to survive. In the person, one
cannot live on his own, he has to gang up with others. He bought the
gang beers and get accustomed to the custom of prison. Andy get along
with the guards even the warden as well by helping them to earn extra
money by finding the tax-deductible part.4. "He had a quiet way about him...a walk and a talk that just wasn't
normal around here. He strolled...like a man in the park without a care
or a worry in the world. Like he had on an invisible coat that would
shield him from this place." -- Cited from RedAndy is always in a clam mood and plans things to accomplish with a
very rational and organized way. Although Andy is flesh and blood, he
is still patience and can tolerate everything regardless of all the
abuse and bully. He spent 20 whole years for his prison-break with no
single shred of sign or evidence.5.Andy is the type of person who appreciates help and gives his brutal
revenge to the bad and evil. Tit for tat is a great conclusion to his
personality. He exploded the bribery and even murder crime that the
warden had committed, a doomsday to the evil once and for all.Considering all the points above, that is why I appreciate the
character Andy.

******
27 February 2010
10
Words of praise can't do enough justice for this film. There's
something about it where you could watch it over and over and over and
know everything that's gonna happen and still be shocked, saddened, and
amazed by it as if you saw it for the first time. It just screams
perfection: perfect story, acting, themes that are greatly worked into
it without being too obvious. Part of the reason this is one of my
favorites, maybe even my overall favorite film, is that it touches on
so many world-essential things that everyone can relate to: hope,
faith, integrity, justice, and the will to live and survive to name a
few. I was shocked when I learned that this didn't win any Oscars.
Although I do love Forrest Gump (the big winner of '94 which beat
Shawshank for pretty much everything it was nominated in) and think
that Tom Hanks did a brilliant job as Forrest, I still feel that
Shawshank was slightly better. Morgan Freeman delivers what might be
the performance of his career. There's so much believability in that
it's just amazing. Tim Robbins is probably the only man who could have
played Andy so perfectly. His quiet demeanor evokes great wonder about
him, much like how Roy Orbison is such a presence on-stage and he
hardly even moves. But the thing to really marvel about Andy is his
integrity and patience. Although his need to escape could have driven
him insane, his hope and faith in justice and God kept him sane enough
to patiently work out his escape for 19 years. That meeting between Red
and Andy where they discuss hope has to be one of the greatest scenes
in the whole movie, next to Andy's "resurrection" baptism in the rain
and when he breaks the sewage pipe with the stone in sync with the
lightning. This film is much like another favorite of mine "Citizen
Kane" because when it first came out people didn't really understand it
that well and didn't see the prophetic power in it the first time
around. But nowadays we as viewers have realized the impact and power
that Shawshank holds on everyone who sees it. Every time it rains now,
I just have the urge to run outside, take my shirt off, and just feel
the rain pour down on me. I've seen this film maybe 10 times by now,
and I know that I'll never stop watching it until the day that I die.

******
23 February 2010
10
You have probably seen many movies that have been adapted from a novel
or a book. Some of them have been successful while others have gone
down the drain. But this movie is probably the best adaption till now.
This is one of the few movies that captures the true imagination and
emotions from the author himself. The movie is a blend of everything
needed to create a good movie. Not only is the plot good, but the way
the whole movie has been put together with the cast is simply stunning.
You will easily get lost in this epic movie.The world of Hollywood is filled with animations, graphics, and action
but this movie has none. It is all about the feelings and emotions of
the characters. Morgan Freeman who plays as "Red" was probably his
greatest achievement. Tim Robbins way of acting completely took my
breath away. Everything they did in the movie was so touching and
powerful. Frank Darabont (the director) has kept the movie at a
brilliant steady pace which keep the viewer entertained every second of
the movie.This movie has captured my heart and is sure do the same for you.

******
23 February 2010
10
I have watched this film a dozen times and every time its a new
experience.Its like the old wine which only keeps getting better.
Red(Morgan Freeman) is the soul of the movie.I regard this as his
finest works after Unforgiven .Tim Robbins is at his best or should I say his best work of his career
.How dint this Movie get an Oscar is hard to answer.The movie has the
best dialogues,the lines have become legendary. The movie takes you though a period of time and is so well directed
that never ever do you fell bored through the length of it. This movie
has to be a part of every movie buffs collection. A masterpiece of a
movie..10/10

******
15 February 2010
10
When thinking of how to vote/rate a film such as The Shawshank
Redemption, I can only think, "What didn't I like?" Honestly, there's
nothing in this movie I can think of to make it better. Great story,
great characters, great actors and great scenes. Stephen King is an amazing story teller. Luckily, Frank Darabont has
the ability to translate it into film.When it's on TBS or USA, I always find myself finishing the movie
whether it's just started or has 15 minutes left. I'd like to think of
myself as a person with enough films under my belt to recognize an
amazing piece when they cross my path. This on the other hand crossed
my path, sat down, and entertained me.

******
13 February 2010
8
First off... I really liked "The Shawshank Redemption".It's a movie
that is comfortable with itself,it knows exactly what it is - a good
prison story with excellent performance from the leads and a happy
ending.It was never intended to be a cult masterpiece,that status has
become an "aftermarket accessory",so to speak. With only a "so - so"
initial reaction nobody concerned could have imagined it would be
elevated to the pantheon of movie greats. I suspect that in a world
desperate for good to be recognised and evil punished,a world where the
small man was becoming increasing powerless against "Them",heroes like
Andy and Red,abundantly decent and "ordinary" raged against the machine
on the audience's behalf. Movies about good vs evil whether "Star
Wars", "Lord of the Rings" or the later "Harry Potter" series have
built huge followings largely on that basis. Mr King's original novella
could not have produced such an affect,it needed a movie with all its
immediacy and impact to open out his story and punch his message to the
audience. Whilst a book may be put aside and continued later,thus
weakening its affect,a movie is seen in its entirety in a relatively
short space of time - no distractions. There has always one small thing
that has bothered me for years.... How did Andy hang his poster of Rita
Hayworth back up covering the hole in his cell wall after he had
escaped? That apart,"The Shawshank Redemption"is a completely
satisfying prison story,bringing up to date the old George Raft,James
Cagney movies from the 30s and 40s. Many people,for whom it has a
special message,think it amongst the finest films ever made.

******
7 February 2010
10
1994 seemed to be a landmark year for film. It produced Pulp Fiction
which is undoubtedly one the greatest films of all time. Bloody, brutal
and brilliant. Unintentionally accompanied with Forrest Gump, a sweeping epic tale of
a simpleton who is present at several of the biggest events the world
has seen which is brilliant in capturing the audiences imagination and
perhaps deservedly swept the Oscars. However, for me personally, The
Shawshank Redemption, which is tied with Braveheart and The LOTR
trilogy as my favourite films of all time , is simply unbeatable.A towering, moving, simply first class story of a man, Andy Dufresne
who is wrongly imprisoned for life in Shawshank penitentiary for the
murder of his wife and her extra-marital lover. Lived by Tim Robbins,
he struggles to adapt to the tough conditions in Shawshank assembled by
Captain Hadley, the Sisters and the off-beat warden Norton. Clancy
Brown is dark and effective in his role as Captain Hadley whom we love
to hate and Bob Gunton produces a career performance as warden Norton
whom we equally disdain, but for different reasons. Morgan Freeman is
outstanding in his role as Ellis Boyd Redding known affectionately as
'Red.' We can thank the academy for failing to recognise his turn with
the Award for Actor in a Leading Role that went to Tom Hanks, who can
annoyingly sleep through a role and still find himself reeking of
awards, money and positive publicity. I'm not saying that I didn't like
him in Forrest Gump, no way, he was fantastic, I just think Freeman was
a character we could sympathise and empathise with. That's just my
humble opinion though.It is the greatest story ever told on film in my opinion. Stephen King
works can be very dodgy when transferred on to the big screen
(Dreamcatcher) but Frank Darabont has done an astounding job in
depicting the pain and suffering that the prisoners endure whilst in
Shawshank. The screenplay is virtually flawless, great to see.The film succeeds brilliantly in gauging Andy Dufresnes levels of
comfortability in his surroundings and how he grows to become one of
the most popular inmates.To conclude, The Shawshank Redemption is a massively enjoyable film
that comes well equipped with drama, intrigue, twists and a triumphant
ending that is second to none. The cast, spear-headed by Robbins and
Freeman are immensely impressive and the direction by Frank Darabont is
unprecedentedly precise and pure. Whern you combine this with solid
cinematography and a wonderfully crafted script, you have possibly the
greatest film of all time! 10/10!

******
2 February 2010
10
The Shawshank redemption is a great movie about a bank man that is
innocent judged for murdering his wife, his the main character and his
name is Andy Defresne. When he arrives to the Shawshank prison he is
quite lonely but he soon gets friend with some other prisoners who is
serving a long and hard sentence. There is only men at the Shawshank
prison. The prison where the film takes place is in New England in the
U.S.The film about Andy Defresne is, right now, the film that is the
according to the people who have voted for the their favorite movie at
IMDb.com. The well known author Stephen King has written the story.I would obvious the best movie I have ever seen. It's very thrilling
and it happens things all the time, it's never boring to watch it. I
think I have seen it three or fore times. It's never gets bad. I give
the book 10 of 10 if I have to rate it.

******
9 January 2010
10
Great films stir emotions. They have an impact that lasts long beyond
the trip to the cinema. They give you an opportunity to reflect on your
life, to ponder on the moments and they can inspire. The often misnamed
'Shawshank Redemption' (Scrimshaw Reduction?) was a box office failure
when it came out in the UK in 1995. It's a story about 2 men, in prison
in the 1940s, 50s and 60s and what happens to them... and that sounds
pretty dull. But actually there is a simple message to this film and
that is that hope is a good thing and nothing good ever dies. It's
about the harsh and violent injustices that beset the central character
including one of my personal greatest fears  being locked up for
something I didn't do. The enigmatic Andy Dufresne goes on a 20 year
journey of triumph in the face of adversity  a metaphorical and
literal crawl through **** There are some powerful messages at play:
that we can all become institutionalised in jobs or relationships, but
that if we stick with them and believe in ourselves we will get to
where we are aiming in the end. My passion for this film is that it is
about life changing friendships and bonds between men which we quite
often find difficult to express. It leaves a lump in the throat every
time. Having seen it with my girlfriend, I went to see it two days
later with my best friend and when it came out on video I rented it and
watched it with my dad. It's a life affirmation film and when I'm fed
up it never fails to give me the reminder that "sometimes it all comes
down to a simple choice  get busy living or get busy dying." In my
humble opinion, this is the greatest film of all time.

******
4 January 2010
9
I hadn't watched this film in its entirety in probably 10 years so I
felt it was time for a re-watch. It still holds up as one of my
favourite films from the 90's. The very intricate adaptation of King's
work is so smartly done by Frank Darabont. You have to pay attention to
all the little details in order to make sense of the film at the end.
Its no easy task as the movie can move at a snails pace at times, but
that's what makes it so great. Its not trying to be flashy, its trying
to portray a very realistic view inside a mid 20th century New England
prison. You come to feel for every single one of these characters and
most importantly understand their motivations. A film like this could
have went so badly, but the actors and Darabont seem to make it look
effortless. The cast as an ensemble works wonderfully and Morgan
Freeman quite possibly gives the best performance of his career.Its too bad this film was released in a year that saw it competing
against Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction. One of the most underrated films
of the last 20 years. If it had been a different year, it could have
cleaned up at the Oscar.s I don't know if it deserves to be #1 on
IMDb's 250, but it definitely deserves a high spot.9/10

******
3 January 2010
10
If you're sitting there, like I was a few hours ago; thinking that this
film doesn't deserve to be called the Greatest Film of All Time, as
IMDb has it placed, then do yourself a favor and watch it first.I thought this was a popular vote that had no basis in reality, like
how people call a new- age pop band the "best band ever". I was wrong.
Very, very wrong.I'm not here to tell you that this is the best movie ever made, I can't
do that. Movies are about the meaning they have to your life and one's
personal experience defines what you relate to, thus that title will
always be different for each individual, but what I can do is tell you
about the effect it had on me.First and foremost this is a story about hope. It's not a story about
crime & prison, if you adhere to this interpretation then you're not
looking deep enough into the themes of the film. Yes, Mr. King uses the
story of Andy to communicate his messages, but the narration itself is
entirely superficial, this could have just as easily been a story about
war, but the conduit he uses is fairly well suited to his goal.The acting is superb, I couldn't think of a better suited cast. Tim
Robbins is fantastic as Andy (The main character), and Morgan Freeman
is just as good as his friend. The last time I saw acting this good was
in The Godfather. You feel for the characters, not only because of the
superb acting but also because the character development is so subtle
and concise that by the end of the film you feel as if you've known
them all your life.I'll elaborate on the allegory portrayed. The film explores such areas
as corruption, religion, hope, love & integrity. King suggests that
hope is the most important thing in life, and those who have lost it
ultimately decay into a sea of mediocrity (as shown through contrast
between Brooks & Red). This was the theme I found most interesting and
applicable to my life, but the rest are equally as touching. Notice the
difference in behavior between those who are religious and those who
are not, King hints at a perceived justification for evil in the
contrast between Andy & the Warden.Integrity is also portrayed as something delicate and somewhat
essential to happiness, like hope. King shows this mainly through the
actions of Andy, as embodied in the quote "The funny thing is - on the
outside, I was an honest man, straight as an arrow. I had to come to
prison to be a crook." (That was not a spoiler, it's fairly obvious
that he goes to prison, just by looking at the synopsis)I don't wish to get into the story too much, just keep these themes in
mind when you watch the movie and you'll find it infinitely more
rewarding.In conclusion, The Shawshank Redemption is the best film of the past 20
years, and while it perhaps doesn't deserve that top spot (I'm still
deciding, but I doubt I can convince myself to concede it does), it is
still an essential movie in my collection and I wouldn't give it up for
anything. It's right up there with The Godfather and The Good, The Bad
& The Ugly.Themes: 100% - Perhaps the best film ever made in this regard.Acting: 96% - Fabulous performances all round, characters don't age
much though.Story: 98% - A classic, the best King adaption by far.Lasting appeal: 99% - The only film you can watch 100 times and
discover something new each sit through.Influence: 92% - Watch it and you'll realize how ripped off it's been.Overall: 98% - It doesn't get much better than that.

******
28 December 2009
9
Superb adaptation of Stephen King's story, Rita Hayworth and the
Shawshank Redemption. It is very true to the story, with all its mood,
plot twists and the bad guy you love to hate. Characterization is
magnificent. I am not normally a Tim Robbins fan, but he does a near
perfect job here. Very satisfying. Worth seeing many times. The scene
with the music from the Marriage of Figaro is my favorite. The
relationship between Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman's characters grows
into one of the most satisfying in fiction. As all great fiction does,
this story and the movie of it make you question what is real, what is
true, and what is important.

******
17 December 2009
10
I was recommended this movie by a colleague in my previous office. It
is needless to write this comment but i just want to be the 2207th
person to write about this movie. The first half of the movie is slow.
Still it is engaging and keeps you involved into its characters.You are likely to left enchanted and awed by Andy Dufresne's chicanery
and intelligence. He's banker who has been framed in the murder of his
wife and made to serve life imprisonment. But, will he escape? Of
course !!! But, it's the manner and style of his escape that makes this
movie truly one of its kind . No doubt this movie has retained No. 1
for a long time now. And, it may remain for the years and decades to
come..

******
16 December 2009
10
this film! i cant just figure out,but it has something that moves you
from inside and you cant explain it,may it the lighting or the
distinctive cast that makes this ordinary film EXTRAORDINARY.its a shame it lost all the academy awards ,.. the movie was
overwhelming when it comes to the music that moulded the film into its
right structure or the perfect script that makes it worth to compete
with one the most brilliant films yet being a nun in the crowd! i am
sure i will not watch this movie again but it sure is to leave a deep
impact in my head that i will share with my grand children that there
was a film i watched that moved me to my core that sure to certain able
to compete with the greatest movies of their time!

******
14 December 2009
10
I am sorry to say that one who hasn’t seen ‘Shawshank Redemption’
hasn’t had experienced any good English films yet. But I was wondering
how such an awesome film could be deprived of an Oscar and to add a
pinch of salt to injuries, I was zapped to find that ‘Forest Gump’ was
considered as best pictures, Robert Zemeckis as best director and Tom
Hanks for best actor. No offence, I am a die hard fan of Tom Hanks. Not
to mention his performance in ‘Philadelphia’, Oscar was written all
over it. But in ‘Forest Gump’!!!!! He could have got it in ‘Cast Away’
had ‘Russell Crowe not been there in ‘Gladiator’. But in ‘Forest Gump’
in comparison to ‘Morgan Freeman’ in ‘Shawshank Redemption’, I
personally don’t buy the idea. As far as ‘Best Picture’ is concerned,
again how in the world could ‘Forest Gump’ earn the best picture award
when ‘Pulp Fiction’ & ‘Shaw shank Redemption’ were there in the
proximity? One of the prime features of ‘Shawshank Redemption’ is its
dialogues, so heart rending. The cinematography, acting of Tim Robbins,
(Andy Dufresne) an innocent banker, sentenced 30years back to back is
so brilliantly executed and ‘Morgan Freeman’ my man, my ‘Red’ is simply
outstanding. It is his best performance till date (Don’t know about
‘Invictus’ though (2010)) and to me it is undoubtedly better than
‘Million Dollar Baby’ (in which he finally got the Oscar). I personally
feel sorry for Frank Darabont, ‘Shawshank’ is probably the best film of
his life. A rare gem did not get its true worth. No wonder it is no. 1
out of the top 250 films on IMDb, (9.2 out of 10). I give it 10.

******
13 December 2009
10
A month back I thought I'd look for some good movies on IMDb again, and
surprisingly saw that there was a new rookie in the Top 250 list. The
shawnshank redemption. After checking that the movie plots fit my
likings, I decided to give the "ahem ahem" version a shot. Sure I
didn't expect it to beat my favorite movies, the godfather.. fight
club.. terminator 2, but thought It'd be watchable as it had the titles
I liked.Then came weekend, and I sat down and watched the movie. I was
immediately thrilled after first 30 minutes, and later on kept hoping
It'd never end. But once the end came, I sat there, eyes a bit wet, and
thought WOW. This truly was the best movie I've ever seen, beating
everything else in the IMDb list.Afterwards, I went and ordered the DVD (2 of 'em to cover my
illegalness in the first place) and watched the extra contets as well.
Truly a 1# of all time.I'm going to miss Morgan Freeman when he leaves this world.

******
7 December 2009
10
What have we become, if not a nation of lost beings? We seem to be
starving from the ravages of unmet needs and relentless fear--
festering deeply a growing malnutrition of the soul. Indeed, was there
ever a time when human beings truly lived to the full measure of their
capacity for good? Every once in a while a story is so beautifully constructed that we
find a penetrating transformation has overtaken us, defying
explanation, yet is as instinctively recognizable as joy, or laughter,
or even deep sorrow. Such is the work of Writer/Director Frank Darabont
in his powerful motion picture tale, "The Shawshank Redemption", which
is based on a most unassuming parable by Stephen King.Only through redemption will our nation find its way; and it is only by
the people, those individuals who refuse to compromise their capacity
to create beauty--or better, recognize it--who will guide us to our
true potential as a society, or more fundamentally, as a planetary
species. Indeed, beyond redemption is a lighted pathway to our intended destiny,
where fear transforms into compassion and hope becomes the new reality,
ever nourishing our spirit. Remember how you felt after watching this film? Though it may be true
that we have never met, in many ways I know who you are. And with that
insight wells up a comfort so luminous it lights this pathway on which,
through all the mysteriousness of the vast universe, we both travel
ever onward and upward.Ellison Horne

******
20 November 2009
10
This is an absolutely beautiful movie. I'm not so sure if it deserves
to be the number one movie on IMDb, or how exactly it wound up there,
but that aside I do really love it. You really feel for Andy and the rest of the prisoners in this movie.
It's a shame to see the warden and prison guards having the power that
they do over the inmates, especially since they are crooked, foul
individuals.One great scene is that of Brooks after he is released. I can still
remember the letter that he was narrating while it played out. Very
nicely done. There are many memorable lines throughout this movie, many
of which deal with hope which is a nice thing to hear about. The finale when you find out that Andy had been tunneling out for
twenty years was a very powerful one. It was amazing to think about how
it was accomplished and how he never gave up hope.The story really drives this film and the script is terrific. The
performance and characters are top notch and this movie should
definitely be seen by anyone who is a fan of movies.

******
15 November 2009
10
It's been 15 years since when this film was launched. I've learned
nothing but a simple lesson, "You get busy living, or get busy dying".
We all can be busy, but which one are we? Hope is the only weapon for
us to reach the state of "get busy living". Very great movie, and d
most inspiring after all. I pray that all people who are facing the
most toughest moments will have hope that God will guide to lift their
state of busy dying (living in that moment) to...the wonderful Get busy
Living!!It is about the lesson. Now talking about the film making; Mr. Robbins
was cool, very well act his role. I don't want to discuss why he didn't
get Oscar, because his partner Mr. Freeman (who got the Oscar) was
doing very well too. My dad does't like drama actually, but when he saw
this movie, he was moved and stand still on his chair to watch this
incredible movie. If you don't believe that this movie is awesome and
can inspire you to change your life, why don't you just give it a shot
by borrowing or buying that movie?great thanks i deliver to Stephen King and all people who are making
the story possible for me to watch. i have been changed so much.Last, just recommended for all people who are holding hope!

******
10 November 2009
10
Andy is a innocent man, who is thrown into prison for a crime he did
not commit, he finds himself having to survive and in turn begins a
life long friendship with another inmate.This film is raw and intense, it doesn't hide the brutal honesty of
prison life. I found myself at times cringing at certain scenes that
are very hard to watch.Through this film I felt Andy's pain, his sadness, his fear and his
rage; his yearning to be a free man once again and then his happiness
as he breaks away from the clutches of that evil place.The acting is top-notch, all the actors give great performances,
especially Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman whose narration gives the
audience something to hold onto. I found it quite sad, when Red is
released; a man who has spent his whole life behind bars and is unable
to find any kind of belonging...until he finally decides to go after
his old friend.But for me, it is when Andy chisels away night after night and crawls
his way to freedom that brought tears to my eyes....As he screams out,
while the rain falls on him. It's one the greatest moments in cinema, I
began to breath once again; something I was unable to do throughout the
film. Simply mesmerising.

******
6 November 2009
10
This is without a doubt my favorite movie. I can see this movie so many
times, and I never get tired, because I always feel the magic and the
beauty of it. Almost all the time when I talk about movies, I strongly
recommend The Shawshank Redemption.The roles of Andy Dufresne, Red, Brooks and several others are very
well performed. This movie just have it all: excellent music, it's
fantastically written, good acting, etc.It's so hard to believe that this wonderful movie was not awarded
neither at The Oscars nor The Golden Globes, but the best of all is
that The IMDb voters have it at #1. It really deserves to be at the
top.

******
5 November 2009
10
well...you normally don't find these types of movie all the time. In
Shawshank you can see Tim Robbins at his best when compared to other
movies...goes hand in hand with the plot...nd totally suits the
Character to be resembled in the movie.Well this must be the best of Morgan Freeman..and as the movie reaches
its climax it makes one more curious. As the movie moves towards its
ending it thickens more involving one into it. Perfect plot , awesome
Direction. The movie includes all it needs to show about prison life
like violence and hopelessness of a life behind bars.Final ending is not at all predictable which forms a shocking
climax.The Shawshank Redemption is all about hope and, because of that,
watching it is both uplifting, exciting and cathartic.This movie would
always stay on the Top in my List.

******
1 November 2009
10
The shawshank redemption is just sheer brilliance in cinema at its
best.it is hard to think that a film with no action and little change
of setting would be one of the greatest films of all time if not the
greatest, built on a low budget this tale of hope follows Andy dusfrene
(Robbins) as an inmate at shawshank prison and how he redeems himself
as a person with the power of strong friendships and enduring hope. if
you have not seen it stop anything that you're doing and go out and
view this masterpiece in any form you can. with unforgettable
performances from Morgan freeman and Tim Robbins this film will be
found spectacular by any generation including these to come.

******
30 October 2009
10
Well I bought this film and thought it would be a boring film about a
prison, but no I was seriously wrong it has to be one of the most
greatest films I have ever seen, portraying the beauty of friendship so
strong that the world could hang upon. I was engrossed by the film
entirely from start to finish, with it's humours, it's sadness, it's
action. I was so wrong to buy with a half hearted feeling. I would
recommend this film to anyone as the film they would most enjoy. My
favourite part was right at the end where Red goes and finds the box
and goes back to Andy and that scene on the beach was what got me; like
a strike of lightning, so much I nearly cried. The part where Andy has
the guts to go to a Hitler like man and talk to him about his finances
goes to show that there are people in the world who can make the
smallest difference but the biggest changes.

******
10 October 2009
10
Oh dear oh dear oh dear, I guess I have just upset many people who do
not want this movie keeping the top spot in IMDb's Top 250 movies but,
despite my personal reservations regarding it's lofty position ahead of
many other great movies, I really do rate this as a 10/10 movie and
have done for many years.Adapted from the novella by Stephen King I am sure that many people
were surprised by just how good the movie turned out to be although the
source material was great in it's own right (also featuring The Body,
which was filmed as Stand By Me, and Apt Pupil which deserves far more
attention than it receives from film fans). Thankfully, that source
material was treated with loving care and director Frank Darabont seems
to have led a cast and crew that were all able to look after every
detail so that the big picture was a thing of beauty.Tim Robbins stars as Andy Dufresne, a young man who faces a long, long
time in prison after he is found guilty of murdering his wife and her
lover. While inside he learns an awful lot about what a man can hold
onto and let himself be put through if there is still an ounce of hope
in his soul.In the acting stakes we get some great turns from the likes of Morgan
Freeman (playing "Red", the man who can get you anything and who
becomes Andy's best friend inside those bleak, high walls), Bob Gunton
as a rather "obtuse" warden, Clancy Brown as a particularly vicious
guard and then there are William Sadler, Gil Bellows and James Whitmore
all giving superb performances. And yet, despite the sheer quality on
show, Tim Robbins still manages to steal the movie. He IS Andy Dufresne
and those who have read the original novella will know as soon as he
gets that enigmatic little smirk on his face that Robbins was the
perfect choice for the role.Bottles of cool drink on a hot rooftop, a slowly building library
collection, the moment of musical joy that sees Dufresne severely
punished for his overstepping of the mark and many other scenes spring
to mind as classic moments in a movie almost chock full of classic
moments. Some people prefer The Green Mile but I ain't one of them.See this if you like: The Green Mile, The Escapist, Murder In The
First.

******
10 October 2009
9
I feel this movie is a bit underrated/unappreciated, but it is truly
one of my favorites of all time. Topnotch script, flawless acting. What
a powerful story. Perfect casting. Maybe the most effective I've ever
seen Morgan Freemen (and that's saying a lot). Parts of this movie were
a bit difficult to watch, due to how brutally realistic the scenes
where. This gut-wrenching film always managed to provide a small
glimmer of hope, in spite of seemingly unsurmountable odds. The hard
lessons learned and the viciousness of the warden and his imps stack up
against the humble, meek and cleaver lead character, brilliantly played
by Tim Robbins (his best work to date). I've lost count of just how
many times I've seen this marvelous film, but each time I discover
something that I missed previously. One of the best endings in
cinematic history.

******
30 September 2009
9
This movie not only had a very good story line, but also the way story
was told to the audience was commendable. i have not seen many movies
which you want to watch again, but this sure was. After you watch the movie and know what Andy actually was upto, you
would want to actually watch it again to see how good actors
(especially Andy) acted in those scenes. Movie revolves around Andy who is a hot shot banker, convicted for his
wife's murder and subsequently sent for two life sentences back to back
in Shawshank Prison. Andy who by his level of education and IQ gets
gifted with both friends and enemies inside the walls, gels up well
with Red, who gets a lot of things done for Andy. Warden also is
impressed with Andy and starts a scam with his help to launder money
into his pocket. In between, the brawl with "gang of sisters" the homosexuals who try to
assault Andy and Reds group, with who Andy starts to get along with
pretty well, play a very important part in the story.After twenty years, a young boy who somehow knows and could testify
Andy's innocence comes to Shawshank Prison for committing some felony.
Warden gets him killed and covers up the crime with 'that boy trying to
break free' story. By this time Andy gets ready for his revenge with Warden and his final
step. Story unfolds.I would like everybody who watches this to watch this movie twice, so
that they can understand the true essence of storytelling. Must tell
you that, I was more thrilled when I watched it for second time, as I
could understand things which were puzzling me for the first time. Brilliantly told, Meticulously Acted and Highly Recommended.

******
23 September 2009
10
One of the finest movies you will ever see!GodfatherII was my previous
best but now i have to acknowledge that shawshank was unique and
prolific in its own way.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman deliver an
outstanding performance and one has to say did a real justice to their
roles.This movie is about hope, and time.Time you need to do things you
wanna do,and time you need you to plan those things you wanna do.You
will find an immensely deep character of Andy dufresne and you will
have to wait till end to find out the height of his intellect,his
vision and above all his hope.Really a must see movie for those who think hope is a dangerous thing!!

******
22 September 2009
10
One of my all time favorite movies along with The Green Mile. I love
the Stephen King stories of both and I thought they did an excellent
job of making movies from them. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are
excellent as usual. If you haven't seen this movie you should try it. I
don't think you will be disappointed. Excellent characters throughout
the movie and a most enjoyable watch. Also if you get the chance read
the Stephen King story it was adapted from. You don't have to be a Stephen King fan to enjoy this movie so give it
a try. Well I am trying to write something without giving a spoiler or
putting in junk words but it seems IMDb insists I write at least 10
lines of text when just 3 or 4 lines would do.

******
22 September 2009
10
I Thought To Myself At First When I First viewed this movie it wasn't
at all going to be any worser than most movies i've seen. But I was
wrong. It's the best adapted movie of all time and I think I ought say
it's the best movie I've ever seen since The Dark Knight. I haven't
seen The Godfather Francise Yet but don't really want to now that I've
seen The Shawshank Redemption the very best movie and the top of my
favorite movie lists. It's powerful and jaw-dropping and can get very
emotional at times and the best thing about this film is Tim Robins the
best actor of all time and Morgan Freeman clearly the main character of
the film. The bad guys are the captain of the guards Mr Hatley I
remember and Norton the Worton the biggest assholes I've seen in a
movie that can drive you insane. And also Brookes and the guy with the
beard around his cheeks can't remember his name they were good too.
Best Movie of all time period 10/10

******
20 September 2009
10
A lesson of life. An extraordinary piece of film making that could
relate to life itself.This is along with "The Godfather" the most influential movie of all
time because it gives Hollywood a good name. I mean, it displays the
best of it through memorable acting, marvelous direction, extraordinary
art direction and cinematography, and best of all; it achieves to
deliver a message that may sound a cliché but ends up being a vital
part of life, you know it deals with "Hope". Sure, this is the anti
thesis of "The Godfather" in terms of the good characters always "win",
or the positive message, but that's another story.The pace of the movie is perfect because it gives it's time to explain
the events at it's full expression and through little details we fully
get into the world of Shawshank and we get to know perfectly the
principal inmates of it. Andy Dufrense is played brilliantly by Tim
Robbins who deserved an Oscar nod for his display of intelligence,
desperation, cold blood when needed and best of all, hope. But Morgan
Freeman steals the show as a character came from Heaven. He truly
inspires all the possible feelings to the audience. One of the all time
best performances. Clancy Brown also delivers s fantastic performance
as the creepy and cold blooded guardian. He's the man! The events of
the movie will get the best of you if you give them the chance. You
will feel happiness, hope, anger, sadness, and even you will have the
time to reflex for some specific moments.Death is seen as a new way of watching things here. Through Brooks
demise we learn that he was institutional, I mean, his life was prison.But as it's a big budget film, it has to deal with the obligatory
Hollywood situations such as the tender Jake sub-plot, the necessary
violent sequences, and the message it gives to the audience.I don't like poems that much but this movie is the closest thing to
film poetry. When art mixes correctly with talent and big resources
such as money, great things can happen and this beautiful movie is the
prime example.Friendship is displayed as one of the most important things in the
world. But you will find more values such as redemption, justice,
tenderness, and being grateful. The ending always makes me wanna cry,
but I play the strong guy ;)Please watch this movie in order to witness one of the best movies of
all time, if not one of the top 3.

******
20 September 2009
10
This is as close to a perfect film as I believe I have ever seen.
Everything about it just WORKS. Stephen King famously sells his stories
to filmmakers for one dollar, well this has got to be the best dollar
he has ever spent. Shawshank arrived with no fanfare, no big premiere,
it just opened. When I first read the Stephen King story, I thought it
would be one of the best King stories to be made into a film I could
imagine, and Frank Darabont did not let me down.Casting Morgan Freeman was probably the biggest coup for this film, he
is the absolute soul of dignity in everything he appears in, Tim
Robbins, relatively unknown at the time of filming, is a revelation. It
is, in fact, almost impossible to imagine any other actors in a single
role in this film it is so perfectly cast. Then there is the music, so
wonderfully incidental and appropriate. I could go on and on about
specifics, photography, lighting, but it is probably best to say that
anyone with a heart and a keen eye for good film-making should not miss
this film. Every time I watch it I have a lump in my throat for nearly
the entire running time, maybe because I have such a soft spot for it,
but also because, when you know the story and it unfolds for you, every
time you watch it different emotions come to the fore. There have been
criticisms that Shawshank is nothing more than the most manipulative
form of emotional heart-string tugging, but those criticisms are wrong,
whenever Darabont was at risk of overdoing it with the manipulation, he
pulled back. There is a moment near the end when it would have been
perfectly appropriate for Freeman's character to burst into tears (the
character does in the story), but he does not. It is an immensely
effective moment, the expression on his face is so convincing that you
cannot help but be reduced to tears yourself. Whether it was the actors
decision or the directors is as irrelevant as the many detractors of
this beautifully realised masterpiece.

******
18 September 2009
10
If there is a movie which defines "masterpiece" this will be it. It has
been a long time I saw a movie which really surprised me. You will
never know what is about to come. And when it ends, you find the
glimmering shine of hope. If this movie released any year other the
year of the Forrest Gump I am sure it would have swept the Academy
Awards.I usually don't like watching a decade old movie, but since this movie,
i have already gone through a dozen on the top 250 list. Morgan Freeman
is great as usual. So is Tim Robbins and James Whitmore. The whole cast
brings alive the spirit of the movie. And my suggestion to all who
haven't seen it already would be- add this to the top of your
to-do-list.Fan of such Hope-giving and Inspiring films: Shashank

******
18 September 2009
10
a very great one, with so many moments burned forever in my memory...
this is a movie about hope and about staying yourself, even under such
circumstances it perfectly mixes the best use of a narrator voice i
have watched so far with beautiful and still very honest pictures and
great dialogs, telling the story of a man thrown into prison for a
crime he did not commit. despite all the pain he meets there, all the
hopelessness those high gray walls suggest he manages to preserve his
hope and humanity, even to do something good for the people around him.
i couldn't imagine a better cast for it, especially liked Clancy Brown
as a nasty, sadistic Captain, but all were great. this is one of the
few movies i know being better than the books they are based on - in
this case it's not that difficult in fact, with the novel being rather
mediocre and a bit boring somehow. and for sure this is the best movie
based on a Stephen King novel. watch it and tell me it could not touch
you Andy Dufresne: (in letter to Red) "Remember Red, hope is a good
thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies."a very great one, with so many moments burned forever in my memory...this is a movie about hope and about staying yourself, even under such
circumstancesit perfectly mixes the best use of a narrator voice i have watched so
far with beautiful and still very honest pictures and great dialogs,
telling the story of a man thrown into prison for a crime he did not
commit. despite all the pain he meets there, all the hopelessness those
high gray walls suggest he manages to preserve his hope and humanity,
even to do something good for the people around him.i couldn't imagine a better cast for it, especially liked Clancy Brown
as a nasty, sadistic Captain, but all were great.this is one of the few movies i know being better than the books they
are based on - in this case it's not that difficult in fact, with the
novel being rather mediocre and a bit boring somehow. and for sure this
is the best movie based on a Stephen King novel.watch it and tell me it could not touch youAndy Dufresne: (in letter to Red) "Remember Red, hope is a good thing,
maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies."

******
31 August 2009
10
There are 218 pages of comments before mine. I'm not here to dissect
this movie-not the acting, or the cast, or the symbols, or pretty much
anything like that. I leave such analysis to better experts than me,
and I trust all those comments would enlighten everyone on such things.I just want to say this: this is a movie about HOPE. About weathering
whatever life throws at you, and getting through to the other side,
however bad things might look at any one point.One of those rare things, be they a book, or a song, or a picture..
that bring a little bit of light in your heart. Makes you see the world, a little better.Don't pass out on this.

******
25 August 2009
8
I really enjoyed watching this film. From start to finish this movie
had me guessing on what it was leading to. Tim Robins played great in
the movie, he made himself look mysterious which made me always wonder
what he would do next especially knowing that he is a intelligent
character. The part that caught me by surprise is the night that he
asked for the rope i swore that he was going to kill himself but it
turns out that in the morning he had done the impossible. Morgan
Freeman also played good as a narrator which made it seem as if he was
what the story was about which made Andy even more mysterious because
not much is revealed about him.

******
21 August 2009
10
...simply amazing.Superb acting of the highest class in the business. Frank Darabont's
Shawshank Redemption was not only the best movie of the year 1994, but
absolutely one of or even THE greatest movie of all time. Not receiving
a single award at the Oscars is probably the biggest scandal in the
movie business. It is a relief though seeing it getting the high amount
of respect it deserves here at the International Movie Database.The ultimate movie of redemption, friendship, struggle, hope and love
in one package. A wonderful photo and a great soundtrack.When talking about movies with friends and strangers alike, this is
most often the movie I recommend if not seen.Get busy living, or get busy dying. That SURE IS goddamn right

******
16 August 2009
10
So, i watched this film thinking it'd be pretty good. Was i wrong. It
wasn't good, nor was it bad-it was perfect. It's hard to get a perfect
film but i think this is a film that if you don't watch before you die
your crazy. The story is an adaption of Stephen King's (when you hear
that name you know it's going to be good) novel by the same name. It's
about a prisoner put in jail for life for the wrong crime. He makes
friends, people die, life moves on through his hardship until the
chance to escape walks along. Overall 10/10, you could describe it with
any word it'd still be awesome. Acting - Morgan Freeman was 10/10 in
this, and through a lot of his movies. Tim Robbins made a character
that was calm and cool and scared and worried etc. and could change
through his emotions in a heartbeat. 10/10I'll stop it there, but that's all you need to know. It deserves to be
top and if you don't think so cast your opinions because until then
it'll just keep being perfect.

******
15 August 2009
10
It is a great movie which received 7 Academy award nominations but lost
to eventual winner Forrest Gump and ranked 1# on IMDb.So there was
enough curiosity to watch this one.It is a very intelligent film in terms of story telling.The director
deserves kudos for extracting such fine performances from his lead
pair,Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman who received Academy award
nominations for their respective roles. Now the main question is does
it deserve the top spot on IMDb.Well,the immediate answer is NO.The
Godfather may be superior to The Shawshank Redemption by all means but
it manages to hold its own and is complete as a film.Shawshank is a
treat for the viewers.Do watch it for its gripping story well told.

******
1 August 2009
10
I have been an avid fan of Stephen King since elementary school. I went
to a catholic school from kindergarten through 8th grade. Of all places
for me to pick up my first King book, it was at a book fair for my
school. It was "The Eyes of the Dragon". I was hooked. I remember
reading this short story and not thinking much of it. Previous King
books-turned-movies offered a glimpse of what was to come. 90% of his
movies are almost perfect transitions from print to screen. Green Mile
is among the best as well, but......This movie definitely is what it is all about. I know it is cliché
to say it, yet I feel there has never been a more appropriate
comparison. This movie is like a fine wine. Not quite appreciated fully
at first but as time passes, it is clearly head and shoulders above the
rest. It was released in a year that saw amazing film-making. Gump
takes the best picture, and there were a handful of others which could
have taken that honor - had they been released any other year. Pulp
Fiction most notably... Don't get me wrong, Gump is a great movie just
not even close to best that year. 3rd or lower.When I first joined IMDb, Shawshank was #2. I hoped one day it would
overtake the top spot and it happened shortly after Dark Knight held it
for a brief period of time. Here's to Andy & hope, it is a wonderful
thing!

******
24 July 2009
10
I have only seen about a dozen films in a cinema setting in my life and
this film was one of the many that I originally watched on Video. I
watched it for the first time about five years ago having not
previously heard of it before. I was swept away by the way the story
unfolded and at the end I just felt as if my life had been uplifted by
having watched it. Not in some life changing way but just being better
than it was. I am not an idiot but I cannot adequately describe exactly
how this film affected me, maybe I don't need to. I have watched a lot
of the films in the IMDb top 250 and numerous that are not in the list
and this is one of very few which I would watch again and again. Im not
interested in the way it was made I just appreciate it for what it is.
It is a masterpiece in the same way that a piece of music or a painting
would be regarded and in my humble opinion deserves to be at the top of
the pile in the IMDb top 250. It probably wont sort your problems out
for you but it should make you think about whats important in life. One
of the few conclusions that I personally came to was that it shows that
the expression 'what goes around comes around' is in the film for all
to see. In a nutshell the good and bad that people do have a way of
coming back eventually to reward or penalise. The main characters in
the film were either rewarded or penalised and real life isn't always
that organised or fair. Anyway everybody has an opinion and if there is
anybody out there that hasn't seen this film please watch it you might
not like it but it is almost certain you will be affected by this film.

******
7 July 2009
9
I'm glad that this and not "The Dark Knight" is considered the greatest
movie of all time. TDK lost that battle if nothing else. And I love how
you literally just cant stop watching this film once it begins, despite
the fact that it offers the viewer no challenge whatsoever. The
artistry here is not in the tale itself, but in the telling of the
tale. Its a hope-in-the-face-of-tragedy fable, with a miraculous twist
that turns the whole thing on its head. You are not meant to ask too
many questions, else the whole thing falls apart.The key to this film is the editing and the photography. The filmmakers
have used the simplest possible visuals to frame the story. Two giants
in the film profession lent their enormous talent to this production :
editor Richard Francis-Bruce & cinematographer Roger Deakins. About
99.99 % of films rely on heavy-handed editing and camera gimmicks to
tell the story, and ironically they fail. In this film you just don't
perceive the role of the editor or the cinematographer, despite their
continual presence. Watch how the narration, images and score are
welded together in a flawless lock-step precision. There isn't a single
false moment or an out-of-place/unnecessary scene; the vignettes are
masterfully assembled into a seamless whole.I'm afraid I cant give this film a 10/10 because it isn't better than
dozens of other films that I've seen. In this world, events occur as
the story needs them, not as they might in the real world. This is done
so extraordinarily well that a passive viewer will NOT notice the
tricks involved. And so it gives me almost nothing non-filmic to think
about. But watch this film for its narrative mastery.

******
30 June 2009
10
I was not born when this movie came out so I have just had the chance
to watch this movie and actually appreciate it recently and I must say
I can see why this movie is recognized as one of the best movies of all
times. The movie generally gets across human emotion and the acting and
directing of everyone involved makes this movie a brilliant show alone.
Not only is the movie well made but the story of it is fantastic and
certainly does not mess up Stephen Kings novel. Even in it's near 3
hour runtime it does not ever get boring (and this is coming from
someone who comes from the add generation) and always has a story to
tell. Everything in this movie is important about the storytelling,
from the main story to even Brooks story of him spending 50 years in
prison and then being released and realizing he is completely dependent
on the prison and has become used to being enclosed in its walls.Overall, the film is a masterpiece and I am glad I got to watch such a
fantastic film. It is certainly up there in terms of the best movie of
all time, and even though I am a little hesitant to call it the best, I
would definitely put it in the top 10. I give this movie 96%.

******
10 June 2009
10
for sure this is my favourite more than 'in bruges' though the movie is
not technically when you watch it now,it doesn't matter because you
wont feel that you are watching a old movie .the emotion played such a
big role,also 'the characters did good justice for it.i was almost in
tears when that fat ass was screwed by the cop.the character brookes is
stills in my eyes (the way he walked in the road when He was out of
prison ,the innocence in his face when he tried to kill his friend,that
made me fall in love with this movie.not even in my dreams i expected
the he#ll go out of jail.and the friendship between red and him after
he faces people who were gay.... ithink this movie should have been
given all the seven Oscars.

******
8 June 2009
8
At the time of this writing "The Shawshank Redemption" occupies the top
spot in IMDb's list of top rated films. I will state right off the bat
that I don't agree with that assessment but that doesn't mean that I
don't think the film is a fine one.The story (based on a Stephen King novella) concerns a man sent to
Shawshank Penitentiary after being convicted of killing his wife and
her lover. Once there he undergoes many hardships but eventually
befriends the resident dealer in contraband and strikes an accord with
the guards and warden. However, through it all he never loses the hope
that someday, somehow he'll regain his freedom.The cast is commendable. Morgan Freeman delivered the film's best
performance and landed a well-deserved Oscar nomination in the process.
Tim Robbins was excellent as well, giving one of the best performances
of his career. The remainder of the cast is filled out by an assortment
of well-chosen character actors. Of these, Bob Gunton & James Whitmore
deserve special praise.The film's production values don't disappoint either though they are
undeniably not at quite the same level as the films that critics
usually dub the best of all time. Frank Darabont's direction is
tasteful, though, and is bolstered by Oscar-nominated cinematography
courtesy of eight time nominee Roger Deakins. Thomas Newman's
Oscar-nominated score has some memorable moments and provides solid
support throughout.In the end, though, while the film is indeed admirable from a technical
standpoint, it is the emotional impact that has made it a favorite of
so many. Naturally, emotional responses will vary from person to person
but this film seems to hit the mark more than any other. Do yourself a
favour and check it out.

******
24 May 2009
10
This is a movie that does not try to outsmart its viewer. It's a simple
story of friendship and "brotherhood", of good and evil. One of the
biggest things I got from this film is patience and determination. The
way the lead character Andy Dufresne, put up with the "wrongs"
throughout his life to finally be free. Traveling through 400 yards of
sh*t to taste freedom speaks volumes of his lifelong battle. I cannot begin to count the times I've seen this movie. "Shawshank" is
one of those movies that when you stumble upon it while channel
surfing, you have to watch it until the end. No matter how many times
I've seen it, I still weep at the "Brooks was here" scene and at the
ending of the movie. Such a well cast movie, you grow a fondness for
the characters good and bad. If I had to point out one flaw, it would be the "Elvis" prisoner.....
but this is only a mere speck that cannot dull the shine of this
outstanding movie. This is a movie that should have swept the Oscars in 1995. Between the
writing and the acting performances, It's a "no-brainer".

******
6 April 2009
10
I wondered what IMDb people voted as the best movie of all times until
one day I entered the video store and rented this disc called Shawshank
Redemption.I had the weird feeling that I already watched this movie before but
splintered into different movies/TV series like humph the heroes and
the villains, the acting all seemed so weird, is this deja vu? I am a
young person so I didn't know how great this was until I went to the
video store Morgan Freeman is so good, the way he narrated his story
touched my hypothalamus- he wasn't crappy nor unconvincing or sounded
underpaid nor overpaid-but-underqualified. He's great in what he do,
acting.The story's gradual exposure of Andy Dufresne's vulnerability was good
and not the hurried type most story makers do to make the character
big. He was mysterious and cool.Great great great!!! I don't know but this inspired me in some way.
Weird again right?

******
22 March 2009
9
Shawshank Redemption is an excellent movie.It's directed good,acted
good,written good and it definitely deserved a few Oscar's.There is no
doubt about it.It also deserves to be on IMDb's 250 list,as it
is.However,i must say that it's very,very overrated on IMDb.Even though
it's a great movie,it's still far,far away from being the best one!All of you who haven't seen this movie-should see it.But please don't
believe in IMDb's rating's!If you do you might be disappointed because
even though this is a great movie it's still not even close to being
the best one! There is a lot of movies better then this
one!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

******
2 March 2009
10
There aren't words too describe the greatness of this movie. The
Directing is fantastic. The music, moving. The dialog, amazing. The
story, exhilarating. Stephen Kings fantastic story of hope has been
brought to the screen as my second favored movie of all time.Andy Dufresene (Tim Robbins) is a middle aged man who has been wrongly
sent to prison for the murder of his wife and her lover. With a
lifetime to spend in Shawshank state prison he makes friends with an
old timer at Shawshank, Ellis Boyd Redding(Morgan Freenman). Sfter a
couple of years of abuse at the hands of the sisters (led by Mark
Rolston) Andy makes nice with the guards and becomes the teachers pet
of the prison. During his time at Shawshank Andy endures more hell than
anyone could ever imagine. From a friend dying to 50 feet of
unimaginable stench.This movie was not as well received as it should have been. It may have
been nominated for a couple of Oscars but the viewer reception was just
not to great. This movie is my favored only behind A Few Good Men.

******
22 February 2009
8
An inspiring and simple drama that will move you with shocking moments
and by the end, awe-inspiring sentiment.Our man gets sent to prison, though we're never quite sure if he done
it or not. He meets Morgan Freeman and begins an unforgettable
friendship, goes through trying experiences, and learns many things.In the end, we have an amazing film that will leave you with a sense of
awe and inspiration, helping you with the trials of your own life.IMO, it's not the greatest film ever, definitely not deserving the top
spot here on IMDb, but it's still a wonderful film and I recommend it
highly.And though it didn't win the Oscar for Best Picture-that went to Forest
Gump, and it was also up against Quiz Show, it is still a film that
will always be remembered and cherished.Very, very good.

******
12 February 2009
10
I have seen numerous movies in my life, yet I return to this one time
and time again because of the message it caries. The plot is generic
yet the acting of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman create an authentic
and realistic setting. Morgan Freeman's voice narrates this emotional
masterpiece, the tone of his low voice remains constant like the time
in our lives. This movie shows just that, that times keeps flowing on
by, you may hit some walls here and there yet you must make the best of
it. Andy(Robbins) through various actions attracts many admirers at
Shawshank even those unpleasant. Through these friends he finds solace.
If you are into GREAT movies this is the ultimate, after this movie I
knew that I would never see a better movie thereafter, and that
conclusion has stood the test of time.

******
8 February 2009
9
The story that emerges from from this unlikely source is hope and
inspiration. I say unlikely source because the story comes from the pen
of horror master Stephen King. This is not a story you can easily
envision coming from his tortured soul. But perhaps King is in his
element when words like prison, solitary confinement, torture and
unrealistic all spring forth to describe the story of Andy Dufresne and
his years at Shawshank prison.Narrated by "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), Shawshank Prison has become
his captive home of customers since he is able to procure certain items
like cigarettes, candy and so on. For a self proclaimed innocent victim
of the system, new comer Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) "Red" is asked for
a most unusual item - a rock pick. Andy is an amateur geologist. Andy
and "Red" gradually become friends as people come and go, one way or
another, from Shawshank as time passes them by.What on the surface might seem like a depressing story and situation is
filled with personal challenges and one's will to overcome impossible
odds. The prison is speckled with interesting characters such as the
oldest convict Brooks the librarian (James Whitmore) or the bible
thumping man at the top of Shawshank, Warden Norton (Bob Gunton).
Whether doing time like Andy or finally being release like Brooks or
being torn between beliefs like Warden Norton, each man faces their own
challenges while all of them endure the ravages of time.Everything about this movie is done with the backdrop of the prison
even though it is nothing like any typical prison film. The movie is
based on Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption by Stephen King.
There is no horror that is normally found in King's work. Instead this
is more of an inner character struggle like is found in another of
King's work, Stand By Me. Like that story the two main character are
linked in partnership with Tim Robbins giving a moving and powerful
performance next to a solid character study by Morgan Freeman.Director Frank Darabont delivers a solid film adding lots of life to
what could have been a dreary background. The story flows evenly with a
genuine care given to each character and each actor's performance.
Shawshank is an instant classic and puts Robbins in the lead to play
any every-man role aside the likes of Jimmy Stewart.

******
23 January 2009
10
Adapted from a Stephen King novella, The Shawshank Redemption takes a
prison drama and twists it into a fascinating existential treatise on
how to approach the business of day-to-day life in the face of a
desperately Sisyphian reality. As the film's signature line suggests,
"Get busy livin' or get busy dyin'." Filmed on location in an Ohio
prison, the film occasionally lapses into familiar formulas and
well-known stereotypes of the prison-drama genre, but overcomes them
due in no small part to a pair of transcendent performances by Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins. Director Frank Darabont and cinematographer
Roger Deakins (a Coen brothers collaborator) recreate the drudgery and
hopelessness of prison life in both the look and the details of dreary
rituals of daily life. Spanning twenty years in the lives of its
protagonists, Darabont's screenplay and direction allow us the luxury
of getting to know these men -- hardened criminals, with little hope
for the future -- through a series of quietly captivating scenes that
slowly build atmosphere and tension without sacrificing
characterization and thematic integrity. A critical success but a box
office failure when it was first released, the film was nominated for
seven Oscars, but won nary a one. Only when Shawshank was released on
video did it steadily garner full-fledged public reverence.

******
10 January 2009
10
I just saw this movie on HBO for the 4th time, and I was shocked at how
moving it was on this advanced viewing. Shawshank strikes a resonance
that is hard to define, but is none the less evident to anyone who has
the privilege of watching this movie.Since pretty much every major plot and acting observation has been made
in previous analysis, I would like to take a stab at what is at the
heart of this movie's greatness: The American Dream. This movie is all
about earning freedom, and even though the "redemption" is all about
defying the judicial system, the movie is, in essence, an ode to
American freedom. Andy's character spends the movie trying to overcome
the adversity of his surroundings to cultivate an individualistic
character that cannot be corrupted by the oppressions of the warden,
nor the limitations. Rather, Andy's character strives with relentless
hunger for the freedom, independence, and spirit that is at the heart
of Americana.Therein lies the beauty of this movie. There are no obtuse plot twists.
There is no melodrama. Rather, this is the simple story of the American
dream, pure and simple. For anyone who was searching, this is the great
American movie.

******
28 December 2008
10
one of the best ever...yuk everyone who hates on this film, listen to
about every great film critic and you'll hear its on top of their list.
best lines are used in everyday use. ending is stellar. plot and story
line are ridiculous. freeman and Robbin's are amazing in the leads and
possibly their best film ever. camera angles and vantage points are
always incredible. from a short story to a full length movie is a
ingenious move. Robbin's performance is impeccable and Freeman's acting
can not be described unless it is flawless. what more can be said? you
basically are a joke if this movie doesn't rank in your top 5. You must
see this movie...if not don't rank any others!

******
24 December 2008
10
I'm 23 and consider myself a "movie buff" whenever someone ask the
question well whats your favorite movie i say shawshank. don't even
need to say the whole title everyone knows and some people are just
waiting to hear your answer so they can say "no way this is the best"
but every time they pause and they are like yeah that movie is awesome.
this movie played a huge factor on the actors in it. what was the last
movie you saw that didn't have a part with morgan freeman narrating in
it. i mean the real question is "do you trust your wife?" i mean come
on this movie has everything in it! what andy does to the Warden is
amazing no hero character gets the bad guy better then what he does.
"brooks was here, so was red" that part is a very underrated part in
the movie which i think has a lot of impact. is anyone else like me in
when they see that movie on TV no matter what part just have to watch
it to the end? i have gone threw 3 of this DVD from just watching it so
much or letting people borrow it that have never seen it. also is there
anyone out there that doesn't like this movie?

******
23 December 2008
9
Shawshank redemption is a film that change your view of point for your
own life. When I watched the film first time around ten years ago, I
discovered something missing about my life that I do not know the real
meaning of decision and grand. Duffrense made me someone that believe
in myself firstly,and after Mr. Red again kept me believe in there is a
real friendship and society in the world still even than much more we d
meet and think or may be hope in our life from day to day. We just do
not know that where/when we could meet it. May be that s why I always
watch that movie when I lose my determinateness and confidence and each
time Shawshank makes me recovered and feel better and stronger.As for the Tim Robbins s performance, sure that he corresponded
significantly AndyDuffresne over the expectations. Created a sensitive
but extremelyintelligent prisoner at variance we have seen until today.
He was a simple someone. Assailed, belittled, used and hammered. He was
not a classical hero-prisoner as we get used to, more caring and
humane. And Tim Robbins fitted the role by his appearance, acting
ability and style.I am not going to make a comment for Morgan Freeman. He is the topper
of every comment I think.I love and appreciate him.Anyway, It is Shawshank Redemption. I do like the movies I think as
much as everyone who knows about life and fight to live.

******
19 December 2008
10
The storyline of the "Shawshank Redemption" is great from the start.
Narrated by Morgan Freeman, The movie starts off with the main
character, Andy, being sentenced to life in prison for the murder of
his wife and her lover. But just like everyone else in jail, Andy is
"innocent." Andy's main argument for the situation was that he was
drunk and did not remember. He said that he thought of trying to scare
them and later on, threw the gun into the lake. When Andy arrives to
the prison, everyone is walked down the entrance way into Shawshank
prison while the character Red (Morgan Freeman), the "go-to guy", makes
a bet that Andy will be the first person to "crack" or "go insane" and
burst into tears. Red and his friends of convicts all bet cigarettes on
different inmates to see which will be the first one to crack.
Shockingly, Red loses the bet as Andy remains emotionless and lifeless
as he walks through the walls of Shawshank. But as Red continues to
observe Andy's behavior, he soon realizes that Andy is more unique than
he seems. As Red's observation continues, he notices that Andy starts
treating prison like life outside of the walls. Andy approaches Red and
asks him for a "Rock Hammer" which is basically like a shrunken mining
pick. Andy continues to sculpt rocks and make chess pieces for his own
amusement.When the cells close and the lights go off, if an inmate becomes rowdy,
the guards give them an "Accident" eventually leading to the inmates
death. Andy almost experiences an "Accident" when he stops working and
interrupts a guard's conversation. Andy helps him with his situation in
exchange for the workers have a day off and drink beer, and thus, he
becomes in favor of the guards and the inmates. Andy soon finds himself
in favor of the Warden as he starts doing everyone's taxes. When Andy
is abused and beaten by the gang/group of inmates called, "The
Sisters," the guards stand in Andy's favor where they get the lead
sister have an "accident." Andy does what he can to help the prison
become a more comfortable environment where he builds a fancy library
and retrieves a larger budget for "new" used books. Andy does what he
can in the favor of the inmates and earns a high respect. In this
dramatic/suspenseful movie, hope is the main theme of the movie. Red
tells Andy, "Hope can kill a man." Andy replies, "No, Hope give a man a
reason to live, hope can set you free." I give this movie a 10/10
because it is simply a great film, the cinematography is awesome, the
symbolism in lighting is great, and the storyline is a great one. I
would recommend watching this movie.

******
14 December 2008
8
Well. I don't have anything to say but, the movie was 100% great.
Morgan Freeman is the man. Superb acting & great story with everyone in
the family can watch this movie together. Anyone haven't watched this
classic movie, please watch it. It's worth it buying the original DVD
from Amazon or CD Universe. The script is greatly done. Movies like
this are more offently released. I watched it twice & I have the
original DVD with me. Talking about "Stephen King" great writer & I
loved his films such as "Secret Window", "Red Rose", "The Mist", "Pet
Semetary" are some of the movies I really preferred watching. The good
thing is that this movie are released by all the good production
companies like Castelock Entertainment, Warner Brothers & 20th Century
Fox.That's all. Again great movie. Watch it!!!

******
13 December 2008
10
Few movies can get this critic watching them again and again, but
Shawshank hits the mark on it's near flawless story and cinematography.
With the brilliant acting of Morgan Freeman and as Red and Tim Robbins
as Andy Dufresne, this adaptation of a Stephen King novella reaches out
to audiences of all backgrounds.Comedy lovers need not be discouraged as The Shawshank Redemption is
without comic relief to lighten the dramatic tensions laced within the
movie.My one criticism though is that write/director Frank Darabont just had
to yank that extra tear out of the audience. This was apparent in
certain scenes as the one when Brooks Hatlen has too much "trouble"
with his free life.

******
8 December 2008
8
This film is probably one of if not the best sleeper hits in film
history. Of all the votes cast on IMDb, I bet less than 1% saw the film
at the cinema. Like all sleeper hits, under-hyped at the time of
release, when you watch it and revel in its brilliance, your hair
standing on end in parts, it feels more personal to you than a massive
blockbuster. I think this is why it is so over-rated. it is not a ten.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are so fantastic and the story is so
emotionally wrought that it is possible to get carried away. But better
than the Godfather? Gimme a break!!! We are comparing the work of a
superb craftsman with the work of a visionary artist whose films have
had more influence on modern cinema than anyone bar perhaps his old
film-school mates. A fantastic, hugely-credible tearjerker. By the DVD,
get it out now and again, get yer tissues ready.

******
7 December 2008
8
Film Review: The Shawshank Redemption (from a novel by Stephen King)
The tale of the banker (Tim Robbins), who, given life imprisonment for
the murder of his wife and her lover, adapts to prison life using his
native wit, as told through the eyes of another lifer (Morgan Freeman).
Absorbing plot, interesting relationship between the two leads. The
prison system (of Maine) exposed as brutal and corrupt, the chief guard
(sadist) and the warden (sanctimonious bible basher) are particularly
nasty. Setting the story between the 40s and 60s makes it a little
easier to believe. Fairytale ending.Conservatives might argue all the brutality is justified in making
prison a deterrent, but that hardly excuses the murders by guards and
embezzlement by the warden. Of course the same people will contend
insider trading keeps the stock market efficient  laws are OK as long
as they do not inconvenience entrepreneurs. What we see here is a
criminal injustice system similar to that which prevailed in parts of
Australia at the time (and probably still does). The public doesn't
care and the politicians don't want to appear soft on crime, after all,
only bad people go to prison. Actually, King accepts that some
prisoners have done pretty awful things, and go on doing them in
prison.So who is being redeemed? The problem is that Tim Robbin's character is
a moral and upright character who should not be in jail  he has no
need to forgive himself. Most of the other prisoners seem to think they
are innocent, which makes "redemption" hard for them. Perhaps Morgan
Freeman's character eventually does, but at enormous cost. Anyway, it's
a good yarn, and virtue (of a sort) does triumph, which is always
cheering.

******
6 December 2008
10
The Shawshank Redemption (1994, Dir. Frank Darabont) Announced guilty for the murder of his wife, Andy Dufresne (Robbins) is
sent to Shawshank prison to serve a life term. Becoming friends with
Red (Morgan), Andy tries to adapt to prison life, and goes on an
unforgettable journey with Red inside the prison walls.Brilliant, Powerful and Moving storytelling brought together by
everyone involved. Robbins and Freeman showcase their full acting
talents and provide amazing performances in a wonderful classic that
deserved top mark in best film lists.Get busy living, or get busy dying.  Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding (Morgan
Freeman)

******
2 December 2008
10
If you guys are having the sparing some of your time to watch a
movie,you must check out The Shawshank Redemption. It has gotta be the
best motion picture ever made. It simply touches your soul and leaves
such a thunderous impact on you. A very simple story which tells you to
have hope,no matter what circumstances may arise. I am thoroughly out
of words to describe how good this movie is. Doesn't matter what genre
you like but in no way are you not going to appreciate the beauty of
this movie. It tells us how hope is a good thing,maybe the best of the
things there are & good things never die. Simply outstanding stuff.
Best motion movie ever made. Period.

******
1 December 2008
10
why i think this is the best movie ever!!! ..... i think is the best
movie ever cause u will never hear someone to tell u that he doesn't
liked that movie (in any age that can understand about movies)!! so we
have a movie that everyone likes no exceptions !!! do u know another
movie that all people likes?? i am not sure there is !!! as example ,,,
godfather ,,, perfect movie but for some people that they don't like
the subject of the movie is not so good !!! ... so i think is good
choice to be no 1!!..............................
............................................................
............................ any different opinions will be
discussed!!!

******
24 November 2008
10
The summary must sound cliché, but this truly provides as a sleeping
giant of a spectacle. Originally shown to my class at school, we tried
to postpone this movie by nagging the teacher and ended up watching a
movie we started only for slight show. We saw 'The Crow (1994)' and
really didn't care much for this film. However, from the opening scene
to the closing of the picture, The Shawshank Redemption captured us all
and never let our attention away. I had to watch this a few more times
with friends and relatives out of school especially with some
disruptive kids talking and what-not, but I still couldn't take my mind
off the fact that I underestimated this film so much.If you want someone to watch this movie, then don't make it seem so
great. It will take away from watching it by driving the expectations
of that person far too high. Possibly the reason this isn't a perfect
ten for everyone. Others didn't want to see this movie high in rating
or are too pompous to score it high or are just too dense to change the
rating from '1' to the actual rating deserved accordingly.This movie has a quirky name that sounds almost biblical and cast and
even Frank Darabont knew this could cause a problem. However, for
whoever watches it, the quirky name throws him or her off guard and
then pulls him or her into the movie unlike ever possible. This isn't a
blockbuster; this is a magnificent film with an outstanding script and
incredible and unusual cast. I'm writing this assuming everyone who has
read this saw the movie already, and if you haven't... "it's alright".

******
1 November 2008
10
This movie is a classic, first of its kind as far as prison breaking
idea is concerned, the will of a man to help the prison, the grudge of
a man against a corrupt officer and lastly the friendship that starts
with two phrases of conversation that lasts forever.The whole plot revolves around Andy Dufresne who is a prisoner at the
Shawshank prison for a crime he hasn't done. He makes friendship with
Red, an inmate, who has been prisoned for 20 years and the only person
who can get you almost anything from outside world.Andy, a banker by profession, helps the prison guards to evade Income
Tax for free and only demands beer for his fellow inmates thus winning
the hearts of his friends, who are ready to do anything for him. Later,
he switches his attention to the prison library and totally
revolutionizes it by buying good books, music platters, a gramophone,
thus making it the best library in the state. He, then switches his
attention to Tommy, an illiterate, who has the zest to study and come
up in life. He teaches him from A,B,C to everything required for a
person to clear the metric exam. He also works for the Warden, a
corrupt person who can do almost anything for money.Andy is a person who likes to keep himself busy, and at day he does all
the above things to fulfill it. But, at night when he is idle, he
drills a huge hole using a rock hammer and shades it with posters of
beautiful women and cases the hammer within the bible given to him.It so happens that Tommy becomes a witness of Andy for not killing his
wife and his wife's lover, but the Warden, kills Tommy just because
releasing Andy would stop all the monetary inflow into Shawshank.After he escapes the prison after 20 years of digging, he unfolds the
corrupt warden's crimes to the press and escapes to Mexico without
leaving a trail. The Warden, out of embarrassment and fear of being
legally sued commits suicide which becomes a major factor for the
release of Red a few months later.Red follows the instructions given by Andy and both later meet in
Mexico.

******
24 October 2008
10
Normally I am very lazy at writing comments, but this film has made me
do it. The film is marvelous and beautiful. At, First I thought It was
just another escape from the jail movie. But how the two and a half
hour movie passed I didn't even come to know. I usually Fast Forward
some scenes which I feel are regular but While watching this film I was
so very mesmerized that I didn't even come to know how the time went
by.The character Mr. Morgan plays is really the best and worth for an
Oscar. In fact all the characters were very good. One of the best about
this movie is that there is only one female character and no sex scenes
or any useless scenes which may be forcefully fitted in the movie.All I could say is that this is a must watch movie.Thats all folks

******
13 October 2008
10
Hope can set anyone free, imprisoned or not imprisoned, it affects us
all.The shawshank redemption is not only the greatest movie i have ever
seen, but it also consists of the greatest screen play I have ever
seen. Morgan Freemen and Tim Robbins were casted perfectly, and it was
the screen play that made it great. The scenery was great as welll,
like when Red was walking out of the field andy told him to go to, and
the crickets were flying all over the place. I loved watching how
Morgan Freemen before on the bus before he got andys gift and after,
Andy gave him hope and it set him free.The fact is this movie has it all. Screenplay, acting, scenery, and of
course the little things that make the Shawshank deserving to hold the
1 spot on my list for greatest movies ever made

******
11 October 2008
10
I first saw this film some years ago and it left a deep impression on
my mind. Recently I made a list of films that I had seen before that I
would like to see again. Top of my list was The Shawshank Redemption.
All I could remember of the film was that it was about 2 men in Prison
BUT that it had made a deep impression on me and I wanted to see it
again. I got to see it again and I was not disappointed. It was on
local TV and even all the ads couldn't spoil it. I was entranced by the
two chief characters who were superb and also by the secondary
characters. As the final credits rolled I felt as though I could watch
it again and pick up on things that I had missed. I've never felt like
that before about any film. I haven't checked as to whether this movie
received any Oscars but it certainly should have for the characters,
for the story, for best film and so on. I highly recommend this movie.
Definitely 10/10. I'm off to find it on DVD.

******
27 September 2008
9
I must say that movies like this are certainly rare. There aren't many
other movies that can combine drama and comedy and also a moral lesson
that speaks to the heart as this one does. I actually watched this
movie in my high school AP English 4 class as we were comparing it to
the novel One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich by Alexandr
Solzhenitsyn. While that was a good book, Shawshank is SO much better.
I was surprised that our teacher actually let us watch it because our
school was somewhat anal about movies with sex and/or language in it
but I am so glad i got to see it. It was the highlight of the class.
The main character of Andy has a quality that all of us possess, which
is the desire to defy the odds overcome our obstacles. There's not much
more I can say that has not already been said. Wonderful movie with
great acting and a lesson that is important for everyone 9 stars!

******
23 September 2008
9
Shawshank Redemption is great picture. (My remark) is also an annoying
cliché. I am not the first person to daydream and then write why this
is the best-loved movie either.The top movies are: a) War dramas/ b) Wild West masterpieces/ c) Pop
Culture. The latter category is populated especially by Mafia movies,
stories about capable people hidden from the eyes that govern most
people's lives. Movies about the most successful of us that live their
own way. In other words, Cool films.Alright, so what is "Shawshank" doing among these? My take is that
Shawshank touches a key in every one of us, and that key sounds as a
description of freedom. It has no subtle, hidden messages. It's not
cool. It's plain, straightforward. It has -though, this subject that
may be the most sought right in the history of man. We always say after
we pass a bleak period of our lives that it's good to know a deeply low
and depressing moment since you know it cannot be worse. Well, that's
the feeling I get about Shawshank's resonance.In some sense, I find a comparison basis with The Beatles. Why were the
latter the best ever music group? Well, because they were so simple yet
so effective. Does music or film has to have a deep hidden message?
Music and film must impress, first and foremost. Why we are most of the
time preoccupied of making a difference from other people through our
preferences, separating ourselves by fake elitist values, instead of
creating something our own (in some sense "our own, together"), making
us known through our very names. But I digress and I apologize for
maybe wasting your time.The bottom line is not that Shawshank is the best, but that it is a
favorite, a loved picture, like many others. Don't we have to give a
ten to oh-so-many others without being able to give it more. Likewise
it impresses us that at the end credits we just keep silent just to not
be clichéd. At least we come here and write reviews...

******
5 September 2008
8
After several viewings of The Shawshank Redemption, the idea of time
and pressure is the thing that jumps out more than anything else,
perhaps because the world we live in is geared towards short term
gains, quick fixes and schemes to achieve success without the requisite
effort.What I enjoyed most about this film is that it reminded me that lasting
achievements are about consistency and persistent efforts over time and
that this really is the only way, and to stay focused and positive in
the face of the set backs life can throw at you. It has had the impact
of making me see the mountains in my own life as a series of many small
steps, even though this idea is essentially a background in the film,
which is really about the relationship between Andy and Red.The corrupt officials in the film are surprised by the turn of events,
highlighting them as short term thinkers, concerned with power and
position, unable to perceive the outcome of longer term thinking, so
when change comes, they are unprepared and the things that formerly
gave them security and certainty are the source of their own demise.

******
30 August 2008
8
Tim Robbins (War of the worlds) stars as Andy, a man who is sentenced
to life in Shawshank prison after the murder of his wife and her lover.In this adaptation of Stephen King's novel, director Darabont delivers
a touching tale about one man's quest to live and to survive in one of
the toughest prison's in the country, with great acting, a wonderful
plot, and a few other little tweaks to make a beautiful crime drama.Nominated for 7 Oscars including Best Picture, Shawshank is a true
touching crime drama, built around Andy Dufresne, who's approach to
life in prison, his attitude towards life and the care for his inmates,
makes him the most caring guy in prison you will ever see, which is
helped along by a stunning performance by Robbins. He is the symbol of
hope, the guy of light and talent to aspire to.The ideology of hope is issued throughout the 2 hour film, and will
leave you feeling inspired come the end.Robbins is helped along by Oscar nominated Morgan Freeman (Million
Dollar baby) who plays Red, the man who can get things. Red to, is a
symbol of hope and light out of the darkness of the cruel surroundings,
and his narration really gets an idea of what life in Shawshank is
really like.Red's tale is very sharp, and very dramatic, giving a thoughtful
approach to prison life. The settings of the prison are very drab, a
very dull place to serve your life sentence. The ruling of the place is
equally as dramatic as the settings with cruel beatings, a place called
the hole and fellow criminals to make life a misery. These approaches
to running the prison is also controversial, a shocking portrayal of
the system but justifies the genre exceptionally well.Having never read the novel, this film has inspired me to take an
interest in Stephen King's novels, as did Misery and The Shining, but
being a fan of drama rather than horror, makes this top of my list.Not the best of King's films I have to say, with The Shining and Misery
true film greats, but the touching tale of one man and his punishment
makes Shawshank Redemption a remarkable stunning watch.

******
26 August 2008
10
To most this is jail break movie, to others it's about friendship, yet
some swear by how it is about standing up against authority.See, the thing with great movies is that they're always about simple
things. This movie was about life - about the mistakes you make - about
the price you might have to pay - about the irony in it - and of
course, about redemption. There is not a single moment in the movie
when you feel the crew has lost their grip on the script.What I enjoyed the most was Morgan Freeman's soliloquies. The dialogues
a quoteworthy and are etched long after the movie ends.This is one of those movies you never get tired of watching.

******
3 August 2008
9
With the many other entries already here, I won't bore the reader with
another synopsis. But hopefully, I will provide the details of one
scene that sticks out so greatly in my memory because of the
unbelievable (and fantastic) attention to detail that is not only here
but is gloriously throughout this whole movie.Towards the end, Red (Morgan Freeman) is searching for something that
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) left for him. Red has been paroled but the
possibility still exists that he will either kill himself like Brooks
or commit a crime just to get back into the safety of prison. His day
job (bag boy at a local grocery store) is going nowhere.Months (possibly years) before, Andy gave Red directions on finding
something very important if Red ever got out of prison. Red finally
with nothing else left to do, follows up on that request. He travels a
fairly long way (for him), across some difficult terrain and comes upon
the scene described. Yet, it still requires searching and faith to
uncover what Andy has left him.Finally, he finds it, and opens the contents, and his life is changed
forever.What is so important is the minute detail of this scene  the location
is not next to some superhighway but far off the most unbeaten path one
could imagine. The object is not carelessly left under one rock, but
under a number. Many people would have assumed they were in the wrong
place after a few minutes of not finding the object and moved on.Finally, when Red does find it, he looks very furtively around him sure
that someone must be watching him. He sits down, now practically hidden
from any possible passers-by, and opens the object, and what he finds
inside leads him to even more frightenedly glance around, sure now that
there must be others watching, he must be found out, HE MUST STILL BE
IN PRISON.This whole scene could have been done it about two minutes, a couple of
quick cuts, him opening the box and discovering the contents and then a
cut to the next scene. But, it isn't that at all, it is one of the most
intricate scenes I have ever witnessed for what is a small advancement
of the plot. But that's the catch. This is so important to the plot,
that the scene had to be given this kind of detail, so that the viewer
would completely understand what Andy was talking about and what Red
had to discover. Red for all practical purposes was still in prison 
and he wasn't living yet, he was still getting busy dying.At this moment in the movie, Red (and you the viewer) still doesn't
know if Andy made it on the outside. He escaped, but where to? Yes
there was that (more or less) cryptic postcard, but especially how did
whatever Andy left for Red figure into the story? When would Andy have
buried it? How did he know what to put inside it? Considering the
search underway for Andy on the day following his escape, if I were
Andy, as soon as I recovered the money from the banks, I would have
been long gone, far, far out of the state of Maine. I certainly
wouldn't want the warden walking into any of the banks and finding me
there, and it would have taken several days for the newspaper to decide
to publish the article and especially for the State Corrections
officials to come down on the warden even with all the incriminating
evidence. Andy needed to be gone for several months until all the
hoopla had died down before he could return to actually bury the
object. So, the intricacy of this scene now becomes clear as it really
has to match the intricacy of Andy's planning for every detail This
whole sequence is so important to the story, because it's now time for
Red to decide if he should get busy dying or get busy living, because
he now finally has the choice. Maybe this movie is more about Red's
growth then about Andy's resilience. Andy always had his drive, Red
needed to learn it. Andy gave him the courage to finally face his own
demons and overcome them. Red now has his chance at redemption.
Remember, Andy didn't commit any crimes, Red did. Andy really didn't
need to be redeemed - Red needed it badly, The performances by Tim
Robbins, especially when he tells Red of his request and Red imagines
the worst, and of Morgan Freeman in this little scene are spectacular.
I cannot possibly imagine any other actors pulling this off.

******
25 July 2008
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a great movie. You can tell it is a great
movie from the very beginning. Unlike many movies of the same type, the
main character gets away, and the main villain gets what was coming too
him. The Scene where Andy escapes is one of those scenes that will
stick with you for a long time. It is without a doubt one of my
favorite movie scenes. The way he is just stripping his clothes and
throwing them on the ground, it really gives you a since for how
emotional a moment it is for him. When he looks up at the sky, it just
makes you want to cry. Hey that rhymed. Anyway, everyone should see
this movie.

******
22 July 2008
10
This film captivates the imagination and gives all who watch it hope.
For a film to put you to tears through happiness and sadness it really
has to be something special. It has one of the greatest twists ever in
film and has an ending that is unrivalled, it could not have been made
any better. I have watched it maybe twenty times, its always an
inspiration and an excellent tonic for those of us living a life we
would like to change.The lines and the narration at the end are like poetry and the message
of hope and human defiance is transcended to all. I can't recommend
this film highly enough, it is an emotional roller-coaster but truly
magical and will leave you warm inside.A masterpiece.

******
21 June 2008
9
When I first got this movie I was never bothered to watch it. I first
heard of it from my cousin who said it was "so damn good". I never
watched it for two months but when I got seriously bored I just decided
it was time. And boy was my cousin right. This film is damn good. Andy
Dufrene is accused of murder due to circumstantial evidence which
results in him being sent to shawshank. There he meets Red and his
mates. Over the years they bond and share a powerful friendship. This
film tells the triumph of the human spirit, and how hope is a good
thing. The acting is top notch, direction and cinematography brilliant,
and the soundtrack empathizes the film like no other can. I seriously recommend this film to those that want to see a brilliant
masterpiece.9/10

******
8 June 2008
10
I have no words to express the feelings I got after watching the climax
of The Shawshank Redemption.Very few movies touch you and still fewer
stays in you mind for a long time.Shawshank redemption managed to do
both.In my opinion "The Shawshank Redemption" is the best movie to be
made up to date.I don't really have to tell about Morgan Freeman,he is such a pleasure
to watch.Some scenes are so poignant that you forget yourself.I
particularly want to mention the scene in which Andy Dufresne plays the
music in the loud speaker so that the prisoners be able to hear the
wonderful music.The climax where Boyd Red reunites with Andy gives you a strange
melodramatic feeling which only movies like Shawshank
redemption,Forrest Gump gives.

******
12 May 2008
9
I was initially sceptical about watching this film, the movie's
advertisements never held much appeal for me but seeing as though I was
sitting bored on a Friday night I decided to give it a go.And from start to end I was engrossed The film really gives an accurate
interpretation to what life inside a maximum security prison would have
been like, I was left wincing several times during the inevitable
outbreak of violence. The film contains something for everyone, there's
sorrow, friendship, violence my main complaint was that there were a
few elements I did not understand, particularly in the scenes that
regard the accountancy work that the main character engages in.The acting was unforgettable, Tim Robbins deserves credit as the main
seemingly devoid of all feelings, yet with that certain characteristic
about him, Morgan Freeman as usual shines through as the man who can
'get things' and my personal favourite Clancy Brown as the sadistic
hard ass security captain.I recommend that everyone see this movie at least once, it is without a
doubt one of the great classics of our time.

******
25 April 2008
10
This movie is absolute perfection. The story is about a bank teller,
Andy, (Robbins)who is wrongfully imprisoned for life for the murder of
his wife and her lover. In prison, Red (Freeman) becomes his best
friend. The movie progresses by showing the life that Andy has to
endure in prison. For example, he becomes a prime target by a few
homicidal sodomites and obviously has to fight them off, which ends
with him in the infirmary.The movie is excellent because it shows a very accurate portrayal of
prison life, and the corruption within the prison by the blood thirsty
power crazed guards, and the so called religious and honest warden, who
is really a greedy sadistic manipulator who takes advantage of Andy by
forcing him to do his taxes and make him work to make him rich.This movie may very bell be the best movie you ever see. It's real,
it's dramatic, funny and has everything that a good drama needs. WATCH
IT!!!

******
18 April 2008
10
The Shawshank Redemption became one of my favorite movies years ago. As
I watched it again on a whim just now, it so shook me anew that I just
had to tell the world how I felt. What I felt was the same kind of awe and irrepressible reverberation in
my heart as when I listen to a Brahms symphony or when I see the
ceiling of the Sistine Chapel. This movie is art: it envelopes you,
shatters you, and consumes you. Speaking of Brahms, this movie maintains an almost Olympian pace
similar to that of the composer's great works. It propels the story
forward with engrossing tension but leaves room for reflections on
hope, despair and redemption. The spot-on pacing, which derives from a
serendipitously good combination of scripting, directing, acting and
editing, gives the movie the feel of an epic. It seems safe to declare that The Shawshank Redemption has achieved
immortality, and that is its best redemption from its box office
mediocrity 14 years ago.

******
13 April 2008
10
Perhaps the best line in the film can also be used to describe this
film; a caged bird (the film) that shouldn't be locked up (at the video
store)."The Shawshank Redemption" can be described in only one word: Powerful.It is my favorite movie.Let me give you a short summary. Andy Drufesne (pronounced Dufrene; and
played by Tim Robbins (Bull Durham)), the vice president of a large
Portland, Maine bank, is given a life sentence in Shawshank Prison
after he is accused of murdering his wife and her lover, run by
religious Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) and sadistic Captain Hadley
(Clancy Brown). He befriends fellow prisoner Red (Morgan Freeman
(Driving Miss Daisy)). Over a few decades, Andy befriends the inmates,
begins a library, education system and work program. But Andy is
innocent, and has trouble convincing the authorities of that, and the
film works up to the inspirational and excellent climax.Robbins and Freeman blend into their roles like chameleons, and the
script is well written.I will sum up the review in this one statement: go see it.You will not be disappointed.

******
29 March 2008
10
First I must say that The Shawshank redemption is with no doubt a
masterpiece.It is important to say that these days Hollywood is not
making quality artistic movies,it is all about blockbusters,high
budgets,commercial movies and special effects.Well,this movie on the
contorary is one of the most important films of the 90's and maybe the
most touching movie of all time.Full of or realist emotions this movie
touches the heart of the average viewer in a very impressive and
original way.It is a tale of hope and dreams of freedom.In 1994,almost
unknown Frank Dourbunt created a movie that changed the movie history
and showed to people that in the day of special effects and extremely
gory film there can be a film totally different from all the
others.Morgan Freeman and Tim Robins are great in this movie and they
really deserved numerous awards that they received for making this
film.There are many people who claimed that his movie changed their way
of living and thinking in a good way and that is the biggest thing that
a product of the 7th art can achieve.

******
27 March 2008
10
OK let me start with your most beloved TV shows.Like for example,mine
is friends.The last episode,the last season is always a heartbreaker,a
tearjerker where you look back upon all the wonderful times and cry
your heart out that it will never come back again.The shawshank
redemption does just that and believe me within a span of two hours.Man wherever he is,he is in heaven.He just realizes it after the time
has passed.You can kill man's body,you can kill's man mind,but how can
you kill hope.Man possesses a divine hope of spreading its wings into
the sky even in the darkest of clouds.Imprisonment of the senses is
possible,but how will you check the flow of love,it will flow till man
is alive.We wish for a better future,but we already know that we cannot
bid goodbye to our present,however wretched it is because we still have
something to live for to hope for each day.Wherever man goes,if he has
love in his heart,he finds love in others.Morgan freeman is as natural an actor as there has ever been one.The
sentiment of Stephen king has been instinctively been understood by
frank Darabont and the final product is a lifetime of emotional journey
through the eyes of a hopeful, Christ believing good man.

******
26 March 2008
10
My family told me this film was a deeply philosophical film which
required mature minds to be able to understand. I couldn't disagree
more. The Shawshank Redemption is about a man going to prison after
being found guilty of murder of his wife, later to be discovered he was
wrongly convicted. The story goes from Robbins being a small fish in a
big pond in the prison to being a respected figure throughout the film
and various events happening along the way. This picture is the only to
make me lie awake at night thinking about life and its dreams. I cried
during Shawshank and I'm proud of it, I've never felt so passionate
about life and its important things. The Shawshank Redemption is about
Love For Friends, Hope, Death, Humanity and Loss. Thank You

******
20 March 2008
10
1994 was surely a memory of great movies. From blockbuster epics like
Speed proving to audience that young actors like Keanu Reeves can
dominate the spotlight to The Lion King where mixing Shakespeare with
animation can be a triumph. It was also the year of memorable movies
from "Forrest Gump" where retards and idiots can make a difference;
"Pulp Fiction" was a wild ride filled with violence and language to
make you have nightmares; "Quiz Show" questioned the stunts on game
shows; "Four Weddings and A Funeral" proved to be a barrel of laughs
and "The Shawshank Redemption" proves that drama takes place in all
sides and all directions.The films I placed in quotations where nominated for the Academy Award
for Best Picture in 1995. "Gump" was the big winner taking home more
awards and proving that a person of idiocy and a strong heart can
change a person's life; "Pulp" won the original screenplay making
Tarantino a star; "Quiz Show" and "Funerals" had less nominations but
no wins. "Shawshank" is remembered for being a small movie with so many
nominations that it didn't receive one award! Not One! There's a thing
with certain movies where once they became failures, they become cult
classics. The Shawshank Redemption is one of those movies.Based on the novel by Stephen King, the film starts in the late 1940's
about a hot shot banker by the name of Andy Dufrense (a superb Tim
Robbins) who comes home drunk one night before finding his wife along
with another man dead. By the time the cops arrive, they see that Andy
has a gun with several bullets on the floor. They arrest him, but Andy
didn't commit the crime where after a trial hearing, he is sent to
Shawshank prison where his sentence is double life; one for each of his
victims.Andy is the fresh meat in Shawshank along with a couple of new inmates
where they meet with Warden Norton (Bob Gunton), one real mean S.O.B.
who believes in two things: Discipline and the bible. Norton's right
hand man Captain Hadley (Clancy Brown) is the true shark of the
institution where prisoners think of the warden as child's play
compared to the captain who harasses all of the inmates. Andy meets
several old inmates from Ellis Boyd Redding, or Red (played wonderfully
by Morgan Freeman), who's doing time from murder where he's the inmates
right hand man in terms of getting items from toothpicks to cigarettes
and knowing everything about everyone. There's also Brooks (James
Whitmore), the old-timer who plays an important part of the prison
where everybody looks up to him. As each decade passes, Andy gets the
prison involved in several little projects from helping the warden
along with the guards and staff with their taxes to creating a public
library for the prisoners where secrets are being kept from the hero.
There's even a new inmate who enters Shawshank in the 1960's who knows
the truth about Andy being set-up. Only time will tell when Andy will
be released from prison along with having one of the most satisfying
climaxes in movie or jail history.This movie really deserves all the attention it earns.

******
5 March 2008
10
This movie was easily the best one based on a Stephen King and Frank
Darabont screenplay. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman act very well
together as best friends who find a way to deal with their difficult
circumstances. Morgan Freeman's name in the movie is Ellis Boyd "Red"
Redding. He is a person who can get you things, for a profit. Tim
Robbins' name in the movie is Andrew Dufresne. He is someone accused of
killing his wife. Andy asks Red to get him such items as a small rock
hammer and posters of famous starlets. Red is someone disillusioned by
the racist prison system, and serves as the main narrator for the film.
This places the audience deeply inside the minds of the protagonists
and even of the villains. I thought that Frank Darabont's directing was
excellent. While close to three hours, it is time well spent as the
movie is well written, well cast, and well directed. A solid 10/10 and
recommended purchase.

******
2 March 2008
10
TITLE: The Shawshank Redemption COUNTRY: USA YEAR: 1994 RATING: 10/10For me, the key to a good film can be found on the way the story is
told, which is to say, the development of the script. Sometimes when we
think of movie classics we always tend to associate with complex plots
while forgetting that simplicity can also mean greatness. A few days
back, after watching "Sunset Boulevard" I could not stop thinking how a
simple story could have been so well written and shot. I feel the same
about "The Shawshank Redemption". The story, per se, is absolutely
ordinary. In the hands of others it could have resulted in a bland
product. But with wonderful writing and filming the story reached an
entirely different level of density. It's the audience gain and the
movie industry too.

******
29 February 2008
10
Hope is a good thing - this is the best quote for me from the movie.
When I am depressed, I watch this movie, and there is not a single time
I have not felt good.From the very first scene, with a drunk and disturbed Andy, to the last
scene, with a free and relieved Andy - I enjoy all the moments. You
don't watch some movies, but you start feeling them, and believe me, it
is one of them. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are exceedingly good in
this movies and so is the storyline. Some of the best moments of the
movie are - Andy winning beer for his co-workers (yes, Andy refers to
his prison mates as co-workers), Andy resisting the violent
advancements from the homosexual prisoners and getting beaten up each
time but still never giving up, Andy playing the music record without
giving an ear to the warden, Brooks struggling to live his post-prison
life and finally committing suicide, the warden madly asking the poster
about Andy and finally discovering the tunnel, Red getting the parole
approved, Red finding the stone and Andy's stuffs and above all, Morgan
Freeman's narration. The script of the narration is brilliant and
Morgan Freeman's baritone gives it the needed effect.If you love true cinema, this is a movie for you. If you have not
watched it, do it now!!! If you have watched it, I am sure you must
have done it more than once. The movie deserves it...

******
28 February 2008
10
Its difficult to put a finger on what exactly it was about The
Shawshank Redemption that I fell so in love with that I have seen it
over and over again and every time there was a new element in the movie
that fascinated me.A seemingly simple story of two men in prison and their lives over a
period of twenty years.But presented with such elegance that you can
actually relate with all the characters and feel bad for them,love
them,hate them.A superb movie and an ever better adaptation of a
Stephen King novella,beating even one of my personal favorites 'The
Green Mile' in the process.The development of the characters is so
realistic that you can actually see them aging,physically and
emotionally,throughout the length of the movie.The story,in spite of
its simplicity,keeps you glued to the screen due to the brilliant
handling of the main plot and various sub plots and how they come
together in the end.Every small,seemingly insignificant element merges
seamlessly with the story which is rare to see in any movie these
days.The lead actors,Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman both are at their
best,although the better actor without a doubt is Tim Robbins playing
an incredibly complex character and looking at ease throughout.This is the kind of movie that you will think and talk about long after
you are done watching it.The theme of never losing hope is somewhat a
lesson to all of us.I wouldn't dream of letting out the plot in anyway
because if you haven't seen the movie yet,just go and watch it.It will
move you and amaze you like nothing you have ever experienced.10/10..simply brilliant..

******
28 February 2008
10
Andy is a former banker accused of killing his wife and he goes to
prison. They are all innocent of course. He is treated poorly as a lot
of prisoners are but he forms bonds with other inmates, especially an
inmate named Red. From within the prison Andy helps with the formation
of a library and helps others with money woes. There are good positive
things in this movie but for the most part, it is a dark and cruel
movie. It has a certain sadness that brings about it's greatness. The
most important thing about this movie are the friendships that develop
within a dark place. I liked Jake a lot and thought that was such a
metaphor for freedom although Brooks didn't know any other life. I also
loved the ending and thought that it was the perfect way to end a
movie.

******
17 February 2008
10
It was really the film I ever watched, and here is why.Tim Robbins stars as Andy Dufresne, a successful young banker who is
sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her
lover. Andy is sent to Shawshank prison, a dour and depressing place
where brutality from both guards and other prisoners is commonplace.
Andy makes friends with Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), a
lifer who has already spent many years inside. Red specializes in
smuggling items into the prison for the other prisoners. Red soon
discovers that Andy is a most unusual prisoner, although at first it
seems to do him little good - he is brutalized by other prisoners He
starts to get both other prisoners and guards on his side when he
offers to help one of the most notorious guards with a tax problem in
exchange for bottles of chilled beer for everyone in his work party.
From then on, Andy always seems to be working on one thing or another.
He improves the prison's tiny library, and helps those prisoners who
want to study. He also handles the guards' tax returns, and even helps
the swindling Warden (Bob Gunton) cook the books. Over the years, he
gains the respect of most of the other prisoners and guards. More
importantly, he never loses hope for the future - a hope he tries to
pass on to the other prisoners. He never stops believing in life's
possibilities, but to make the most of them he needs to be free.Based on the Stephen King (non-horror) novella "Rita Hayworth and the
Shawshank Redemption", this is a simple story of hope made remarkable
by the interaction between the two lead characters. Both Tim Robbins
and Morgan Freeman do a fine job in terms of making their roles genuine
and appealing, and also in the way they work so well together. The
production values throughout are outstanding, but this is not a "fancy"
film. Rather, it sticks to the story it is telling without resorting to
flashy tricks to grab the audience's attention. Although there is
violence, some of it extreme, it is necessary to show the kind of place
the prison is and is certainly not gratuitous. The main theme is hope,
not despair, and the violence serves only as a backdrop to that
message. Unashamedly a feel good movie, by the end one is wishing only
that it would continue for a few more moments.Bijan Shahrokhi

******
6 February 2008
10
film which would touch your heart would inspire you and lead your
vision to the world where every problem can be solved and you will get
what you deserve if u had little faith and patience . this will make u
realize that how patience can be sometime more effective than nuclear
bombstory revolves around a guy(Tim Robbins) who is in prison for
committing murder of his wife trying to survive prison and as time pass
by he is actually running all the funds of the prison ,morgan freeman
is one of his mates in the movie and has done full justice to his
character with some turns and twist in end story is ended beautifully
and with utmost perfection .in brief i would say If u want to see the movie with perfect storyline with perfect
execution,with perfect characters for each role, with the perfect
dialogs this is the perfect movie u should watch if u haven't seen yet
this is the PERFECT time

******
3 February 2008
10
Kids who play unorganized games of baseball, basketball, or football
will often make use of a "do over". The "do over" happens when the kids
can't agree on exactly how legal a play was, whether there was a
penalty, or what exactly happened. That particular play is forgotten
and the game proceeds. This film is about a life "do over".By all measures Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) was successful: he was a
banker, married to a beautiful wife, and living in a pleasant home.
When his wife is murdered, he is convicted and sent to prison. While
not guilty of murder, he convicts himself for neglecting his wife and -
it is hinted - his privileged life. Prison forms the environment for
even harsher penalties for this crime. Ironically in his endurance Andy
finds a deeper appreciation for simpler things: friendship, opera
arias, and a cold beer after hard work on a hot day.Red (Morgan Freeman) is also serving a life sentence for murder. He
slowly becomes Andy's best friend. Red is the prison's unofficial
retailer and a peerless guide for Andy in survival. It is through Red
that Andy gathers a close ring of friends.Andy's hope is born from the prison warden's avarice and hypocrisy.
Using his banking skills Andy is able to reward the warden's greed and
his friends. Andy organizes a prison library where Red and his circle
work.Andy realizes he must act after the Warden reveals the full extent of
his insatiably evil appetite by murdering the only person who could
prove his innocence.This is a long movie but like all great movies that isn't noticed.
While it is guilty of being in the common genre of prison movies and
having the sort of clichéd ending for which Hollywood is canonized,
lionized, cursed and scandalized, the true measure of this movie is
that it still delivers a potent story. This is hope for the hopeless.Zihuatanejo!

******
3 February 2008
10
I've seen thousands of films and this is by far one of the best I've
ever seen. This is one of the rare films that was better than the book.
It was taken from Stephen Kings short story "Rita Heyworth and the
Shawshank Redemption" I am a huge Stephen King fan and also enjoyed the
story very much. This movie blew me away. I'm not a big Tim Robbins fan
but he is perfect fit this role. Morgan Freeman is great in this just
like he is in everything he does. This film has some of the best lines
in it. When Morgan Freeman is narrating and says "The only one I know
that could crawl through a river of $hit and come out clean on the
other side..." It gives me goosebumps. If you have never seen this you
should go out and buy it today.

******
21 January 2008
10
Deserves an Oscar for the vignette around Brooks Hatlen alone. When
film students begin the path of learning about the art of motion
pictures, they would be well served to study this as an example of what
can be accomplished by a master craftsman.Using a simple plot as a foundation around which all the necessary
detail and thoughtful insight of human conditions can be layered, this
is the closest you can come to telling a story flawlessly on film.Screw all that. How good is it? Every single time I'm flipping through
the channels and I see it's on, it doesn't matter where it is in the
plot or time-line, I stop and watch.Every time.

******
18 January 2008
10
Along with The Green Mile, another excellent Frank Darabont adaptation
of a Stephen King story, Shawshank is a masterful and thought provoking
film.Everyone in Shawshank is innocent you see - except Red (Morgan
Freeman). The casting for this film, like Green Mile, is nigh on
perfect and helps to create a fully believable tale about one man's
fight to prove his innocence against a system that doesn't even care.Morgan Freeman is masterful in his role as Red, one of his best ever,
and despite originally intended to be an Irishman (you would expect
Caucasian) is brilliant. See Driving Miss Daisy to re-affirm his acting
skills.Tim Robbins, as Andy Dufresne, is excellently cast in the role of an
innocent man, a successful banker, jailed for two life terms (in 1948)
for the murder of his wife and her lover. Being innocent doesn't count
and Andy is locked up in the hell-hole Shawshank prison. But his
innocence is a driving force. Like a bird - Andy wants to be free.To say the sets are impressive is a major understatement. While the
exterior shots are of a renovated Gothic prison, the interiors are
nearly entirely built on a sound-stage. The production design is
top-notch. You never want to go to a prison like Shawshank.The Warden (Bob Gunton) is a real peace of work - a corrupt official
hiding behind The Bible. Clancy Brown (Captain Hadley) is a nice bloke
in real life - you would not think it for he is very sinister in this
role.Veteran actor James Whitmore as Brooks Hatlen delivers one of his
finest performance in his long career - "institunalised" after spending
most of his life behind bars - 50 at Shawshank. The world all these
years later is a shock to Brooks that has sad, no tragic, consequences.Overall this rather long film reeks of quality. Great cast, story,
acting, production design, direction.Highly recommended - must see really - and one of my favourite
"serious" films of all time. After I finish this I will put The Green
Mile on to make the evening perfect.Rating: 10/10

******
18 January 2008
10
What can you say that others haven't said about this film? (I notice
there are 200 pages of comments). I'll try this: It is, quite simply,
the best movie ever made. I have never seen a list of best films that
didn't include it, and don't expect to until I'm very old.You can't go far wrong with great actors in a great story; add in great
direction and great cinematography, and you have a classic. For me to
say that a movie is better than 'Casablanca' is quite something, but
this is it. There aren't many films that have had their titles changed
either, but down the years this one has simply become known as
"Shawshank".Just a final note to mention James Whitmore, often overlooked in all
the praise that has been heaped on the other leads. How he didn't win a
gong for his portrayal of the prison librarian I will never know. Yet
another inexplicable miss by the Academy.

******
16 January 2008
10
That's right, this film is so amazing, it doesn't need to stand behind
a flashy tag line in a review. this film can speak for itself, Frank
Darabont's true masterpiece.Tim Robbins gives an Oscar-gypt'd performance as Andy Dufresne, an
upstanding banker, framed for murder and sentenced to two life terms.
There he meets Red (played by the immortal Mr. Morgan Freeman, who
gives us the best voice-overs in movie history.) In prison, Dufresne
becomes well known with the inmates for his courage, after being raped
basically everyday for a month, and hope that the justice system will
see him through.This film is a true masterpiece that can only come from years in the
movie business, but Frank had close to none. He had only done two films
before that weren't very good, I guess this proves what you can do with
raw talent today.

******
30 December 2007
9
I remember seeing this movie back when it first came out. I have
watched it several times since then. I really like this movie, but in
my opinion their are a lot of movies that are much better. When I look
at the top 250 I cringe at this one. I think that movies like this
belong among the top 250, but I feel that this one lacks what is needed
to be towards the top of that list. Movies such as citizen kane,
clockwork orange, or pulp fiction should not be lower on the list than
this one. A good movie is one that is well written and acted. A great
movie is one that redefines movie making and does something that has
not been done before, or at least something that is going to be
remembered forever. The godfather deserves top billing on the list. It
was very well written, very real and had lines that are repeated daily
in movies, television or in talk around the coffee pot. All I remember
from shawshank is Tim Robbins hands in the air after he escapes.

******
1 December 2007
10
There is something about this movie that always hits me. Probably cause
it's a wonderful metaphor of most of man's existence. I've seen it many
times during the years and the last one was even more beautiful than I
remembered. So astonishing it didn't win any Academy Award, but very
often this is the price really good movies have to pay, and certainly
Shawshank has not much of appealing when glamorous, star system slaves
decide what is worth and what is not. Probably if this movie was
released nowadays it would have received more attention from the public
(see the contents of recent nominees for best film in the last two
Academy Award Night editions). However... A movie is great when you it
keeps on flashing in your mind for the following days while you are
working or doing something else. The best quote from it, according to
me, is "Get busy living.. or get busy dying". Revealing.

******
6 November 2007
10
I have to say that at first, I thought this movie would be boring. The
storyline seemed so plain to me that I thought it was just one of those
movies I would fall asleep to. But, one day, I decided to give this
movie a shot. The storyline was simple as I had expected it to be but
the director definitely did a good job in keeping it interesting all
the same. The acting was flawless and even though the ending was a
little bit too 'happy' for me, it didn't hurt the movie as a whole.
It's not the best drama I've seen in my life, but it's definitely a
movie that will keep you entertained and make you think about certain
things in life.

******
2 November 2007
10
I saw this movie while still in university, kind of gloomy at first.
while after several unexpected sharp turns , everything is clear with
the sun rising above the horizon. I was totally shocked by the
development of the plot with the protagonist trying an unusual means to
get out of the prison and finally realized his dream of being free ,
unbelievable and amazing! Redemption of the sincere prisoners.
Redemption of justice. With the movie coming to an end, the bad were
doomed, the good were redemption ed. It should be like this. Life
cycles. Man proposes, God deposes. That is the meaning of life, I think
so.Meanwhile, without the support of these two excellent main
characters, this movie can hardly be as good as this.

******
23 June 2007
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of those perfect movies and an example
of a movie that does not need CGI and a lot money to make it Oscar
worthy, though it is. I've seen it 3 or 4 times in 2 and a half years
and it's still not getting old. I believe this movie was a masterpiece
for everyone associated. Tim Robbins was truly spectacular in this as
was Morgan Freeman, who proves he is one of the true talents out in
Hollywood. They were both deserving of Academy Award nomination, though
Freeman received one. I can't still comprehend how it didn't win ANY
Oscars, though it certainly deserved Best Picture and 4 or 5 other
Oscars. But this is another example of movies being shot down at the
Oscars by fell good movies, such as Forest Gump. Nonetheless, this
movie is a story about hope and how important not giving up is. Andy
Dufresne is one of the most interesting characters of the 1990's and
this role and the role of Ellis "Red" Redding were written perfectly
for the acting talents of Robbins and the Freeman. I am grateful to for
Frank Darabont for directing a movie that is a stunning as Shawshank. I
also applaud the other actors, the cinematography, editing, and sound
that went into the making of this movie. Though I remain bitter over
what the Oscar did to this movie, I will continue to put the Shawshank
Redemption up in my favorite list, and praise it as a true masterpiece.
10/10

******
3 May 2007
10
This is the best movie I've ever seen, actually, I think it surpassed
the Godfather. There are four things that I liked about this movie.
1)The storyline is terrific and unique. A former banker went into
prison of murdering his wife, but he hasn't done all of that. We
haven't seen this kind of movie yet. 2)The theme. The movie is about
prison, in our impression, prison is a bad place, and everybody that
went to prison will be desperate. But not Andy, he got along with those
prisoners, and kept thinking about escape. That educates the people,
don't give up hope. 3)The character. The main characters were
impressive, Andy: He was well-educated, and unlucky, hopeful, and
intelligent. Red: He was friendly, smart, but he wasn't hopeful. He
didn't know what to do after the parole. Anyway, he overcame it at
last. 4)The acting: Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman did an excellent job
in acting, and every single character in the Shawshank Redemption did
well. Well, I think this movie has taken Godfather's place, to be the
best movie I've ever seen.

******
28 April 2007
8
Loosely based on a 120 page novella by Steven king, The Shawshank
Redemption (1994)masterfully present the concept of survival through
the twists of hope and despair. Welcome to Shawshank prison where Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is a new convict, doing life for killing his
wife. Long termer Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding bets against Andy surviving
the first night. This won't be the last time Red underestimates Andy,
an error Red makes in good company. Corrupt Warden Samuel Norton (Bob
Gunton) and Corrections Captain Byron T. Hadley (Clancy Brown) may
share in Red's mistake.The walls they become a part of you, warns Red. First you fight them,
then you accommodate yourself to them and finally you can't live
without them.James Whitmore renders a bravura performance in the poignant
sub-plotted tragedy of Brooks Hatlen.There are significant deviations from Steven King's story line. Even
so, both the movie and the novella are superior works independent of
each other.The performance here rivals or exceeds King's other prison yarn The
Green Mile.

******
28 April 2007
10
Year after another this movie has defended its place on IMDb's Top 250
movies of all time -list and it has done in at the second place. Is
there anyone who finds it kinda odd that it's on the second place
rather than the first one? I mean, at the Top 250 -list this and
"Godfather" has the rating of 9.1, but when you click on "The Shawshank
Redemption" it seems to have the rating of 9.2 and even more votes than
"Godfather". Is it just that the staff at IMDb has just simply
forgotten to update the list? Well anyways, to the review itself. I
just watched this movie last night and I've seen it once before as
well, as I am indeed the proud owner of the DVD. The movie is just pure
excellence, or at least for me and it is no wonder it's ranked so high
at IMDb. A perfect example of the fact that Stephen King is not just a
writer of horror.What probably amazes me the most in this movie is that it's just so
very well written. I mean, I think that a screenplay couldn't be more
perfect than it is in this movie. It's just so good that it makes you
smile throughout the movie, it just flows through so smoothly that it
makes you think "How on earth can it be this good?" Pieces of the
puzzle connect together in a rhythmic way, which make your eyes freeze
because of the harmonic perfection it provides, it makes you show your
emotions: It makes you sad, it makes you angry and it makes you laugh.
It's just so good you don't want it to end. Just pure completeness.The cast is just superb, every right actor for the right role. I must
admit that I've never liked Tim Robbins so much, but in this movie the
role given to him is just perfect and the role performance he does is
his best yet to date. No other person can make that cold glance he does
with his eyes, the whole cold substance he has. There is just something
so spooky in him. Even when Tim Robbins does a great job, even more
greater job does the all mighty Morgan Freeman, who I think is one of
the best actors in the history of the movies. The man just doesn't have
a bad role performance, maybe even not an average one. His role
performance as "Red", the provider of things at Shawshank prison, is
for me just so ideal. I think that the choice of him being the narrator
in the monologue is just brilliant. Morgan Freeman's voice is just so
fitting to this movie that it almost makes your skin tremble. The
monologue itself is also very well written and it progresses itself
among the whole screenplay in a so magnificent way that.. Well, I
already told you about the completeness.The one who is in charge of the music is the composer Thomas Newman,
who I think is the perfect choice for composing the music to a movie
like this. If I had to choose someone else, I think the closest one
would be Micheal Giacchino, but I can't even think about that so much
as the music in this movie is just so amazing in the way it is. The
main theme of the composition is just beautiful and the whole
soundtrack just simple blows you away. The chords build up this
entirety and changing variations throughout the movie which can only be
envied because of the beauty of it. Just brilliant.I can't praise this movie enough, I feel like I'm still not
complimenting it enough, but in the matter of fact that's all I've done
in this review. I have to mention the directing as well. It's just so
smooth it collaborates with the screenplay so well, that it just is a
real pleasure for the eyes. The director Frank Darabont really, quoting
all the cliché's of complimenting, really captures the essence of this
movie. It's just not the parts which make you the most amazed, it's
honestly the whole movie. I can't say directing could be more perfect
because it just is. In my opinion anyways.If you haven't seen this movie, you've really missed a masterpiece in
the history of movies. I tried to write this review without giving away
any spoilers, as the plot has some twists and tweaks in it as well, so
it's also very original. Just see this movie and you will finally
understand how it is on the second place at IMDb.The Shawshank Redemption shines even after 13 years.

******
27 April 2007
10
The greatness of this movie is beyond the stellar acting of Tim and
Morgan, the remarkable story of Stephen King, the flawless screenplay
or the wonderful direction of Darabont. The Shawshank Redemption is one
of the most beloved movies ever because it awakes something in the
viewer.The Shawshank Redemption is my favorite movie ever. I feel blessed
because I was one of the few people that actually saw it in theaters in
1994, when it was considered a flop. I was 14 years old, and i saw it
alone in an almost empty Morehouse. Don't ask me why I watched it, but
to this day I remember what I felt inside that theater. I recalled
feeling different, somewhat inspired and anxious to talk to someone
about my experience. I bet every Shawshank lover remembers the first
time they saw it, because is unforgettable and moving.You can say that thanks to Shawshank I felt in love with movies, and
the art of movie-making. After Shawshank I have seen thousands of
movies, amazing movies... I felt in love with Hitchcock, and discovered
the classics of Wilder and Capra, felt amazed with the creativity of
Almodovar and Jeunet, but to this day I had yet to experience the same
sensation of hope and wonder that I felt in that empty movie theater
more than 10 years ago. If you haven't seen this movie, buy it, because
you will want to see it again and again.

******
25 April 2007
10
This story takes place in prison but that is not to say it is a prison
movie, because The Shawshank Redemption is so much more.In all reality this movie is a story about human nature at it's worst
and best. It's about friendship and loss, full of emotion, irony, humor
and nostalgia. All wrapped around one hell of a satisfying plot twist
and revenge sequence against the story's antagonists you'll probably
ever see.The icing on this scrumptious cake is one hell of a divine original
scoring from composer Thomas Newman, the man who scored The Green Mile
and American Beauty. It is haunting and often very moving. I realize
that for many people one small segment of music in even a great film
isn't enough to invoke a desire to watch the entire film. However there
is a approximately 10 second segment of the score near the end of the
film that will break your heart. You'll know which segment I mean if
you see this film and if you're the right kind of person with a good
soul, it will move you to tears. Somehow the movie manages to pull off an epic feel despite the backdrop
being prison bars and walls. You really feel you've gone through the
years with the two main characters in the film, by the end you really
feel for these characters as if they were your friends. Making the end
of their journey in this film affect you strongly. I would call this the best prison movie ever but for the fact that it
really isn't a prison movie more than truly magnificent story that
happens to take place in prison. This is however one of the best films
ever made and I highly recommend it. This movie, especially the last 15
or 20 minutes will stay with you for years to come. It haunts me to
this day.

******
22 April 2007
10
The Shawshank Redemption has taken place as my number 1 favourite film.
I was really looking forward to seeing this and when I did, I knew I
was in for a treat. This is easily the best film ever made. It's very
moving and inspiring. This movie has no action scenes, just men in a
prison who chat but not for one second i was bored. Frank Darabont is a
great director, as he also made The Green Mile. The fact that this
didn't win the seven Oscars it was nominated for makes my blood boil.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give very memorable performances in
their roles. The narration, the direction, everything is flawless. The
ending is very heart-warming and happy.This is the best book-to-movie adaption I've ever seen. Infinity times
better than The Cat in the Hat (as that is the worst film I've ever
seen.) It doesn't surprise me that it is #2 on the IMDb top 250. i
recommend this to everyone who hasn't seen it. As said in my summary
and the start of the review, it's not only my favourite film of the
90's. It's my favourite film of all time. You know, I'm giving this
10/5. It's just that good.

******
20 April 2007
10
This is definitely the best film I have ever seen, Tim Robbins Plays
the Best Role Of His Career Portraying A Convicted Murderer In
Shawshank Prison, The relationship with him and "Red" grows through the
movie, there are many ups and downs through his prison life and he
comes through most of them, Tommy gives him hope of finally being free
but the idea is foiled after not long. Then a perfect ending follows.
Quotes Such as "Get Busy Livin', Or get Busy Dyin'" and "Hope Is A Good
Thing, Maybe The Best Of Things, And No Good Thing Ever Dies" more
memorable from this movietruly amazing film I would recommend it to anyone, of you haven't seen
this you must watch it before you die!!!

******
13 April 2007
10
The Shawshank Redemption...where to begin? This is one of the best
movies I've ever seen, it is an artistic masterpiece, both in story and
it's visual elements.I am a fan of the Stephen King short story from Different Seasons (if
you have not read it, go out and do yourself a favor!), and I was very
pleased with Frank Darabont's take on the story. It remains true to the
story, and even improves it, I think.The acting was also spectacular. Tim Robbins was phenomenal in the lead
as Andy Dusfrene. He plays a great confident and quiet man, who has a
hope, even when everything is stripped from him (the short story was in
the section: 'Hope Springs Eternal').Morgan Freeman is also great in this film. One of Frank Darabont (or is
casting director) great improvements to the film. In the story, Red,
who Morgan Freeman plays superbly, is an Irish white man. I like it a
lot better with Morgan Freeman. I can't imagine anyone else. And I
cannot forget about the supporting cast. This film didn't have a bad
performance. I really recommend that you see this. It is a cinematic masterpiece
that will please anyone who has a heart. Please, do yourself a favor
and see this great film by the great Frank Darabont!

******
4 April 2007
10
Usually when i watch a film i become analytical of certain aspects (ie
acting, direction etc.) but on this occasion I totally became lost in
the film, totally gripped by the drama and storyline. It's not often
you can become lost in a film lot but this totally draws you in.Probably the best film I have ever seen and a 10 out of 10 is certainly
rare by anyones standards. Not often can a film hit such a wide
audience like this one can. It is truly versatile in its production.Well casted, the characters are totally believable and at no time can
you doubt a reaction or performance.If you haven't seen this yet, you must watch as soon as possible!

******
1 April 2007
10
I only just viewed this film, which my mum said would be good watch in
my revision breaks. And it is! its very hooking in the sense that you
cant stop once you begun, but i had to as i did an hour of revising
before hand, having 30mins of viewing time. Then i gave up revising
when i had enough of this stop start routine and watched it through.
And i think its influential to any type of person out there, and if you
have time to watch it. As its most probable my "now" favourite film. As
i really like horrors and sci-fi's i thought i wouldn't like this. but
anything that Stephen King writes or Frank Darabont directs.I recommend this to anyone.

******
31 March 2007
10
Firstly, I must acknowledge that nothing should be called perfect, only
the best, as its probable the future may....... most unlikely i should
state, produce something greater. However Shawshank is definitely at
this point THE BEST and to lift its rating i have only the option of
10/10... I'd give her a 9.7. Others may have one or two greater
aspects, but will be beaten in a strait up 'whats better and why'. The
co-inhabitant of the number one spot here is THE GODFATHER, a movie
which is great, fantastic, a masterpiece..... it had a pretty good lead
in with a couple of reasonably successful books i think (snigger).
Shawshank on the other hand is a quiet adaption of a little story by
Stephen King; yes it had a base but got nowhere in its original
cinematic run and is atop so many greatest movie lists because all who
see it fall for it and force it upon all the meet that haven't seen it.
Simple! There are many great movies (I just watched 'Children of men'
and it was friggin great, poetic in its progression...), but you cant
go past Morgan Freeman's magnetic narration as 'Red' and Tim Robbins'
turn as 'Andy Dufresne', dignity personified....I think the best thing for all good kiddies is to watch Redemption and
then try, one by one, to challenge all your other favorites against
this masterpiece. Oh and didn't i mention there's a twist to rival 'the
usual suspects', 'primal fear', 'fight club', the sixth sense' and 'the
village'... ONLY JOKING THE VILLAGE IS SO AMAZING, AMAZINGLY,
INCREDIBLY STUPID STUPID STUPID I CANT BELIEVE I Didn't HAVE A VIOLENT
OUTBURST IN PUBLIC AFTER I SAW IT!!!! oh, hang on, that was quite
therapeutic....Anyway i just put The Shank on for my girlfriend and its just so
fullfillin (spelling?? ha) a flick for all ur couch lovin souls.

******
26 February 2007
8
#2 out of 250... dnt get me wrong the movie is great, but I cant
imagine how this movie is so well liked. sure it has a great story
line, plot, and ending. everything a good movie needs. but it is all
talk. every part is predictable. i knew right from the beginning that
the one new cell mate who told Andy hes innocent was going to be shot
and killed. yadayadayada was all i heard for the 2hr 30 min movie. i
loved it, but expected a lot more after reading the comments before
watching... i don't know why, but i just expected more from this film.
i just felt that it culd have gone the extra mile and be deserving of
the best film ever made.

******
10 February 2007
10
When ever anyone asks me what movies I've really enjoyed "The Shawshank
Redemption" is at the top of my list.Funnily though, it starts of with what almost seems like a 'B' movie
murder, at least the way the initial scene and the acting unfolds. The
first time I saw it I thought I was in for a disappointment but how
wrong I was. It's a sweet ride all the way to the finish...and it's a
long way to the finish. But anytime the story hints at dragging a bit
(and it does on occasion) the plot shifts and goes off on a new tack.The acting by all is superb. The story is great with a totally 'didn't
see it coming' surprise leading to the conclusion, and you will
empathize with Tim Robins in the lead role. Morgan Freeman is excellent
as supporting actor and nicely ties it all together as the voice-over
narration to gap the time intervals between different chronological
scenes. After all, the story does span a period from the late 40s to
the 70s. Yeah, it's somewhat of a sprawling epic but in a microcosm.This is a truly great film, a classic now and for years to come. I
can't believe that it lost the Oscar to "Forrest Gump".

******
30 January 2007
10
Far and away, "The Shawshank Redemption" deserved, with every fiber of
its being, to win the Best Picture Oscar for 1994. Morgan Freeman, who,
until "Million Dollar Baby," had been robbed of an Oscar for films such
as "Driving Miss Daisy," had his pinnacle performance for "TSR."
Beautifully crafted, totally captivating, and flowing effortlessly with
Freeman's narration, "TSR," for all its gray colors, paints an
exuberant portrait of life behind bars--the wrongly convicted Andy
Dufrane (Tim Robbins) adapts to prison life, all the while calculating
an escape that spans three decades. Keeping his friends close, and
enemies closer, Dufrane takes a seemingly innocent hobby and turns it
into a redemption that takes him to Mexico, with Red (Freeman) serving
his time and following suit.If there is a film that speaks more to the believer in all of us, I
haven't encountered it yet. It doesn't matter what hour of the evening,
or what mood I'm in, if "TSR" is playing...I'm watching, and loving it
just as much as the first time around.It's been fourteen years...if you haven't seen it, ask yourself, "What
the hell's wrong with me?"

******
30 January 2007
8
This movie shows a great friendship between main characters Red and
Andy. People should strive to gain an understanding and have immense
respect for one another. Andy gave hope to Red throughout their
friendship. I learned there is a right moment for everything, because
Andy planned to escape from the prison when no one had any idea. When
the warden was caught saving that money, by filing false claims, he
ended up killing himself. This shows that justice seeks to find itself
in the end. This movie was shocking, because no one would have thought
about how Andy planned his escape. However, if you watched the movie
closely you could see hints about how Andy was strategic on his every
move,like a chess game is played out.

******
26 January 2007
10
Andy Dufrunse (a young banker) is convicted for the murder of his wife
and her secret lover, and is given a life imprisonment sentence which
he will serve back to back. At Shawshank prison, he befriends the
prison hustler, Red (who is known for getting things). Andy soon
becomes a respected prisoner at Shawshank, he sets up the library, does
tax returns for prison Warderns, helps fellow prisoners pass their
collage degrees and so forth. His friendship with Red grows stronger.
Red and his crew suspect that Andy is about to reach a breakdown... you
will also think alike as well - given the set up of the film. But wait
a minute, the film delivers a killer twist that will leave your mouth
wide open... you will be amazed just how little it takes to break
through toughest prison walls. I

******
24 January 2007
10
Best movie I have ever seen.If you did not see it you don't know what
your missing out on. I can't believe I waited this long to watch this
movie. But I saw it was going to be on TV tonight so I sat down and
watched it. It was time well spent. The acting was excellent
(especially Tim Robbins), the storyline was interesting...everything
was great. As another reviewer mentioned, the time flies by when you're
watching it. When the movie finished, I looked at the clock and was
amazed that 3 hours had gone by. A movie about life, about freedom and
about friendship. This movie is just perfect.Each time i see it, i
learn something else. This movie gives you a different meaning about
freedom. Great performances of Morgan Freeman

******
20 January 2007
10
Frank Darabont is a truly brilliant director and adapter of Stephen
King's more dramatic books. After I saw the masterpiece that was The
Green Mile I had to see this movie, I just had to. Now that I have I am
truly glad I did. Tied with Requiem for a Dream, this is also my
favourite movie and a movie I would recommend to anyone and everyone.
Everything about it is perfect. From the inspirational performances
from the perfect cast (Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman being the obvious
stand-outs), the dialogue, the moving score and Frank Darabont's
excellent direction there is no flaw in this movie.There are no special effects in this, no action, just men in a prison
who talk. But it's what they talk about that matters. All these
beautiful themes of friendship, hardship, hope and freedom are in all
these prisoners who we all come to love (well, most). Thomas Newman
provides us with a gentle and utterly beautiful score. It is truly hard
to believe this didn't sweep the Oscars (not that it matters). Tim
Robbins gives his greatest performance in this film, it's truly moving
and he just embraces his character. Morgan Freeman also gives a
performance to remember and his narration couldn't have been done
better by anyone else, it's a beautiful thing that helps carry the
movie.5/5. I urge people who haven't seen it to see it immediately, you will
not regret it.

******
16 January 2007
10
i just love this movie. It is a must see for absolutely everyone. even
if you end up hating it you will be better off seeing it than not :)
there are reasons why the film should not have worked and reasons why
it should, but because of the brilliant cast and excellent directing
and adaption of Stephen kings novella this has become one of the best
films ever created and is superb in its entirety. i remember watching
it for the first time when i was about 15 years old and it had been
recorded and i missed the ending of the film, it cut out just after
Andy fell out of the sewage pipe in his escape. I couldn't believe it,
i had to spend ages trying to attain a copy of the film so i could
finish watching it and well it as definitely worth it :) i have given
this film a 10/10 and deservedly so. it is inspiring and brilliant

******
8 January 2007
10
The 'The Shawshank Redemption' is one of the best film ever
made!!!Personally i think it is the number one not far away from other
great films.What i love on this film is that it shows how people can
reach freedom and happiness even when they are desperate. It shows that
there is always a hope and anybody can reach his dream if he believes
in himself...When i first watched the movie i was very surprised with
the happy ending.I almost cried. I also liked the Morgan Freeman's
description that makes the story more attractive. Other things i like
on the film is that it 'talks' about life's simple and important values
such as friendship , partnership , fellow feelings and simple moments
of life enjoy.

******
6 January 2007
10
This movie was nothing short of amazing. I had watched it a couple
years after it came out but I rented it recently and I have watched it
over and over. The acting is amazing, the suspense is great and the
events in the movie are gut wrenching, tear jerking and sometimes even
stomach turning. This movie shows you what some prisons can be like in
some places at different points in time. The cast is great, with Tim
Robbins as Andy Dufresne, an innocent man who is sentenced to 2 back to
back 20 year life sentences for "murdering his wife", Morgan Freeman as
Ellis Boyd 'Red'Redding, an old man who has done years for a murder he
committed when he was a teenager, Andy and Red become good friends in
prison, there is also Clancy Brown who plays Captain Byron T. Hadley, a
vicious prison guard with no remorse or conscience, and Bob Gunton
plays Warden Samuel Norton, a crooked prison warden. I highly recommend
this movie to anyone fit to watch a movie so disturbing in scenes. So
go out and buy this movie, you don't even have to rent it to see if you
like it, trust me, you will. I'd buy it but it isn't exactly an easy
one to find here.10/10--Amazing..Highly Recommended

******
4 January 2007
10
Love it!!! What more can I say?! I love the storyline, the ending - not
what I expected. Strong and intense performances from Morgan Freeman
and Tim Robbins. Shawshank is a classic. Captivating and so moving with
so little in the way of action. Morgan Freeman putting in brilliantly
scripted, brilliantly acted narrative. A film with many emotions which
pulls you in from start to finish. Genius Film making of the highest
standard with some standout performances. A impressive, engrossing
piece of film-making. Very good performances. Simple story but well
told. An altogether truly brilliant film. A very watchable, well shot
movie.

******
3 January 2007
10
Just watched this film for the second time so that I could answer the
technical questions I had the first time about why certain characters
did something and why. Pay attention. It is fascinating.Aside from that, I easily give this film a #1 ranking on my personal
list of favorites. I noticed that "The Godfather" is #1 on this web
site. I strongly disagree because that film simply glorifies organized
crime violence, while "Shawshank" is very, very moving, philosophical,
challenging, and has MANY messages to get across to the viewer. This
second time round, here are the messages which I gained from this film
(from most obvious to highest level order):1) State prison is horrible. 2) If you can't do the time, then don't do
the crime (or even be associated by circumstantial evidence to the
crime). 3) If you ever find yourself in prison, better to make friends
than to make enemies - your life my depend on it. 4) Sometimes violence
is absolutely unnecessary and wrong. 5) Every human being needs friends
and acceptance. 6) What comes around, goes around. 7) Police officers
and prison guards who themselves become convicted criminals have little
chance of survival in prison - suicide for them is the more attractive
option. 8) Hope can help anyone rise above any bad situation. 9) Every
life is precious and irreplaceable. 10) Society can treat you like a
piece of sh@t, can tell you that you are a piece of sh@t, and can even
drag you through half a mile of sh@t, but you are NEVER a piece of sh@t
until you THINK that you are a piece of sh@t.

******
3 January 2007
10
It is very hard to think of something bad about this film.The direction
is incredible, bringing about highly memorable performances, and a
beautifully shot film. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are sensational, carrying this film on
their shoulders as if it were the easiest job in the world - a tribute
to them as this film must have been an incredibly demanding shoot - it
is a long and emotional film. The development of their friendship is wonderful to watch, as is Andy's
gradual assimilation into the prison society - however sad it may well
be.Frank Darabont it seems was the ideal man to take the helm of this
movie. Many films in this sort of genre can feel like they are missing
something, as if there were sections left on the editing room floor -
not this film, everything fits perfectly in to place. This leads to a
very long film, (which could perhaps be its only criticism - be warned
it is long - though the longer the better for me) but one which sucks
you right into the prison world, and keeps you right there until the
utterly stunning last shot of the film!Viewers should be warned that some scenes are of a disturbing nature,
dealing with issues that may offend some people. However, this should
not put you off seeing this film. It deals with the realities of
prison, and in no way glorifies the goings on. What we must realise however, is that this film is not necessarily
about the brutality of prison and the way prison society operates, it
is about human connection and interaction, and the indomitable nature
of the human spirit. By the last scene we should feel uplifted at what
has been achieved - not only by the characters in the story however,
but by the film makers!This film is deservedly number 3 on the top 250 list! Congratulations
to all involved in making it! A must see for anyone! Sensational 10/10

******
27 December 2006
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the most well written, played and
directed movies of all time. Incredibly humane and realistic, it will
keep the viewers interest at top throughout the whole movie without
making him tired, will travel him in the same journey with the actors
and leave him after the end with a sweet taste in his heart and his
mind. "Fear can set you prisoner, Hope can set you free" claims the
movie and you will really believe it. This is only one of the many
massages the movie is sending. The story is so real that is
breathtaking. The acting is excellent from all the actors, even in
secondary roles. It is a movie that I enjoy to watch at any time,
touching me each time. It is really a classic masterpiece!

******
17 December 2006
10
this film is possibly one of the greatest all time, anyone who watches
and thinks it is bad, they need shooting, love this film and can watch
it loads of times and not get bored. upsetting at some points but still
amazing. Morgan Freeman's character Red loved, him, he saw things on a
different side, and a more realistic side, whereas, Andy saw things as
a more fantasising which he always believed could come true. There are
points in the film which many would say, i have seen this before or we
all know wot is going to happen, but in this film, you never know wot
to expect, there are many points which are very unexpected. To end
this, my word on it is amazing, i loved the film, and if this is not
considered one of the best films of all time then i don't know what
could be.

******
12 December 2006
9
The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt one of the most brilliant
movies I have ever seen. Similar to The Green Mile in many respects
(and better than it in almost all of them), these two movies have shown
us that Stephen King is a master not only of horror but also of prose
that shakes the soul and moves the heart. The plot is amazing, but King
did great things with it in his novella that are only furthered by the
direction, and the acting is so top-rate it's almost scary.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrane, wrongly imprisoned for 20 years for the
murder of his wife. The story focuses on Andy's relationship with "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman, in probably his best role) and his attempts to
escape from Shawshank. Bob Gunton is positively evil and frightening as
Warden Norton, and there are great performances and cameos all around;
the most prominent one being Gil Bellows (late as Billy of Ally McBeal)
as Tommy, a fellow inmate of Andy's who suffers under the iron will of
Norton.If you haven't seen this movie, GO AND RENT IT NOW. You will not be
disappointed. It is positively the best movie of the '90's, and one of
my favorite of all time. This movie is a spectacle to move the mind,
soul, and heart. 10/10

******
10 December 2006
10
I happened to watch this movie by accident. Me and my friends were on
our way to watch some other film (I don't remember which) but found no
tickets and decided to watch this one instead. I remember sitting down
inside the cinema with no enthusiasm and a sense of boredom. The title
and story of the film did not appeal to me in the least.I could put in some fancy words and striking adjectives to describe my
feelings when the last scene of the film was completed. But the truth
is, you have to see the film for yourself to feel and participate of
the emotions it projects. All I will say is I felt a better man leaving
the cinema. As the tagline of the film says: "hope can set you free"!
The times we live in are frustrating and our chance to make something
happen limited. But when you watch a story like this (it doesn't matter
if it's fiction, it might very well be true), you just feel compelled
to try harder, to never give up! Most of us may not achieve what we
most want, but it is worth trying nevertheless! About the film itself,
there is no fault I can find with it. If I didn't recognize Robbins and
Freeman as actors, I would have been convinced that they have done time
and are just playing themselves. A great thanks to them as to all crew
that participated in the movie! It is understandable that some people
have found this movie slow and boring, but I guarantee that at some
point in their lives, when they will be more able to identify
themselves with the characters, they will discover its meaning.It is a great work, cinematography at its best! I can but repeat what
has already been said here: Take the time to watch this movie. It is
worth it!

******
8 December 2006
10
I must have seen this movie over twenty times, and every time i watch
it feels like the first time i'm watching it. words escape me in
describing how good this movie is, and i dare say that "The Godfather"
became second on my list because of it. Simply Amazing, simply
invigorating, simply a masterpiece. If the 20th century's best piece of
art was to be searched for, then search no more. This is the definitive
piece of art that movie makers should look up to. The minimum length
for a comment is 10 lines, but what more can i put down to describe
such a movie. i own four copies of this movie 2 regular edition DVDs
and 2 Special Editions. do i need to say more. Do yourself a favor and
acquire a copy, you'll be glad you did.

******
2 December 2006
9
One of my fa vs and i am only in my teens. here's my top five 1. 12
angry men 2. THe Shawshank Redemption 3. Rocky 1 4. Godfather pt. 1 5.
Pulp FictionI was very impressed with these movies especially The shaw shank
Redemption.Morgan freeman was really good in this movie, usually i don't like Tim
Robins in any of his movies but he was really good in this one too.IMPRESSIVE!!! Also the movie Cool Hand Luke is pretty impressive.i have to take up lines so \ i \ can post this message\\ sorry SORRY
ABOUT THE A'S I AM NEW TO THIS AND I Don't KNOW HOW TO POST WITHOUT
HAVING AT LEAST 10 LINES ADADFAFDAF AFDA FAF AF AF A FA F AF AF A DF AF
AF AF A F AF A AF AF FA FA FA A F FA FAD D D D AA S D F A S D F A S D F F A S F A DF ADF A DSFADSF A DSF ADS F

******
23 November 2006
10
Rarely do movies come along that change a persons perspective on life,
but for The Shawshank Redemption this statement is granted. From start
to finish a beautiful adaptation of what movies are supposed to be
like, displaying humanities most important elements, hope, joy,
retribution and redemption, they all come into play and thats what
makes it a cut above the rest. Society changes views on certain aspects
of life but somehow hope always stays at the forefront, for change, for
a better life. To change ones situation and to free the soul of a
prison of emotion. Shawshank doesn't have special effects or big
blockbuster openings and endings, but it does have one thing that is
more deep and special, it has a message that appeals to the good in
everyone, that no ones situation is indefinite and that where there's
hope, there's life.

******
18 November 2006
10
I've seen some of the most famous movies of all time Ben-Hur, Lawrence
of Arabia, On the Waterfront, Gone with the Wind, etc; But this is my
all time favorite movie, Morgan Freeman is unbelievable as Red, same
goes for Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne, This is a Movie about a man
named Andy Dufresne who is imprisoned for not 1... but 2 life sentences
for the murder of his wife and her lover, while in prison he meets a
fellow inmate by the name of Ellis Boyd Redding mostly known as Red.
And they go through so much together, the ending makes me so happy
inside that Andy and Red are able to meet on the outside and live the
rest of the lives on the outside.

******
16 November 2006
8
This is not the best film of all time, and not even Tim Robbins's best
performance of all time. That would go to "Arington Road." Tim's third
best performance of all time? Anything else, as these are his only two
good film.Morgan Freeman (ex-Easy Reader, The Electric Company) has turned in
countless performances better than this one (Glory is an obvious one),
and the rest of the cast of 'Shawshank' doesn't even stand out. I
didn't even know Bill Sadler (who is in a lot of films) was in this
film and couldn't even find the character he played.Let's get the plot out of the way: Andy Dufresne (Robbins) is
imprisoned for a murder he says he didn't commit. Redding (Freeman) is
the wise old lifer who mentors and befriends Andy. The warden, for whom
Andy works, is corrupt. The action results from this circumstance, but
the focus is on the human and social dynamics of prison. The supporting
cast was far too stereotypical, and the plot twists all very
predictable. Nevertheless, the film was well-acted, well-shot, and fun
to watch. It did not, however, move the earth.To rank this film above From Here To Eternity, put it on a par with
Casablanca and Gone With The Wind, and to have it leaving other
classics like Ben Hur, On The Waterfront, and even Rocky in the dust is
a bit much.Shawshank's other main flaw is that it is a bit too political in its
portrayal of corrupt conservatives in power.

******
11 November 2006
10
This is one of the most moving, beautiful movies I've ever seen. You
can feel the desperation and the hope. I encourage everyone to see it.
The language can be a little graphic, but is probably appropriate for a
movie such as this. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are surrounded by
outstanding character actors who only enhance their performances. They
add something to every scene. My favorite scene is that of "Andy" and
"Red" discussing Mexico and the character of Andy sums up the whole
movie with the line, "Get busy living or get busy dying". I've always
loved this movie and watch it on TV whenever it's showing. I finally
bought the 10 years anniversary DVD addition.

******
7 November 2006
10
What can one say about the Shawshank Redemption that hasn't already
been said. I remember when it came out but refused to see it because of
the title although I am a big fan of both stars. Besides, I had gotten
so burned by critics saying that this movie is a four star or that one
only to go and see them and find that the movies mentioned were
ordinary or most certainly not the four stars the critics gave them.
Even Roger Ebert is guilty of this. So, because of bad information I
usually wait for the DVD to come out and that's too bad because I'm
denying a good movie some money it could use in it's theatrical
release. But so many movies coming out just isn't worth my money. I saw
the Shawshank Redemption in rental and turned around and bought a copy.
I like prison movies anyway from the TV movie Against the Wall, the
story about Attica to the Chicano epic Bound by Honor to the great OZ
my all time favorite prison story. The Shawshank Redemption transcends
most prison movies because it has heart and is told in such a leisurely
fashion that you can absorb it and enjoy the art and superb dialog and
the brilliant acting without feeling hurried. Many posters have already
commented on this wonderful movie and although I wouldn't say it's the
greatest film ever made I do enjoy it and am glad that it's in my
library.

******
6 November 2006
10
I've watched more than 5 or 6 times I guess and whenever it appears on
any TV channel. The characters, everything about them, height, weight,
age and even the race or education was set properly and perfect. I'd
always get the imagination that I'm watching some footage taken on real
time and during the daily life of the people live in a prison. They
were so real and the theme was not a fictitious one and may anytime
happen to any of us anywhere and we shall fing ourselves in a situation
like in this film. The part about himself, the sentence he said about
being a crook was wonderful and explained all what about thw film is.
This is all what I can say about the film.

******
29 October 2006
8
Shawshank Redemption is truly an inspirational film--a work of art.
What makes this film so special (asside from the excellent acting from
both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins) is the message of hope, even in
your darkest hours. Robbins plays a man sent to jail for a crime he did not commit--the
murder of his wife and her lover. He is found guilty, and sent to
Shawshank Penitentiary. He meets Freeman, who has spent most of his
life in Shawshank for a crime he committed when he was a young, dumb
kid. Freeman feels that Robbins wouldn't last past his first night in
prison. But after being repeatedly sodomized by "the sisters" and
manipulated by the warden, Robbins remains resilient and hopeful. He
gains Freeman's respect as well as his friendship. The men go through three decades of unhappiness as the pinup on
Robbin's wall changes from Rita Hayworth to Marilyn Monroe to Racquel
Welsch. Each one hiding a secret that grows bigger, with time.
Something that Robbins doesn't even confide in his best friend Freeman.After one final betrayal from the warden, we find out what those
posters were hiding...The gateway to Robbins' freedom. I'll spoil no
more for you...but recommend you watch this film yourself. It's quite
inspiring and uplifting.9/10

******
26 October 2006
10
Beautiful. Simply Beautiful. The essence of this movie captures u from
the beginning to the end. I found myself emotionally attached to the
characters in this movie. I don't believe anyone could ever surpass the
true, "essence" of The Shawshank Redemption. The game that Morgan
Freeman brings to the table can't be surpassed with his calm-demeanor
narration and always stunning acting and capturing of the true
character of "Red" in the movie. The friendship that Red and Andy make
also will capture your heart. The mysterious Andy DuFresne is played
beautifully by Tim Robbins. Other characters such as Warden Norton,
Brooks Hatlen, Haywood, Byron Hadley, Tommy, and all the others, are
also beautifully played by their actors. The story is clearly presented
in old-fashioned way that will capture you, like i said, from the
BEGINNING.

******
17 October 2006
10
The Best film ever made. A true masterpiece and an epic that will never
be beaten. The acting is of the highest standard with some excellent
and true quotes, such as "It comes down a simple choice, really. Either
get busy living, or get busy dying," and the story line is fantastic
with the most amazing end to the film, that leaves you in astonishment.
Morgan freeman plays his role to the highest standard and it is
definitely his best film in his career. I am a huge film lover, but I
have to say i have never seen a film that touched me quite as much as
the Shawshank did! If you haven't seen this film, I promise you now,
you are missing the best film of all time.

******
15 October 2006
10
This has got to be my favourite movie of all time. i watched it a few
years ago for the first time on a rental copy and HAD to buy it! I've
watched it many times since! the cast and crew are superb! I don't
think i could imagine anyone else playing any part in this, they all
did they're job brilliantly! Film is about a guy who gets wrongly
accused of killing his wife in a revenge style attack and gets sent to
prison for life. Through-out the time he spent there, he came across
enemies, friends and people he could use as an advantage for his plans.
In the end, the people that thought they knew Andy realised that they
did'not know what he was capable of after all.I recommend this film to anyone.10/10

******
14 October 2006
10
Before I saw this movie, it was hard for me to imagine why so many
people liked it. I figured it must be one of those gritty movies that
people like because of its harsh realism, but in truth it is so much
more than that. In fact, I don't find it very gritty at all. I can now
understand why it is the second highest movie on IMDb's Top 250 and why
so many of my friends list it as their favorite movie. It is the most
emotionally powerful movie I've ever seen and I doubt anything I see
will top it.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a man convicted of killing his wife
and her lover. Morgan Freeman plays the convicted killer Ellis Redding
that befriends Andy in prison. These are two very touching and true
performances. Tim Robbins should have at least been nominated for an
Oscar for the quiet intensity he brought to his role. He takes on the
right sense of mystery required for the role and he gives the movie the
conviction it needs to reach its emotional heights. Marlon Brando
claimed that some roles are actor-proof- the story is so good that no
actor can mess it up. This could possibly be one of those roles, but I
can't help feeling that a lesser actor would have overacted and
destroyed Robbins's character. Morgan Freeman was nominated, and justly
so (though it is an injustice that he was chosen above Robbins; they
both are equals in this movie). He complements Robbins beautifully as a
stoic man that understands prison life better than anyone else. He also
narrates the movie; we see things through his eyes and experience
things through his words. As in Million Dollar Baby, his voice provides
the movie with its thematic focus. The supporting cast is fine, but
James Whitmore stands out as the prison librarian.The actors do not make this a great movie though. They were given a
great story and they lived it for us perfectly, but it is the story
that lives on after the movie is over. Stephen King may be a pop
fiction author, but he has an extraordinary grasp on human nature which
is brought to light in Shawshank.Marlon Brando also said that movies are good because of what we bring
to them, and I suppose there's some truth in that, though there are
some movies that are good no matter what- Casablanca and Citizen Kane,
for example. I don't know which category this movie belongs to and I'm
afraid that because I love it so much I don't trust myself to say. I
can say, however, that everyone can identify with the triumph of the
human spirit, and maybe that explains why it is such a beloved movie.It really is a shame that The Shawshank Redemption came out in 1994,
the same year as Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction. All three are great
movies, and all three deserved Best Picture. But to me, Shawshank is
the best of them all and will continue to resonate with me for a long
time to come.

******
8 October 2006
10
Back in 1994, 'The Shawshank Redemption' opened to lukewarm reviews and
mild economic success, securing less than $30 million at the domestic
box office. Though nominated for a very respectable seven Academy
Awards, it failed to win any of these, up against the likes of 'Forrest
Gump' and 'Pulp Fiction.' Since then, the film has steadily grown in
popularity and now stands as one of the most highly-regarded films of
the 1990's.Convicted for the brutal murder of his wife and her lover, a crime of
which he claims to be innocent, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins, 'Mystic
River,' 2003) is ordered to serve two back-to-back life sentences at
Shawshank Prison. Life is hard. The prison guards are brutal and
unforgiving, many prisoners are ruthlessly antagonistic towards Andy,
and the warden is greedy and corrupt. Nevertheless, Andy forms lifelong
friendships with many of his fellow prisoners, most particularly Red
(Morgan Freeman, 'Se7en,' 1995), the "man who can get things." Clinging
stubbornly to the knowledge of his own innocence, Andy never loses his
hope that justice will inevitably prevail. Despite being a story filled with suffering and adversity, 'The
Shawshank Redemption' remains one of the most uplifting and
inspirational films of all time.

******
7 October 2006
10
When I read the back of the DVD in the store I thought to myself
several times. Why bother this is just another prison movie. But
eventually I had no excuses left not to buy this DVD I heard great
reviews about it. Yet I still settled myself down for another movie.
After watching the movie for 30 minutes I was already starting to
wonder why on earth I hadn't bought the DVD of this movie sooner. And
the first thing I did when the movie ended. was playing it again. The
fact of the matter is that "The Shawshank Redemption" is one of the few
movies of the last decade or so that you can actually watch over and
over again without getting that feeling of "I already know how it's
gonna end".This movie is a must see for everyone and deserves nothing less than a
10 out of 10...

******
19 August 2006
10
first off, excellent movie. great characters. second, when Andy breaks
the sewer pipe during the escape, crap shoots out. That is possible
only if the pipe was plugged up and under pressure. Even then the pipe
would still be full of crap up to the hole after that loss of pressure.
yet the pipe was fully empty when Andy looked in. Also, the only pipe
that can drain directly into the river is a rain/storm drain pipe. Crap
will come from only the sewer pipe which means that Andy would had have
ended up in a septic tank which is what most likely be used in such a
rural area. third, how the hell did Andy fit into warden's
clothes/shoes???? how did Andy cut out the bible pages so perfectly to
fit the rock hammer? how come nobody got visitors? Who is Allen Greene
in whose memory this movie of?

******
18 August 2006
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" takes a look at life behind bars from a
whole, new perspective. Rather than your basic break for freedom plot,
this film focuses on the cost of adapting to prison life and how some
convicts, once they conform, lose the ability to survive beyond the
iron bars and barbed wire. The story takes place between the years of
1947 through to 1966 and follows the struggle of one-time successful
and promising banker Andy Dufresne. Dufresne was convicted of the
murder of his wife and lover when he is sent to Shawshank State Prison
and sentenced to life behind bars. It is in Shawshank where he forms a
friendship with Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding, the "Sears and Roebuck" of
Shawshank and uses his "hope" to get through life behind bars. It is he
("Red") who narrates the film which, rather than interfere upon the
story, sustains and facilitates the film to make for an incredibly
powerful and moving account of life inside prison. Director, Frank
Darabont directs a magnitude of remarkable performances. Most notably
from Tim Robbins who gives an exceptional performance as Andy Dufresne
and Morgan Freeman who's performance as 'Red' makes for a fascinating
and intriguing film. Fine supporting performances also come from Bob
Gunton (Warden Samuel Norton), William Sadler (Heywood), and Clancy
Brown (Captain Byron T. Hadley) but remarkably, one of the first-class
performances comes from James Whitmore as Brooks Hatlen. The scenes
with him attempting to cope with life outside of Shawshank make for one
of the film's most moving, effective and powerful sequences. "The
Shawshank Redepmtion" is a truly remarkable film and is utterly unique
not just in the prison drama genre but in the history of film its self.My Rating : An Outstanding 10/10

******
16 August 2006
10
I liked this movie when I first time watched it but it was never my
"the best" movie. Then I happened to watch it again and ever since it
is by far the most enjoyable movie i have seen.Andy(Tim Robbins) is a true social spirit. It was after Andy's(Tim
Robbins) hundreds of letters that was sent to the authorities
requesting funds for the prison's library that they at lastcsent the
fund with the words "Please stop sending us letters". He teaches a
fellow inmate to get degree. It was the same student who told Andy
about a man he knew who has killed Andy's wife (for this crime Andy was
in the Shawshank Prison). The Warden could not let Andy go as he was
his key to financial success. From that moment Andy was committed to
take revenge. And he did it.Every second of this movie is spectacular. It is the best movie I have
ever seen and heard of! Enjoy every word of it!

******
15 August 2006
10
There are not many movies that can touch me emotionally. Few movies
have done this and those movies are: The green mile, The gladiator,
Crash and Shawshank redemption.This movie makes you feel like you have known the persons in the movie
all your life. It lets you understand them and love them. It shows you
what true friendship is and that how dark things look there is always a
light at the end and that things don't always go like you want it them
and that you should do your best making the best of all situations.
Like i have said one of the best movies i have ever seen, not a doubt
in my mind giving it 10 stars. Gordon Freemans voice is a pleasure
hearing and makes you really listen to the story.For you people that haven't seen the movie yet its about a young man
that is a banker. Hes wife cheats on him and he gets convicted of
murdering her and her lover. This young man gets to the prison
"Shawshank" and has a rough time. Paying his sentence he starts to make
friends and some of them are powerful. This gets him in trouble but he
is always one step ahead of his powerful friends that become enemies
that get him in trouble making life impossible for him. At last he
makes it and everything goes as planed.Sorry if my short version of the movie is a bit diffuse but this movie
is too good to spoil even a little bit.I know you will like it as much as i did.

******
8 August 2006
9
I watched "The Shawshank Redemption" last night with my husband, partly
to see what the fuss was all about. I found it a well made moving film,
but a little too sentimental. Red's character was complex. He was very
noble (well, he is played by Morgan Freeman) but he was in prison for
being a murderer, and the speech he made to the parole board at the end
of the film showed his dilemmas and the darker side of his personality.
Andy was complex too as the other prisoners saw. I thought the
characters were too clichéd in the way that the warden and the guards
were bad, the prisoners were good, except for a group of prisoners (the
Sisters) who were bad. Aside from Andy and Red, the characters fit
clearly on one side of the good/bad divide. I would have liked to see
more sides of their personalities. The film delivers some surprises by
the end: it was wonderful not to have any inkling of Andy's escape, his
plans for revenge, or his gift to Red, providing Red with his freedom.
The script develops the story skillfully and makes the audience care
deeply about the prisoners, not just Andy and Red. I would have liked
to know what happened to the prisoners after the corrupt warden and the
bullying guards were arrested. "The Shawshank Redemption" tells a
powerful story well, but it would have an even more powerful punch if
it allowed more time to discover the prisoners' inner natures: the
darker tone of the "fishing" scenes at the start really isn't returned
to. I loved Banks' pet crow and the nod to "Birdman of Alcatraz". That
film was a strong portrait of both the Birdman and the experience of
being in a prison. Ultimately, I didn't feel that "The Shawshank
Redemption" gives a picture of what it's like to be a prisoner locked
away in a corrupt institution for decades. For one thing, I can't see
an entire population of a prison reacting to Mozart on the loudspeaker
with awe: surely there must have been more prisoners who prefer Hank
Williams.

******
7 August 2006
10
at the first time I saw the movie, I had a high expectation on this
movie, due to its position in IMDb.com..then, I watched this movie, expecting what is called one of the best
movies ever, and when the credits came up...I was speechless...indeed, this movie looks simple, and sentimental... nevertheless, I
have to admit its perfection..in terms of pacing, music, acting, movie
length, twist, and ending...I've been comparing this movie to other movies around, still I find
this better than those...even the classic ones...I'm still looking for another contender for the best movie ever, but
yet, this movie still tops all of them...11 out of 10

******
7 August 2006
10
Quite simply the best film it has been my pleasure to have watched.
When it first came out at the cinema in the mid nineties, it wasn't
tremendously successful, however as a regular cinema goer at the time,
I was lucky enough to see this magnificent film. As soon as I left the
cinema, I promptly recommended this film to everyone I knew. As soon as
the video and then the DVD was released, it was purchased immediately
and watched and re-watched several times. Even though I know the entire
storyline and all the twists etc, I still watch the film whenever it
comes on TV. I still watch the DVD at least a couple of times a year,
some would call it sad, however it totally deserves the title of 'My
Favourite Film'

******
7 August 2006
9
A very, very good film. Yet it only gets a nine. The ending of Andy
sanding the boat is too cheesy. Red setting off into the distance on
the bus was enough. Definitely one to watch multiple times though. Now
go down to your nearest retailer and buy a copy now !!! Now go down to
your nearest retailer and buy a copy now !!! Now go down to your
nearest retailer and buy a copy now !!! Trust me, you'll be glad you
did. I am so glad film four is free now in the UK. Another film i'm
looking forward to is Trainspotting. A most excellent film. The best
film to have come out of the UK in years. Running out of stuff to say.
Just had to voice my depression at the ending... so there ya go .

******
24 July 2006
10
Stephen King rocks! Not only can he terrify us with his stories of the
macabre, BUT he can also dazzle us and bring us to tears with his
dramas, such as the Green Mile, Stand by Me (The Body), Hearts in
Atlantis, Dolores Claiborne and YES...THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION! This
movie is my favorite because the ending (last 25 minutes) just keeps
getting better and better and by the last few minutes you think it's
going to end and you want more to happen to make it the best happy
ending possible and it IS. It keeps going until all characters get
their comeuppances, good or bad! This is a movie about HOPE. As King
entitled this part of the novel Different Seasons "Hope Springs
Eternal"! A++++++++++

******
24 July 2006
10
Shawshank Redemption is one of the most insightful and thought
provoking movies I have seen. With the character "Red's" narration, it
comes across a little like a documentary because of the details of
prison life presented. But we are being told a story in such a way as
to keep us interested enough to hear the outcome.I view the character, Andy (at least later in the movie) as an
undetected mouse in a board meeting or fly on the wall who observes
more than the average person. Red describes him as wearing some kind of
cloak that shields him from the effects of the prison. This is revealed
as hope later on. Andy somehow refuses to allow his hope to be crushed
or snuffed out.He accomplishes so much during his incarceration, much of it due to his
undaunted perseverance and redirected energy. It is brilliant and
insanely brave when he asks the guard if he trusts his wife. Pushed to
the brink of destruction, he barely gets the words out to the effect
that the guard can keep all of the inheritance if he gifts it to his
wife.The story reminds me of the Biblical Joseph in an Egyptian prison, a
documented instance of undeserved confinement.The spoiler that I have for those already initiated is: Andy places his
own copy of the Bible in the warden's safe the evening of his planned
escape. The warden is mocked when he reads his own quote to Andy inside
the cover and the hollow for the pick-ax is revealed. I wonder if
Andy's routine included locking up the warden's Bible, or was this a
one time sting for the warden's sake?

******
21 July 2006
10
I loved the plot in this movie. Throughout this movie i felt like i was
Andy. I wasn't watching Andy, i was Andy. And Morgan freeman was my
best friend. This only says that the acting was superb. This movie is
always on TV and though i don't think i have watched the whole thing
one time through, i have seen all of it in different parts at least 30
times, and each time i long that i haven't seen the movie from start to
finish. So i recommend all to buy it, as its something i need to go out
and do myself. Mordan Freeman is one of the greatest actors of all time
and after seeing this movie, you will believe so. This movie is
defiantly in my top 5 list. The only movies i would say have better
acting is the first to god fathers.

******
21 July 2006
10
I have seen this movie around 10-15 times, and every time I see it i
discover something new and interesting. The story has one of the best
story lines and the connection between the actors Morgan Freemam(Ellis
Boyd Redding)and Tim Robbin(Andy Dufresne) is wonderful. The Shawshank
Redemption shows what does go on in prison and sort of makes you think
hows some normal people can become wise and crafty convicts. This movie
somewhat reminds me of another great movie "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's
Nest" in that the character can go from completely normal to somewhat
nuts. And the cruel institutes in which people are put in, make excuses
for their wrong doings, and treat people like they are dirt. I truly
enjoyed this movie, and for whoever is reading this i'm sure if you see
this movie, you will enjoyed just as much as i have.

******
17 July 2006
10
FINALLY! A site that got it right. The ranking on this couldn't be more
accurate. A wonderful movie that never once feels slow, pointless,
overdone, or simply, bad. It does everything right, and is a crime that
this had to go up against Forrest Gump in the same year, and a shame it
was so overlooked.What we have here is a masterpiece of film, something that just makes
you feel better leaving the theater than you did going in. It builds up
to a man's ultimate triumph over wrong, and the best BEST ending of a
film ever.Perfect, as has been stated by 99.9% of people here. Because it is.If you haven't had the pleasure of seeing this (for shame!), to quote
will Ferrel: "Go immediately to where ever movies are made-, sold or
rented, and watch it. It is delightful"

******
17 July 2006
9
If you are open-minded, patient (possibly emotional or even
compassionate) you will be happy by the time you finish this movie. If
you like films like 'Schindler's List' or 'One Flew Over The Cuckoos
Nest', then you will love this films progression and style.It has some of the very best acting you will see, the plot is superb
(wont go into it here) and all sub-plots play out well with the overall
movie tying up rather nicely. You'll most definitely be rooting for our
guys:- Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) & Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan
Freeman), two of the finest performances you'll see. Due respect also
goes to the support, Bob Gunton, William Sadler & Clancy Brown with a
great early role from Gil Bellows (Ally McBeal).Outstanding directing, impeccable timing and excellent photography and
the music was very chilling and uplifting, whichever was required. One
small let down IMHO was the running time of 2h 22m which becomes
noticeable during its final moments but the film itself is generally
tight, the cast & crew did a great job here.9/10

******
16 July 2006
9
In all honesty, this was one of the biggest surprises I'd seen in the
movies in a long time. This is also one of the few movies that I can
safely say that the majority of well minded individuals will find
entertaining. But now, into the actual content of the film. For
starters, the opening sequence with the imperial walkers is not only
one of my favorite cinema memories; it's also a staple point in the
advancement of sci-fi films. Though the love story may have seemed a
bit trite to some, I found it tasteful and appropriate. Once again, I
was blown away with the final light saber sequence and though I won't
spoil it, let's just say that a very important character drops one
spicy meatball.

******
14 July 2006
9
One of the best movies I have ever seen, well acted, directed,
everything was perfect. . the movie is about a escape from jail. but it
was totally different from other movies like "the great escape" "escape
from Alcartaz" . the shaw shank redemption is a different movie in a
sense that, its not only about a escape. its classic, emotionally
inspiring,its about a hope("Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set
you free". .then The twist that makes you worth watching it all along
and leaves you with tremendous wonder. It's a good thing though, even
for those of you who is too dumb to watch character driven drama and
prefer mindless action movies. Tim Robbins and Morgen freeman were
great. fine performances without the use of a lot of violence or
graphic violence to get attention.

******
12 July 2006
10
Since "The Shawshank Redemption" was released in 1994, it has been
played on various cable channels (TNT, TBS, etc) approximately 130,842
times. You know what: it keeps getting better and better. If the cable
networks developed a Shawshank channel, it would consistently receive
higher cable ratings than any other channel (even if they played the
pan and scan version, instead of the widescreen). The movie is that
good.Every element of the film is near perfect. I have watched the movie in
its entirety at least 10 times and I get something new from it each
time. Watch this movie. I repeat. WATCH THIS MOVIE.

******
5 July 2006
10
I wrote my first review of this movie back in 2006. I feel I did not do
it the justice it deserved.I grew up in Mansfield, OH, not very far at all from the Ohio State
Reformatory. The old "castle Dracula" Administration building is all
that is left now. A new prison (Mansfield Correctional Institution) was
built on the site where the other buildings existed along OH-13. I
remember the impending demolition just waiting for this movie to finish
filming......Thank God it waited! The story begins in 1946 when Portland banker
Andy Dufresne is tried for and wrongfully convicted of the double
murder of his wife and her "lover".Andy arrives at Shawshank state prison in early 1947 and is greeted
harshly by ruthless authority and by thugs who seem to enjoy beating
him up. Andy keeps strong and keeps very much to himself for the first
two years.Andy finally decides he needs a hobby to keep his mind occupied. He
approaches the well known prison entrepenour, "Red", and asks if Red
might smuggle something into the prison for him... This kick starts the
relationship between Red and Andy that the movie centers its attention
on.There is a gentle tug of war between the two regarding ideals. Red,
guilty of murder and sentenced to life with parole, sees no hope in
existence outside of the prison walls. He tries, throughout the film,
to convey to Andy that "hope can drive a man insane" and its best to
just accept your fate. Opposites must attract because Andy was Red's
polar opposite and it began to catch Red's attention. Andy would
confront the police guard to ask for beers for his friends. He'd play
music over the Shawshank PA system from the Warden's office. He'd write
the state once or twice a week for years and years to get funds for a
new library. Andy Dufresne dared to dream and he turned the negativity
of Shawshank on its head...and just may have changed Red's view on
things.The villain in the movie is Warden Norton. The Warden notices Andy's
skills and intelligence early on and took full advantage. He entices
Andy to be sort of an "administrative assistant". He started out in
doing tax returns for the guards, which he was very good at. In time,
the Warden enticed him to use his banking skills to mastermind a money
laundering scheme that would make the Warden "a millionaire when he
retires". Andy had to "go to prison to be a crook". This kept his mind
occupied.About 2/3 the way through the film, a young kid is admitted to
Shawshank who knows who killed Andy's wife 19 years before. Andy is
ecstatic and he takes the news to the Warden. At risk of the money
laundering scandel being brought to light, the Warden ensures Andy he's
not leaving Shawshank. Andy gets two months in the hole. The young kid
gets shot.Andy, the beacon of hope for this movie, decides HE WILL get out. And
HE WILL get his freedom.We go back to Andy's first meeting with Red 19 years before the
escape...the little chess piece chiseling 6" rock hammer that he asked
for... He'd been chipping away at the concrete wall in his room for 19
years and NOBODY SAW IT COMING.Andy busts out of that stinkin place, crawls through a 500 yard
sanitary line and "comes out clean on the other side". Andy is gone and
is free like a bird.Red, with his inspirational friend gone, does begin to lose that hope
that Andy almost convinced him of. Life at the prison begins to suck.
Red, after 40 years, gets paroled. He has no idea how to adapt on the
outside. He might just commit suicide.Only one thing stops him...a promise he made to Andy... Determined, Red
puts on his hat and suit, clamps his travel case shut. Give busy livin,
or get busy dyin...thats god damn right. He bolts town and meets up
with Andy on the beach in Mexico. Red, once a young crook, now redeemed
old man.

******
24 June 2006
10
For those of you who rated this movie a 1/10: Shame on You! There is no
way, even if you don't personally love the movie, that you can deny
it's one of the best movies ever made. Just like there are some people
who may not have personally loved the Godfather, Citizen Kane,
Shindler's List, etc. and, therefore, gave those movies a 1/10. That's
a bunch of crap. I personally didn't love the Godfather, but thats
because it's not exactly my type of movie. That doesn't mean I bashed
it and gave it a 1/10. I could see right away all the great qualities
the movie had. So for those of you who voted 1/10 for shaw-shank, ask
yourselves if it was really that bad, or was it just that you
personally didn't enjoy it as much as everybody else...My guess is you
would respond truthfully to the latter, so at least give it a 7, 8, or
9, not a 1. Thats all I have to say about that.Now about the movie...The writing, the acting, the the music, the
theme, etc. It's all as close to perfect as you will find in a movie. I
don't want to write any spoilers, so let me just say that each and
every scene of this movie is well crafted. It's the type of movie that
keeps you on your toes from beginning to end. This is one of the only
movies that I can remember that was so good, I forgot I was watching a
movie. You can connect with the characters on such a personal level.
Everything they do feels real. Nothing is under or overblown. TIm
Robbins was the perfect cast for Andy Dufrane. Robbins' melodramatic
personality lends itself perfectly to his character (Andy). As a
viewer, you can never really tell what Andy is doing or thinking.
Unlike most heroes, Andy doesn't make his objective clear to the
audience. Morgan Freeman is the perfect actor for the character Red.
Listening to him narrate the story is a real treat. I don't want to say
anymore for those of you who haven't watched the movie yet. If you are
one of those people, I wouldn't skip out on this movie. You will be
doing yourself a disservice by missing this film. One of the best.

******
24 June 2006
10
If you can't watch a movie which doesn't contain any explosions, wild
car chases or corrupt cops, then this movie probably isn't for you.
However, if you enjoy a good story with great acting and execution,
then you really should look into "The Shawshank Redemption".So why is the movie so good? The movie as a whole is simply
breath-taking. In addition to the exceptional story, everything is
"just right". I've seen loads of movies with good stories, but most of
them seem to fail in other aspects (poor acting, poor camera-work and
such) making the movie as a whole not live up to its potential. "The
Shawshank Redemption" is NOT one of them. It actually manages to pull
it off, resulting in what I deem to be one of the best movies ever
made. I give it a 10/10, without any hesitation.

******
24 June 2006
10
I thought i've watched some really great movies in my life. The ironic
thing is, every time i watch a movie that is great, i'll miss much of
it because the TV is busy advertising some rubbish prime time movie
like charlies angels.Shawshank redemption is not a good movie, it's a GREAT movie.
Thankfully, i got the DVD and finally watched it from start to finish.
I've never watched a show that made me feel like watching over and over
and over again like it has. The way the director captures human
emotion, makes this one hell of a great prison movie.The movie is great at the start, but none better when it comes closer
to the end. Believe me, there will be a point your jaw will just hang
open in amazement. I love this movie, if you've not watched it, please
do so...

******
22 June 2006
10
Some individuals get bored with the beginning of the movie because of
the slow pace, but one has to remember this isn't about action its
about drama and a well told story, and the ending makes me smile every
time. The well chosen dialog in the start shows the viewer this is not
about your normal prison movie or any sorta of manner that could be
included in that genre, but instead has well thought out banter. The
cinematography is nothing new to any of us but thats not so important
as the story and the way the angles show what need to be shown.
Simplely put its a beautiful story, well written by King and is shot
and made very worth peoples while. My mother watched it for the very
first time a few weeks ago, before always complaining that it was
boring and she could never get into it, now she sings it praise.

******
22 June 2006
10
"Fear can hold you prisoner, hope can set you free." What a great tag
line. It makes you think of how good your life is when you get to be
free.It is hard for me to put my feelings into words because "The Shawshank
Redemption" is one of that kind of movies that makes you think. The
movie has been very educating for me."The Shawshank Redemption" is not an ordinary prison-movie. It is an
epic story about friendship. I almost start to weep when I think of Red
(outstanding Morgan Freeman) and Andy's (excellent Tim Robbins) strong
relationship! In the film Tim Robbins' character, banker Andy Dufresne
is being accused to have murdered his wife and his lover while they
were having an intimate moment. The jury finds the defendant guilty as
charged and Andy is sent to the infamous Shawshank prison which was
known for its cruel punishments for misbehaving. While being a new meet
in prison Andy is being harassed by the Sisters, inmates who want to
taste some of that fresh meet. Everything happens on Red's point of
view. Red is the guy who can get almost anything you want by smuggling
stuff in. He is a provider who will someday give Andy the key; Rita
Hayworth.The film is full of injustice but even if you are locked up you can
find your soul-mates. Also after being imprisoned for a long time it
will grow on you. It becomes your home. But not for Andy. He knows he's
innocent. Maybe the Shawshank isn't so hard to crack..."The Shawshank Redemption" is based on a short story by no other than
king of horror Stephen King. I have found his prison-movies to be very
very good because, well, the pictures about his stories have always
been little downbeat. Maybe because of the supernatural side, I guess.
I have this short story on my bookshelf and it's almost as same as the
movie. The only thing's that different in the short story is that Red
was a ginger-haired, white Irishman. Freeman's Red is also Irish but we
all know the difference. It doesn't make any difference, really.The lesson of this movie is to never give up hope. Life can sure kick
you but kick back. Be smarter than life."I hope I can get across the border. I hope to see my friend, and shake
his hand. I hope that the Pasific is as blue as it has been in my
dreams. I hope." -Red

******
21 June 2006
10
I doubt anyone can argue, that this Movie is the greatest one ever
made. If there is no better movie ever made I will not be disappointed.
More about that later though, one of the movie's strongest aspects, the
acting.Before watching this movie I had never heard of Tim Robbins, and after
was left wondering why, the way he developed the character of Andrew
Dufresne was incredible, why he hasn't been in many, many more big
productions.But the real star in this Movie was Morgan Freeman,maybe it was because
he's Irish, his role as Red the 'The man who knows how to get things'
was incredible. A convicted murderer, and the only guilty man in
shawshank really was what made the movie, amongst other things, so
good. He would have to be the best narrator EVER!! he makes you feel as
though when he speaks, you're him watching the events unfold as they
happen from his perspective.The other co-stars all put in great performances, notabley Bob Gunton
as the Warden, William Sadler as Heywood a fellow inmate and James
Whitmore as Brooks. Clancy Brown did a great job of making you hate his
character Captain Hadley, at some parts you just wanted reach through
the screen and kill him yourself. And Mark Rolsten as Boggs the gay
prisoner, made you shudder.But the highlight of the acting was on the on screen chemistry between
Tim Robbins and Morgn Freeman the best male lead duo that I have ever
seen, the way they inspire each other and the conversations they share
add another dimension to the movie.The plot is good, with the ending coming as a complete surprise to me,
probably because i was expecting something a little different to what I
had expected, which is what makes this movie brilliant. Frank Darabout
has done a great job as Director as he has shown us again later in the
Green Mile. I cant believe this film did not perform in the Cinemas or
did not win any awards. Words cannot possibley describe in detail just
how good this movie is, go and see it for yourself, but be prepared for
some real, prison violence. And remember, a good thing never dies.

******
12 June 2006
9
It's a shame that The Shawshank Redemption was never as critically or
commercially successful during it's run in theatres, as perhaps it
should have been. If it were, then maybe the travesty of having Forrest
Gump take the 1994 Best Picture Oscar could have been avoided, the
award collected, instead, by either by this film or by Tarantino's
groundbreaking Pulp Fiction, which were both stronger efforts. But I
digress.Beginning in 1946, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted for the
murders of his wife and her lover. He's sentenced to serve two life
terms back to back in Shawshank Prison, ruled with an iron fist by the
Warden Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton) and the foul-mouthed, violent Captain
Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown). Shawshank, Andy soon discovers, is a place
of corruption and injustice, which begins at the Guards and stretches
to the Warden himself, and includes a group of sodomites known as "the
Sisters". Amidst this, Andy finds himself part of an unlikely group of
friends, Red (Morgan Freeman), the "man who knows how to get things"
and Brooks (James Whitmore), the good-natured, aging old-timer and
librarian, among them. As we watch these men through the next 20 years
of prison life, a tragic subplot develops with the Brooks character
which deals with the nature of spending too long behind bars, and how,
eventually, the bars and walls of prison can influence even a man of
Brooks' good nature.When a young convict arrives at Shawshank with proof that Andy is
innocent, injustice at the prison rears it's ugly head. Andy is faced
with a choice to make  "get busy livin', or get busy dying"  and he
does just that, propelling the film from that point forward into a
rousing, uplifting climax which tests the bonds of friendship between
himself and Red, and ultimately provides the audience with an important
message about hope, salvation, and redemption.Writer/director Darabont reclines in his role and lets Shawshank's
modestly-paced, subdued screenplay flow through it's 142 minutes. The
film achieves the rare state of never seeming to drag or feel rushed.
There's no flashy action here; rather, Darabont allows his audience to
be compelled by the dialogue and the array of terrific performances,
from the assured conviction with which Robbins believes in his
innocence, to the thoughtful grace of Freeman's Red.

******
12 June 2006
9
This is one of my all time favorite movies. It's about a man who is
sent to prison for killing his wife, only he claims he didn't do it. He
then makes friends with the inmates.It is a long movie, but watching it, you wouldn't know. It feels like
it was a few minutes long. As a plus, it doesn't even feel like a
movie. The characters are so well played, you think someone was filming
them for some reality show or something (cthe camera angles are
amazing, no reality show-like parts like on Law and Order). This is a
great movie, though not for all. It is a prison movie and has the
cliché moments like the guards being cruel and things like that
(everyone claiming to be innocent saying "The lawyer F***ed me!") It
has actually convinced millions all over the place not to commit
suicide or to stop cutting themselves and even leaving violent
husbands/wives. This is a movie Everyone should TRY and watch.Recommendations: The Green MileRoad to Perditon

******
12 June 2006
10
This movie is by far the best movie i've seen in my life, i'm only 18
mind, but still, excellent, i would recommend that anyone who hasn't
seen it watch it. The actors really play convincing parts, even the
minor roles are played out well. I really can't say a bad thing about
this movie. I wouldn't want to spoil the movie for someone who hasn't
seen it. All i can say is watch it!! this movie should not in anyway be
turned down because "it is just a prison movie" this movie is much more
than this...It is really cheep as well, if you want to buy it in HMV i bought it
from there for £1.99 which i thought was an absolute bargain!! go buy
it for yourself now if you haven't got it!!

******
9 June 2006
10
One of my favorite all time movies!I've watched it at least 12 times and enjoy it as much each time I see
it. One of the best adaptations and truest to the original Stephen King
stories that I have seen. The other being "The Green Mile". The combination of musical score with the well written and delivered
lines of Morgan Freemans narration still can well the tears up in my
eyes. His narration and acting in this film surely should have garnered
him an Academy Award! He's an American Icon in my book. Superbly
written, superbly directly, superbly filmed, and superbly acted. You'll never be disappointed to have this DVD in your collection.

******
7 June 2006
10
I have seen this movie at least a dozen times and I will probably watch
it a dozen more. It is a feel good movie with excellent acting. I am a
huge Tim Robbins fan and Morgan Freeman does a superb job as "the man
who can get things". The majority of the supporting cast were just as
good. The storyline is honest and fun. I believe most people will enjoy
what this film has to offer. If you think you might be turned off
because this is a prison movie please reconsider. I doubt that once
you've seen the movie you will consider it a cliché prison flick. Most
movies today are entirely too predictable. This movie is guaranteed to
surprise and excite as the plot and ending unfold.

******
7 June 2006
10
If this movie isn't a masterpiece, then nothing is. The story and the
actors feel very real and they just charm you from the very beginning.
You can feel all the emotions that appear in the movie, when something
is unfair you just want to break an expensive object and when something
good happens you sit there, smiling like a little sun. Tim Robbins is
excellent for the part of Andy Dufresne and Morgan Freeman couldn't
have been a better choice for the speaker and the role itself.Even though the movie is full of surprises it allows you to figure out
a few things yourself every now and then. But in the long run it
consists of many unbelievable twists and turns and there's just not one
boring second. I'm not surprised about the rating either, this movie
just deserves to be as high up on all lists as a movie possibly can be.
If you haven't seen it, you know what I want you to do next.

******
29 May 2006
10
Many of the most powerful stories are the soulful ones that teach us
not to despair, not to be swamped by sorrow. They remind us that hope
is a precious and buoyant emotion which can give our lives substance
and meaning.The Shawshank Redemption is based on a novella by Stephen King. Tim
Robbins plays Andy, a banker who is sent to prison for the murder of
his wife and her lover. The judge who sentences him finds him "a
particularly remorseless and icy man." Andy's cool reserve and
aloofness is not accepted well by the other inmates at Shawshank
maximum-security prison in Maine. He is raped by some angry men and
given several long stretches in solitary confinement for his bad
attitude.Luckily, Andy is befriended by Red, played by Morgan Freeman, the
prison fixer. He is awed by this young man's quiet reserve and inward
resolve to make the best of his bad situation. Andy's accounting skills
come in handy, and he begins doing the taxes for the guards and
laundering money for the corrupt warden. This lands him the cushy job
of librarian. Eventually, Andy wrangles money out of state officials to
build the best prison library anywhere.Writer and director Frank Darabont draws out strong and intense
performances from Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins as soulmates who
support each other while doing hard time. Red sees hope as a dangerous
thing that can drive a man insane, but Andy believes it is fuel that
keeps one going against all odds. The Shawshank Redemption is a
jubilant tribute to hope as an essential quality of soul.

******
24 May 2006
10
The Shawshank Redemption (based on the short story "Rita Hayworth & the
Shawshank Redemption" by Stephen King) is quite possibly one of the
greatest movies ever to grace the big screen.Set in the mid-1900's, "The Shawshank Redemption" is tale of Andy
Dufrasne (played by Tim Robbins), a man recently convicted of a double
homicide and sentenced to life in Shawshank Prison. Once there, he
meets "Red" (Morgan Freeman), a fellow inmate at the facility who is
serving his own sentence, and who tells Dufrasne's story as narrator
through his own eyes. The two eventually form a close friendship as
they serve out their terms, and yet deal with their circumstances in
different ways.As the story goes on, the audience is treated to a culture and
lifestyle that few have ever experienced, or probably even thought
about. The movie goes into detail the dark side of the prison world,
including corrupt guards, violence between the inmates, and even worse
issues, but also shows some of the bright spots which seem to make the
dreary existence of the prisoners tolerable.The acting in this film is fantastic. Both Robbins and Freeman do
magnificent jobs in their respected roles, and the inclusion of Freeman
narration of the story adds a touch of credibility, as though this tale
may actually be true. The movie engages the audience from beginning to
end with the perfect blend of humor, sorrow, and even suspense. One
moment a viewer will find themselves chuckling at a joke between the
inmates, and the next cringing at the unsettling events unfolding
before their eyes.Overall, a magnificent cinematic masterpiece, and a must see for any
serious movie buff.

******
21 May 2006
10
Shawshank is among the very finest of movies I've ever seen, because it
touches me personally as no other film has ever done. Andy Dufresne's
anguish over his circumstance is so close to my own, it's as though he
were telling MY story, not reading from a fictitious script. Especially
moving is the scene, sitting with Red, he tells how, no, he didn't kill
his wife, etc., etc., and the remainder of the ensuing conversation,
and his decision to "Get busy living, or get busy dying" is as close to
my heart and soul as any screen dialog I've ever heard. No, I didn't
kill my ex-wife,(she's still alive and well), but my personal anguish
over the circumstances and travails I've endured through the years, are
truly mine, to the nth degree. If I were to write a script of my own
life, the script of Shawshank would be mine! As for inconsistencies in
the story, however, the one glaring defect so obvious is that no
facility in the world keeps the same man in the same cell for 20+ years
without change, or even the normal shakedown inspections. How Andy
managed to cut a hole through the wall behind the poster without being
discovered is absolutely ridiculous, it just doesn't happen! Morgan
Freeman's sonorous voice narration simply adds to the warmth and beauty
of the storyline, so heartfelt and true-to-character, it brings tears
to the eyes. Yes, Shawshank is among the best ever, Thank You, one and
all!

******
20 May 2006
10
The only movie I've ever rated a '10', Reference Standard.Regardless of my own interpretation of this art, I say "Greatest
Masterpiece Ever Filmed." with confidence based on the numbers and
insightful comments posted by other viewers. Indeed, it is only a
matter of time before this movie surpasses 'The Godfather' as being
rated as the 'Top All-Time' movie on the top movie website.With that said, there is nothing I can add to the hundreds of comments
posted before me. Everything about this piece from the rich story and
character development to the symphonic climax should be studied by
anyone interested in film. You simply must view this movie--and view it
with a critical eye--as a reference standard of quality story telling.

******
20 May 2006
10
This was, put simply, the longest film I've ever seen. I've spent many
an hour watching movies. Some of them were good. Some of them were bad.
Some of them reached me so deep inside that I spent days afterward
thinking about them. But the experience, watching the film itself,
always lasted between one to four hours.With "The Shawshank Redemption," the experience lasted twenty years.I wasn't bored. At first, I was skeptical about this film. Some movies
which ranked high in the IMDb weren't worthy; for example, "Batman
Begins." My skepticism was so strong that it prevented me from entering
the film with awe. But after a while, I found myself completely
immersed in Red's narrative.It is useless to try and explain the experience of watching this film.
But I can say one thing more.This film was the first film that brought tears of joy to my eyes. I
ended up smiling and then chuckling. And then I felt a streak of water
run down my cheek. And I realized I just experienced the ultimate
movie: the life story of people I wouldn't have known other wise, and
as real and as good as it gets.

******
14 May 2006
9
I had nothing to do the other night so I thought - hey, I feel like
watching a good (and boy did I mean GOOD) movie. So I browsed the IMDb
to see what I could find. 'The Shawshank Redemption' was one of only
two movies which had more than 9/10 on average. I decided to watch this
2 hour long piece of work.The audience is brought in to the movie at once, something which I
really appreciate in movies. In 'The Shawshank Redemption' you will
follow Andy who was convicted for the murderer of his wife and her
lover. It appears that Andy is innocent so in jail (named Shawshank) a
struggle to become free again is started.'The Shawshank Redemption' is deep, funny and very smart. It brings up
many messages about hope, friendship and fear. I strongly recommend you
devote 2 hours of your life for this movie.9 out 10.

******
5 May 2006
10
An emotional story of how nothing can break the human spirit. A truly
deeply effective story about the relationship between a new prisoner
and a cynical lifer. Morgan Freeman's performance is one of the best in
cinema history. And Tim Robbin's portrayal of a wrongly convicted man
is played to a tee. This is one of the most perfect casts ever to be
set in a movie. Every actor in the movie plays their part perfectly.
This movie is undeniably powerful of how prison can take your life,
your freedom but there is one one thing they can't get to, that they
can't touch, hope. If you only see one movie for the rest of your life
make it this one. You will not be disappointed.

******
2 May 2006
10
Possibly the best role Tim Robbins ever took on, that of quiet and
mild-mannered Andy Dufresne, a convict wrongly imprisoned for the
murder of his wife and her lover.In this situation, he meets "Red," played wonderfully by Morgan
Freeman, as well as all his friends including Heywood, Floyd, and
Brooks, played by James Whitmore. Through the narration of Red we see
the changes in Andy as he builds a huge library, helps young Tommy earn
his High School Diploma, gets the cons some beer from one of the
"meanest screws to ever walk a turn at Shawshank," played again by
Clancy Brown, one of the greatest living actors in film today. Through
it all Andy also endures torture of a different sort from Warden
Norton, a role of villainy played brilliantly as Robbins character by
Bob Gunton. We see Andy as he goes from doing the tax returns to
actually laundering the Warden's money. One of the most endearing
lines: "Outside, I was an honest man, straight as an arrow. I had to
come to prison to learn to be a crook." This movie is as good as the
Green Mile, if not better. And that's hard to do. From it we see hope
in the eyes of the hopeless as Andy's actions give that to them. I give
it a 10 out of 10, got out and get it today. I promise you'll love it.

******
25 April 2006
9
The Shawshank Redmption started out as an unknown movie, with little
box-office money, average reviews and outcasted by two other fantastic
films of the same year, " FOREST GUMP " and " PULP FICTION ". The movie
became a success when released on video and shown on television and is
now considered as one of the best movies ever.The story is about a man named Andy Dufrane, sent to Shawshank
Redemption for the murder of his wife and her lover. Although the story
seems very simple, its very gripping and engaging, and you want to
watch it to the end.In Shawshank Prison, we as the audience find lovable and characters we
can relate and sympaphise with. Even though they are convicts,
murderers, etc...The acting is the strongest point in the film, as the characters played
magnificently and uplifting by people Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.Overall, The Shawshank Redmption will always be considered one of the
greatest movies ever made, and a personal favourite of mine

******
16 April 2006
10
If I watch a film and I am unable to look away for one second, to me
that means the film is simply brilliant. I could not turn away from the
screen when i was watching The Shawshank Redemption and it is a film
that you must see. It contains a powerful message and is a very strong
film. From start to finish you get right into it and is a tear jerking
film in some aspect. The acting is great and Morgan Freeman is as
perfect as ever. The reason why I love this film is because the message
is powerful and teaches you something important which not many films
do. The plot is that a man is wrongly accused of murder and is sent to
Shawshank Prison. His dream is then to break out and along the way
encounters some heartbreaking moments but fails to fall and continues
to fight on.

******
14 April 2006
9
There is a scene early in the movie when the viewer is introduced for
the first time to Shawshank prison. The camera takes us on an
extraordinary panorama, beginning at ground level and rising up until
we see the inmates crowding around like ants. It must have been shot
with a sky-crane or something because there is no break in continuity.
The view just goes on, up and around in a breathtaking cycle. The
effect is reminiscent of the 360 degree battlefield panorama of Rod
Stieger's Napoleon in 'Waterloo'. It is almost arrogant, except that
it's wonderful. From this point on, I knew I was about to watch
something very, very special.The film depicts the institutional brutality that sadly continues to be
the hallmark or imprisonment, and how one comes to terms with it, or
not. We quickly discover what happens to those who don't. Some
hysterical white-collar inmate cracks-up and is beaten to death on his
first night. It is a monstrous example of the ironically named
'correctional facility' at work.Morgan Freeman is another actor as remarkable for his voice as his
other abilities. He is perfectly chosen as narrator.For almost 2 hours we endure the gloomy, threatening claustrophobia
that makes up much of prison time, and what inmates do to gain some
little respect and make life endurable. In this regard it has a lot in
common with 'Midnight Express'. Except that here we are dealing with an
innocent man.Music scores are perfectly chosen. The sound effects equally well
matched. The viewer is taken upon a journey so complete and plausible -
assisted by strong acting and excellent script - that when the
extremely unlikely escape is discovered, we are left believing that
too.The idea that a thunderstorm should fortuitously arrive at the very
hour of need to mask the sounds of hammering, and that it would be
possible to find sufficient air in the enclosed sewer-pipe, both
stretch our credence a little.My favourite moment features the abscondment-on-parole of Red, who goes
in search of a certain Field with a certain tree. After so long steeped
in the dank, evil reek of prison one can almost smell the scents of
summer, the mown hay. All is silent except for the whir of insects and
distant birdsong as soft sunlight filters down through trees. The
contrast is perfect, the ambiance tangible. These are surely the things
to savour most when freed from permanent brutality.This, and the movie 'Fried Greeen Tomatoes' seem to perfectly
counterpoint each other. They are both of equal quality and address
parallels of endurance and relationships from male or female
perspectives. I love 'em both as much.I'm told that each bombed at the box-office. Not enough pyrotechnics
and CGI effects I guess.If you haven't seen either of them; get busy. But watch them on a
decent telly with a quality independent sound-system.

******
10 April 2006
8
'The Shawshank Redemption' is a prison film and a good film about
characters. The film is about a man who is put into prison for
murdering his wife, a crime that he did not commit. He ends up helping
the prison guards out, and some complicated issues arise. The film is
about characters, loyalty, revenge, and freedom. This film is one of
its kind; it is almost spiritual as it touches on many different
aspects of life. The story is thoroughly engaging as are the
characters, and the different situations that the characters are in
keep the viewer guessing and hungry for more. This film is a rare gem
that lives up to its expectations.

******
9 April 2006
10
I was made to watch this film in my English class for doing coursework.
I am sooo happy my teacher set me that work. A class of 30 teenagers
walked way from the lessons we watched it in so influenced by the film
heading to the shop to by their own copy. I am proud to say I was one
of them. Once I got to uni and found out some people hadn't watched it
I sat them down at night and forced them. Sadly watching it in a
kitchen shared by 16 people even at night isn't the quietest place to
watch this film. Half drunk student would walk in and all my friends
who hadn't seen it turned to them and before they had chance to speak
they were told to shut up so they could watch it in peace. I was happy
to see my friends having the same reaction I had to the film. It is
proof that a film doesn't need special affects to hook a bunch of young
people onto it. It needs something and what ever it is the Shawshank
Redemption has it by the bucket full. I am afraid to say I still have
friends who haven't watched it but I will continue to try and get them
to watch it and I hope you take up this fight, if you haven't watched
it, watch it, if you have, make more people watch it.

******
7 April 2006
10
So far and by far the greatest movie ever made. It has been greatly
overshadowed by its 1994 Oscar opponent "Forrest Gump" (Which was no
where near as a good a movie as "Shawshank") It took a decade after
"Shawshank" for Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins to receive Oscars and
Frank Darabont should have won Best Director (let alone been nominated
for it). It is a movie that overpowers, yet under-achieves "Forrest
Gump." It is only right to deem it the most innovative and inspiring
movie of all time. The phenomenal story is powered by outstanding
acting and epic direction, as well as a dramatic score. It is not only
a model for all dramas, but a masterpiece that never tires, will never
be outdone, and will never bring hope to those who watch it.

******
6 April 2006
9
This movie touched me, but I'm finding it hard to review.It is the story of a man who, after being convicted to life in prison
for the murder of his wife and her lover, still manages to find hope
and a reason to live. We see him first come to grips with the way his
life is, then we see him begin to see how he could change it for the
better.It is full of memorable characters who each have something to share
with us if we are willing to listen. It will make you angry when an
injustice is revealed, it will make you smile at a small bit of good
fortune and even the hardest hearted person would have a hard time not
shedding a tear during certain scenes.Redemtion is possible and may be right around the corner!

******
6 April 2006
9
WOW what a great way to spend two hours on your backside - This is one
of the greatest films ever made. I love all of it, Tim Robbins acting
fighting the skinheads, teaching the inmates, helping with the guards
finances, and digging the tunnel a wonderfully written part and a self
crafted bit genius from Morgan Freeman made this film sparkle! GREAT
FILM! please watch it... I think the prison warden looks like Graham
'turinp' Taylor the ex England Soccer Manager! funny - I love the shoes
joke at the end very good. It did remind me a little of other films
when Morgan Freeman leaves prison. But Tim on his boat at the very end
is a smile raiser!

******
4 April 2006
10
This movie does an excellent job of portraying all characters in this
movie and showing how each individual deals with the fact/probability
that they might never see life outside of prison walls, while also
showing how certain inmates manage to handle freedom once being let out
of prison. A truly inspirational movie showing the strength of hope and
willpower while not being too extremely over the top and using an
ending to make all viewers feel good about how everything resolves
itself and lets viewers have the entire story come full circle with a
true sense of irony at the very end. An awesome film that is well
directed with an excellent "mood" surrounding the entire movie. The
acting keeps right up with and for the most part exceeds the directing.

******
31 March 2006
10
Captivating, Uplififting and Important are three adjectives most
appropriate for this picture. Captivating as this film did literally
hold me captive under Morgan Freeman's spellbinding narration in
addition to his sublime acting from Freeman, Tim Robbins and the
supporting cast. Uplifting as this film truly made hope spring eternal
and has done for film-lovers across the globe. Finally this picture is
important as there are many people in this world who have given up
hope, are denigrated and dejected and may even feel that there life has
no purpose but this film has renewed life to many people. It tells the
story of Andy Dufresne(Robbins) who is convicted of murdering his wife
and sent to Shawshank Prison for life and forms an unlikely friendship
and bond with Red(Freeman) and his gang, who initially reject him,
that's all I'll prefer to tell you of the film to maximise it's impact.

******
30 March 2006
10
Perhaps the most perfect film ever made. Words simply cannot express
how much I love it. The dialogue is wonderful on the ear, the
soundtrack actually story enhancing, the cinematography expansive, the
direction sublime, and the actors - simply perfection. All of the
characters in this film were endlessly interesting, textured and rich.
I think everyone in this cast deserved an award. This film continues to
haunt me (in the very best way). I watch this film several times a
year, and never cease to be amazed by all of the performances. This
film should be placed in a time capsule as an example of excellence in
film for the end of the last century. Have I gushed enough for
everyone?

******
28 March 2006
10
This movie has made my top 5 list. I heard people talk about this movie
including my parents. All I ever heard was good reviews, but just
watched it for my first time just under a year ago.About a week ago I bought it and love watching it. I watched it twice
in a week and want to watch it again. The movie was put together really
great. It has a good plot and a lot of unexpected things happen. If you
like "The Green Mile", you will love this movie. If you like prison
movies you will love this movie. If you like action, drama, love, and
any other kind of movie you will love The Shawshank Redemption.The actors are great in the movie and it was well directed. There are
several moments in the movie that are very moving, even for the Macho
Men :-P If you want to watch a great movie watch the (in my opinion) #1
best movie of all time. The Shawshank Redemption.Oh and like a read on a post on the message board, it has the best
closing line ever.

******
28 March 2006
10
This movie should have won all the Oscars in 1994 (Forrest Gump won)
but we all believe The Shawshank Redemption deserved better. Tim
Robbins played the meticulous character like no one could have. The
story has a catch (the escape) but it's not about the escape. It's
about hope. Morgan Freeman is a tremendous supporting actor, although I
believe his role was no less important.The movie's first part is confusing until you get to the middle of the
movie. During the entire first half you sit wondering what's the point
of all this. Yet you are glued because you hope there is something. By
the time movie enters second part you feel 'man i should have been in
that prison' There is no villain in the movie, everyone's just a
character. It's no good boys winning over bad boys. But yet at the end
of the movie you feel triumphant. Many people don't know about this movie because of the nature of the
story. But then those who know, know too well. No wonder this movie is
top rated at IMDb, that is a good enough compliment to the director,
script and the actors. Oscar isn't the end of the world.

******
24 March 2006
10
i think this film is a superb film because it's really heart warming
and tearful. Also the film is good because it tells you what prisons
were like in 1947 the scene i like the most is the end because the way
he broke out of prison with the hammer and stone and when he escaped
through a tunnel of filth. it was good because he kept it secret by
covering the hole with the poster.When the warden walks in and looks at
the bible and the hammer shape is in the book at it says salvation will
set you free. The scene where brooks hung him self because he didn't
like the outside world. It was also sad when tommy got shot because he
knew who killed the bankers wife and lover.

******
27 February 2006
10
Excellent movie! I've seen it for several times but I can't stop
watching it. It's memorable! The actors play is magnificent! Hope is
what we need most! Redemption is just a word like every other word. In
a corrupt system, hope never dies. Andy is not only just a smart guy.
He takes advantage of the whole corrupt system. There were and there
will always exist innocent people in jail. How you can prove your
innocence is a matter of common sense which is not evenly distributed.
Hope is always needed as long as corruption never end. When hope dies,
everything else dies slowly. And in the end a question: what would one
like Andy do not in 1966, but in 2006. Could he still get into prison,
could he still escape, could he still take financial advantage over the
system? I hope he could!

******
18 February 2006
10
The Shawskank Redemption is a movie of immense talent, looking into the
deepest feelings of prison, and surviving it. It all starts when Andy
Dufresne, a successful banker and a geologist hopeful, (Tim Collins) is
wrongly accused of his wife's and her lover's murder, sent to prison,
and makes new relationships and learns to deal with prison, along the
way meeting someone in particular, Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding (Morgan
Freeman). Ends hopefully, not with that much of a cliffhanger but still
much room for good to happen, not too much for bad, and definitely one
of my all-time favorite movies. A good look at the troubles, realities,
and heartbreaks of prison. Good quotes on hope.

******
22 January 2006
10
I voted a 10 (excellent). WOOOOOOO!!!!!!! It was intense, sad,
dramatic, funny, and heartwarming all at the same time. I love history,
so this story brought what i knew to life. It led me to question many
things about life's trials and tribulations and the strength it takes
to overcome any struggle. Morgan Freeman is one of my favorite actors
and his narration of the film is truly special. His role of Red is one
that demonstrates true character adaptation to real life scenarios and
experiences. It is one that will be remembered for a lifetime. Tim
Robbins takes the reality of prison life and demonstrates a new side to
life in there, one that is different from many others. His heart and
soul change over the course of the film, and it it truly exciting to
see this adaptation. I LOVED it, and so should you.

******
18 January 2006
10
A simple, but fantastic story.This adaptation of Stephen King's novel is one of the few exceptions to
the rule that the book is always better than the film. The book, whilst
brilliant, does not really reveal the warmth between the two leads,
played by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.It is simply a wonderful story, with fantastic, understated
performances by the two leads in particular, but also by the whole
supporting cast.The Shawshank Redemption is beautifully filmed and directed, this is
the perfect movie all round. It is criminal that it did not win the
best film Oscar.

******
17 January 2006
9
A big part of this film's appeal is the interplay between Thomas
Newman's soundtrack and the simple yet profound dialog. The CD score
stands up as a great work on its own. It alternates between brooding
piano and powerful orchestration, with a few oldies added for context.Three scenes, named by corresponding tracks, are especially poignant.
The first is "Brooks Was Here," followed by "Zihuatanejo" and "So Was
Red" (that title carries over from the Brooks track). To me, the third
is among the most moving sequences in film history. You can't top
Morgan Freeman saying "Get busy livin'..." as the inspiring music plays
in the background.

******
15 January 2006
10
I was forced to give this movie a rating of 10. Because this movie is a
lesson on how life itself is, it deserves much more.The last comment poster asked who the reader's "Andy" was. I ask that
poster who his "Red" is :). A little cheeky, but an important question, because Andy always needs
Red to survive and make meaning of what is around them, of what is
their life. Andy is a viewer in some respects, picking up and learning
and teaching in a nonchalant manner.I also believe, perhaps, Andy and Red often exist in the one and same
person.

******
14 January 2006
10
I was a teenager when I rented that movie after a friend insisted in me
watching that "you're gonna love it, I guarantee that" he said to me.I have always seen Stephen King's job contemptuosly, I think his books
are cheap, so I took it home just because he insisted.Oh my God... it is a masterpiece. I won't say anything new, everybody
has already said everything about how amazing this movie is. I own it
on VHS in Spanish and English and I have it on DVD now. I think I
bought pretty much a dozen of copies to give to my friends.This movie absolutely changed a part of me in a very good way.BTW, it just so happens that Stephen King's books result in very good
movies... go figure!

******
12 January 2006
10
Shawshank Redemption along with Casablanca, Citizen Kane, Star Wars,
Goodfellas, and the Godfather are worth every amount you spend. Even
though this movie isn't at all like the Stephen King novel "Rita
Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption", this movie has done some amazing
changes with comparisons to the novel and ultimately, I thought the
film was better than the novel itself. I was blown away by the
storyline, especially when Morgan Freeman was narrating. However, it
was a disappointment that the film never won any of seven academy award
nominations. If you are looking for a film to watch: one that has an
amazing script you hardly see in today's films, one that has some great
actors, and one that shows a strong bonding of friendship... this is
the one to see! I give this film a 10 out of 10 because it was
worthwhile watching and was worth every penny I spent on the 10th
anniversary DVD.

******
11 January 2006
10
It's my personal favorite. A man discovers himself after he is
sentenced to life in prison, and can escape and move to Zihuatanejo,
his greatest dream. It's something that represents the human condition of looking for what
you want, but quiet few can achieve their goals as Andy Dufresne did
with patience and courage.The rhythm of the movie is slow and subtle, as a fairy tale but with
the harshness of reality.You can watch it over and over again and keep enjoying the ride...it's
a classic and classics prevail!

******
3 January 2006
10
No other movie has portrayed the resolve of the human spirit as well,
or as classy as The Shawshank Redemption. Emotional and brutal, this
movie shows us what hope can really do for a man. It has men connecting
in a strong straight way. What better place then a prison to forge the
friendships that will last a lifetime. Steven King, for a horror
writer, writes some of the human dramas out there. I can't believe this
is not the number one movie. The Godfather was good yes, but it falls
short of this film. If you haven't seen this movie, what the hell is
wrong with you? Go buy it you will not be sorry, and if you are, there
is something wrong with you.

******
1 January 2006
10
a perfect movie, no flaws. anyone who appreciates film will enjoy this
movie. Twists, excitement, and wisdom are all displayed in this movie
and it is the best movie i have ever seen. it is impossible to
seriously give this movie a 1. it deserves at least a 9. A movie like
this deserves to be number one of all time. freeman is outstanding
while Robbins has a breakout roll. no flaws in acting, no flaws in
story line. king has done it again! a marvel movie that will keep you
glued to your seat for the entire time. 2 hours of pure excitement. i
can not even begin to imagine a movie that is better then this,
INCREDIBLE!!

******
30 December 2005
10
This is one of the most under-rated (by the so-called experts) films of
all time.There are no weak links in the cast. Direction and filming are of
classical quality; and the performances of Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman are virtually flawless. The fact that neither of them received
either Best Actor, or Best Supporting actor is, to me, totally
incomprehensible. Having said that, I personally would have trouble in
assigning which award to which actor. When I see the dross that receive
Oscars, I find it totally unreal that Morgan Freeman has, to date
(December 2005), received only one supporting actor award - shame on
the Academy.The storyline/plot is fairly standard and competent. All along you get
the feeling that Andy (Tim Robbins), and Red (Morgan Freeman) will get
something out of the whole affair, but the final twist in the
entrapment of the prison governor is quite original.The Shawshank redemption was worthy of a minimum of three Oscars, and
the fact that it received none is one of the greatest ever shames
attributable to The Acadamy and its members.

******
30 December 2005
9
Like most people I saw this movie (a) on the advice of a friend (b) on
video. I knew very little about it, but was told "it's awesome".The movie is built around Andy (Robbins) a real innocent man, sent to
prison for the alleged murder of his wife and lover. He finds the going
tough in prison ie the food is bad, his cell awful, sodomy, but he soon
learns what it takes to survive. Just when you think "oh please don't'
turn into Tom Selleck's 'An Innocent Man'", you are thrilled to see the
movie take another direction. Some acts of kindness win some of the
inmates over and he soon finds a close ally in Red (Freeman). Andy goes
about making a difference in prison and instilling hope into the lives
of his friends. I won't go much further but it's fair to say I've never
met someone who has seen this and not been impacted. This movie is what
Hollywood should be about- and it was originally written by Stephen
King! Get the Special Edition DVD for some excellent bonus features,
most notably a parody that is extremely clever.

******
27 December 2005
10
Time flies when having fun is the least you can say about this movie.
One of the few movies that let's me forget all about time and reminds
me that you don't need CGI and a quazillion of dollars to make a great
movie!!! I got a similar feeling when watching "The Green Mile". It
probably has something to do with the balance of the movie (I'm no
expert but it has to be something like that). It has the perfect
balance between all kinds of feelings/emotions without trying to pull
you to one side of the "emotionscale". Don't think that this gives you
a dull movie!Just get it, sit back and enjoy!!!

******
25 December 2005
10
This is one of those movies that you have to watch when you find it on
TV even though you've watched it 10 times. Great acting. Great
storyline. GREAT MOVIE. This movie is almost perfect. I seen it a dozen
of times and it keeps getting better. Best movie ever. Why? Because the
satisfaction you get in the end! You know how he did it and you can
almost feel how he must have felt! This movie is pure glory. This movie
is the best description of the word hope. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman are both great actors and they have some kind of chemistry. And
the one thing this movie is so great is that you don't want it to end.
You know it is going to end but you want it to go on and on and on. But
unfortunately, every beginning has also an end. That is from another
movie which we all know and was by the way very disappointing

******
25 December 2005
10
Shawshank Redemption is the most perfect movie I've ever seen, right
from flawless acting and razor-sharp screenplay to an amazing
background score. A lot of thought has gone into every scene and every
scene flows smoothly into the next with no abrupt transitions. Though
Andy Dufresne is the central character of the movie, the characters of
Brookes and Red are also vital to the theme of the Shawshank
Redemption. Scenes of brutal violence in the prison have the intended
effect on the audience without being too gory.One of the few movies that have driven home the power of hope so
effectively, this is one movie that will lift your spirits in times of
gloom.

******
22 December 2005
10
Of all the movies I have ever seen in my lifetime, this ranks up there
with the few and the proud of the most awesome movies you'd gladly
watch over and over. It is truly a masterpiece. Pity it didn't beat
Forrest Gump as picture of the year in 1994 (a good movie in its own
merit) as Shawshank, to me, was much more of an enthralling film and
deserving of the title.One of the best choices in this film was to have Morgan Freeman (Red)
as the narrator. Morgan has a voice and a way of telling a story that
pulls you right into it. He does the same in the more recent film March
Of The Penguins, which is also another good film.Another good thing about Shawshank is that when you come to the
"stunning" ending they don't just drop you right there, they still
spend a good 15 - 20 minutes developing the end of the story. That's
something I so wish wish they would do with more films nowadays.If you haven't seen The Shawshank Redemption (based on the short story
by Stephen King called Rita Hayworth and The Shawshank Redemption),
what are you waiting for? ;)

******
21 December 2005
10
Aftet watching this movie once, it was in my Top 20, after watching it
twice it was in My Top 10, and after watching it multiple times, it's
going to take a hell of a good movie took knock it off my #1 movie of
all time.Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbin's in easily both of their greatest
performances of all time, make this one movie that will hands down go
as the best movie of all time without an Oscar. The first hour or so is
moving beyond a shadow of a doubt, but the last two will draw you to
tears and inspire you beyond words.Watch it, watch it and watch it again!!!

******
15 December 2005
10
It's hard to imagine that maybe the most uplifting film of all time is
set inside the walls of a prison but that is the case in The Shawshank
Redemption. The film is about friendship, loyalty, and patience which
may not seem like the most intriguing elements until you have seen them
brought together in this film. Opening with the incarceration of Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins) for two life terms for the brutal killing of his
wife and her lover the film seems to be heading into dark territory.
Instead what we get is an examination of the triumph of human spirit. Shawshank Prison is the meanest prison around, or so says
Ellis"Red"Redding(Morgan Freeman) in an early narration. This is where
Red and Andy first meet and where the development of one of the most
rewarding screen friendships begins. Tim Robbins who plays Andy gives
his best performance. He carries himself in a manner unimaginable
considering his predicament. His patience and strength are a marvel.
Morgan Freeman turns in the performance of his career as Red who
narrates the film as well as provide the realism that Andy has
suppressed back. Andy is a patient man who walks the yard of Shawshank
like he doesn't have a care in the world. The film's success lies in
the relationship between Andy and Red. Their friendship carries them
through the struggles of the prison term and us through the film. One
of the most memorable endings in film history comes from their life
long bond. I am being vague on details because I do not want to spoil
the film for anyone who has not seen it. As far as I am concerned it is
something that you should do immediately. The Shawshank Redemption does
so much well. But above all it is a story of hope. The ability to
persevere through any situation is the hallmark of this remarkable
film.

******
15 December 2005
10
The best films are those which you just watch not knowing anything
about it...not hearing any publicity...no mad movie premier parties
just a tape in the video player, watching it with my granddad. I had
just left school and film was a passion of mine. I loved watching and
making them. I always loved the way films immersed you in and didn't
let you go until the credits. This is the absolute prime example of
that. Great story, acting, characters and a twisting slam-dunk of an
ending. All my favourite films have that quality, seven, six sense and
the game. Its just a shame that over the past few years there hasn't
been any films which i can honestly add to that list. So come on
Hollywood give us proper gutrenching twists not big grizzly apes!!!!

******
14 December 2005
10
I'm just wondering or if we get told in some way if the letter that
Andy had sent to the newspaper from the bank had any information about
his innocents in the murders of his wife and her lover. This is because
Capatin Hadley was arrested outside the prison and the only way that I
could see this happen is if Andy had sent some information in that
letter to the paper.I'm also just wondering if Norton had any sort of information about
Andy's innocents. I haven't read the book "Rita Heyworth and the
Shawshank Redemption" which is roughly based on the movie. It would be
nice if I could get a reply from someone who has an answer too one of
these questions.

******
13 December 2005
10
I remember the first time I watched this movie. I was only 10 and i had
turned on the TV to watch and i saw this movie called the Shoshana
redemption and i thought what a interesting name. But the movie
wouldn't have been excellent without the awesome casting of Tim
Robbins(Andy), Morgan Freeman (Red), Bob Gunton (Warden Norton), James
Handy (Brooks) and Clancy Brown (Captain Byron Hadley). The movie
conveys lots of mixed messages but the most important to me is that
even though we can be in dark and scary places there can always be
light. Only fault that as the years went by, Morgan Freeman didn't look
his age. Other then that it was a good movie with a good message that
you keep watching over and over again.

******
3 December 2005
8
It is hard to believe Stephen King could create such a movie! I know he
does a lot of horror movies, but I never knew he was capable of such
drama.Shawshank Redemption is narrated by Morgan Freeman (as always) and is
about when Andy is sent to prison for life after being framed for his
wife's murder. He becomes an inspiration as he talks about hope
throughout the film. That's where the film's power lies. The speeches
about hope and freedom in a dark and cold prison are moving. Other
scenes have don't have inspirational dialouge. Instead, they rely on
actions, acting and music. All of these create some mood that is felt
by the viewer.I did have my expectations, and the film didn't live up to them, but
the film is undeniably good! I don't think it's the second best film of
all time, but still it makes my top 20 list. At first, I was
disappointed. But, I had to eventually give into the power of
"Shawshank Redemption." It's still hard to believe Stephen King did
this. 8.5/10

******
1 December 2005
9
I love this movie for many reasons. The acting doesn't get any better.
One gets easily pulled into the stories and characters with no
hesitation. When a story can effortlessly make you care about the
situations and troubles it presents, it deserves praise. This movie may
not have a revolutionary plot, but it it still everything a good movie
should be. One may think the ending is too "touchy feely" but i think
it adds to the overall appeal ,remember it's not called the "Shawshank
Damnation". See it and enjoy and remember, it's OK to to cry over happy
things too!Final Analysis: I will watch this movie many more times before I die

******
28 November 2005
10
Wow!..thats basically what I have to say. The beginning is amazing, all
the trauma is amazing...and what an ending...after I saw this movie I
was at piece and just wanted to open a nice cold beer. Definitely one
of the best, if not the best, movie I have ever seen. Before I saw this
movie I watched the Godfather, which I also found amazing and well
before that I had my mind set that Pulp Fiction was amongst the best
movies I have seen. Without a doubt it is an excellent movie, but this
movie just blew me away. If you haven't seen it, I really recommend
that you do. I wont let out anything about the movie, because id hate
to spoil such a movie for you guys. But one recommendation I give, is
watch and relax while it blows you away. Genius! Well thats all I have
to say, peace.

******
28 November 2005
10
An eternal movie.. The outstanding acting by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman in additions
to the well written scenario create something more than a film..
Something unique! While you attend the movie you enter slowly in the world of Shawshank
Prison. 'Hope' in this movie means not just a feeling but an escape
from misery . The desire to be free connected his intelligence and his
great knowledge of economics make Andy do things extraordinary that
others were afraid or couldn't do . Andy Dufresne was already a living
myth in the prison but that was not what he wanted, he was determined
to make his dreams come true!At the end of the movie with the unexpected escape of Andy, you can't
do anything less but to bow in front of this unique conception...

******
26 November 2005
9
Still ranked #2 on IMDb:s top 250-list, this is not one of those epic
masterpieces like resident #1 "The Godfather". Rather this is a small
and quite low-key film that brings up some of the biggest concepts in
life. And that it certainly speaks to people can be seen from the grade
if nothing else.I had watched this movie a few years ago, and i didn't really
understand then what all the fuss was about. I enjoyed it, surely, but
not in the way that other people seemed to. But having recently watched
it again i must say that the message finally drove home. For several
reasons this is an amazing film.First of all the concepts it touches. Justice, fairness, endurance,
hope and of course above all friendship. Seldom have i seen a movie so
filled with emotion and still it's not weighted down by it. The movie
is one of the few i have seen where all this emotion truly feels
justified. Not least because of the second reason why this is an
amazing movie: the actors. Tim Robbins is one of my personal favorites,
an amazing actor to say the least. He almost never fails to deliver and
here he is mesmerizing. Morgan Freeman is another stable and dependable
actor, but i don't think he has ever been as good as he is here. And
they are supported by a very well balanced and well chosen supporting
cast. Finally Frank Darabonts directing is done with the lightest touch
and an amazing attention to detail. He never lets things slide out of
hand as they often do when strong emotions are present.While i find this to be an amazing film the high average score here at
IMDb still surprises me somewhat. It's a great movie, but it's not the
kind of movie i expected so many people would consider great. But maybe
it's just because what we have here is a movie about the greatest thing
life has to offer; friendship. And an unlikely friendship at that,
simple to understand and simple to appreciate. This is a feel-good
movie in the best way imaginable - one where you must first pass
through fire before you reach redemption.9/10

******
18 November 2005
10
This movie is about hope. Sort of like "Here comes the sun" by the
Beatles. However, unlike George Harrison's sweet melody this film has a
dark grit that makes it palatable and relevant to the life of any
struggling person. Andy Dufresne is an innocent man convicted to life
in the awful Shawshank prison. He perseveres and, in the end, he is
saved though what is meant by saved you will have to see by watching
the movie. The Shawshank prison is a powerful metaphor for human
struggles and limitations. And, in the end, what can any of us do
besides persevering in good works? Andy Dufresne shows that this
perseverance has value and ultimately triumphs over despair.

******
9 November 2005
8
I saw this film, and from the moment i started watching. To the moment
i stopped i was dazzled and amazed by the extremely great performances
by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman and its storyline which is either sad
tense unnerving or very funny. The film contains many wonderful or
dangerous characters and holds a few violent scenes of brutal beatings
and harrowing views of prison life. The film lives up to its name and
well deserves the awards given to it and is a film and can be viewed
over and over again without any of the films dazzling magic wearing
off. One of my favourite movies of all time, although i think number 2
in the top 250 is a bit extreme, i still thing it well deserves a good
place at number 5 at least. For any movie lover this film should almost definitely satisfy you and
will show you that it is worth all the hype.

******
8 November 2005
10
pair two of the best actors of our time (Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman) with one of the best writers of ALL time (Steven King) and
what do you expect? one of the greatest pieces of film of all time...my
only complaint is the length of the film, but for what you get, it is
well worth it...one of the most moving, powerful films i've ever seen,
Tim Robbins gives the performance of his career, and Morgan freeman is
near his best from beginning to end, i never lost interest in
"shawshank redemption", and there was never a time i didn't care what
was happening to any character...although it is very constrained in
environment, it gives the viewer the sense of freedom and independence
among the inmates, despite their confinement by far one of the most
emotional and moving films i've ever seen, i've rarely felt so deep for
the characters in a movie

******
18 October 2005
10
I've seen this movie about 7 times now and every time i still get the
shivers that i had the first time watching it.This movie is absolute my
nr.1 movie by far and is not just a film but also leaves a vision on
life and to appreciate a good friendship in the deepest meaning. The
quotes given in the film are typical and makes you think of how you
should live your life. It made me think about stuff.the movie touched
me in such a way that i thought of certain attributes in life suddenly
more beautiful.If i ever need to be reminded or have a wake up call, i
play the shawshank redemption. I was later on surprised that it was
written by Stephen King, a guy that is most known for his work on
thrillers/horrors.

******
15 October 2005
10
This is by far the most underrated movie ever made. The movie itself is
just so well done that I don't ever get tired of seeing it. I found out
about it 2 years after it came out and since then it's made an
impression on me that affects me even to this day. The movie is
brilliance and it's done so well that it upsets me to know that it
didn't do as well as it should have in the box office. But it's a
similar thing that paralleled The Wizard of Oz and Gone with The Wind
in 1939 it did it again in 1994 with The Shawshank Redemption and
Forrest Gump. This movie though as whole is one of the best films put together that
shows morale code, fear and hope. It shows what can be taken from us,
from freedom or someone (Tommy getting killed) from any situation that
was put together but hope stays with us and cant be beaten or stolen
from us unless we let it and this movie shows us that in an honest way
that isn't exaggerated. To me I'll never get tired of seeing this movie
nor get tired of what it means. Hope.

******
3 July 2005
8
I'd be lying to you if I told you that when Andy brakes out of his cell
and crawls to freedom, I wasn't just as happy as the masses of people
that call this their all time favorite move. And to say that I wasn't
riveted when he is locked i the office and turns up the music while
being threatened by the guards would also be untrue. But at the same
time, this movie is most certainly not the second best film ever
because of one simple reason: It can't decide if it wants to be real
with occasional hints of hope or imaginative and dreamy. It drags you
along for two hours of hard depressing facts and victory only in the
most modest portions, then, for whatever reason, has a Hollywood ending
of him digging through the wall then picking up the bank account that
there's no way in hell that he'd be able to get in real life. This is
great entertainment and I give it a ton of credit for having the
ability to maintain my attention the whole time. But at the same time,
the ending proved a little disappointing because it betrayed everything
that this movie was trying to be.

******
18 November 2004
10
*Possible SpoilerI was fifteen years old at the time this film was released, and it
instantly became one of my favorite films after the first time I
watched it. Part of the film was shot 10 minutes from where I grew up
at the Wyandot County Court House in Upper Sandusky, Ohio. A classmate
of mine's father was a juror in the opening scenes of the film. The
rest of the film was shot about 45 minutes from my home in Mansfield,
Ohio at the historic Mansfield Reformatory. Every year, the famous
prison has haunted tours and sleepovers during the Halloween season,
and is open for historic tours during other parts of the year. There
are many websites devoted to this site. Being a fairly rural area of
the state, it is quite an honor to have lived near the filming of one
of the best films of all time. As I have grown into an adult, I have
grown to appreciate the artistic value of the film even more. Morgan
Freeman delivers his best performance (all of his are great though).
"Red" is the epitome of a man who just wants to be part of life.
Although confined inside walls, he can function normally by doing
things to make others happy, in turn making himself happy. He is much
like any working man that lives on the outside. Andy (Tim Robbins) just
amazes you with his selflessness. He sacrificed his own well-being for
others many times during his stay at the Shawshank. It took him a
longtime, but his desire to live eventually freed him. The film left me
surprised many times. But once you have got to know Andy, nothing he
does will surprise you. He's the guy you knew back in the day that had
all the luck. (We've all known guys or girls like that). This film is
10 out of 10. It has moments of suspense, mystery, action, surprise,
drama, sadness, and even a little comedy if you know where to look for
it.

******
17 November 2004
10
Every family has a film they watch together on a regular basis or for a
special occasion/ holiday. Hoosiers and The Shawshank Redemption are
the ones for my family. I'm sure I've seen this marvelous film at least
100 times since I was ten. This film reminds us that motion pictures
still have the power to make us laugh, cry or look at ourselves from a
new point of view. This is one of those rare films that makes you proud
to be alive. Andy's struggles and redemption show us that hope is a
beautiful thing and it never dies. My personal favorite scene in the
entire film is Andy's crawl through 300 yards of sewage to freedom. The
shot of his victory in which he stands in the rain with open arms
embracing freedom is one of the most powerful and beautiful shots ever
caught on film. I get tears of joy every time I see it. All in all,
this is a remarkable film that like hope, will live forever. rating:
10/10if you like this you may also like: Magnolia, American History X,
American Beauty, Rain Man, Garden State

******
16 November 2004
10
This movie is almost perfect. I seen it a dozen of times and it keeps
getting better. Best movie ever. Why? Because the satisfaction you get
in the end! You know how he did it and you can almost feel how he must
have felt! This movie is pure glory. This movie is the best description
of the word hope. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are both great actors
and they have some kind of chemistry. And the one thing this movie is
so great is that you don't want it to end. You know it is going to end
but you want it to go on and on and on. But unfortunately, every
beginning has also an end. That is from another movie which we all know
and was by the way very disappointing.

******
14 November 2004
10
Most people who see this movie for the first time are not going to
appreciate it completely. This is maybe the only movie, in my opinion,
that keeps getting better the more times I watch it. Having seen the
movie at least 20 times I feel that it is quite possibly the best movie
ever made. Some may be more entertaining, like say Indiana Jones and
the Last Crusade, but none as compelling. The movie creates a world of
different emotions, mainly through its two main characters, Red and
Andy. The acting is incredible. The message is stronger than that of
most any movie, and is stated very clearly. "Hope is a good thing,
maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies." After being
drained by the sad events that occur in the movie, the ending uplifts,
and thoroughly fulfills the gaps that it could leave you with. Although this is a great and uplifting movie I realize that are a few
things wrong with it, like in any movie. The issue of race is not
addressed because it wasn't originally meant to. In Stephen King's
short story, Red is white. In casting Morgan Freeman the movie is left
a little empty on that subject. This does not devalue it, but does
leave the audience a little confused about why it is not addressed. Do
not watch this movie and expect to be completely entertained, just
watch it for its quality, and maybe you'll be left with as much
thought-provoking material as I was. I am glad it is ranked as high as
it is, which shows that does get through to most people, but I think it
should move two spaces up on the list.

******
4 November 2004
10
Sci-Fi, Heroic fantasy are good stories and can make good films? But
how can we compare movies that make you enjoy cinema and a movie that
adds dimensions such as thinking a long time after the show, and that
makes you behave differently?Human relationships, hope, will, friendship are eternal themes... If
you want to watch a movie that will move you, watch this movie. If you
want to entertain, go and watch LOTR, Star Wars.Classify movies depending on your personnality, your moods, your own
tastes, is good. To my mind this film is really great and i'm not
surprised at all if it is nowadays ranked in 2nd place.

******
3 November 2004
10
The great words spoken by Andy to Red. Never give up. Shawshank is a
movie based on a book by Stephen King. When I tell people this it is
hard for them to believe. This is the best adaptation of a King story
that he has not written the screenplay for. Even though some of the
characters in the movie don't fit the descriptions from the story they
work.The movie shows the life of a prisoner convicted of a crime that he
says he did not commit and the great friendship he develops with Red
and the daily problems a prisoner faces. This is a great story and I
never get tired of watching it. I have seen it 30 times and it gets
better every time.Get busy living or get busy dying.

******
8 October 2004
10

I've heard many great things about this movie from my friends all
throughout the last 10 years. And for some reason I have never seen the
movie for myself until now. And now 10 years after it was originally
released, I can now see what all the praise is about. And in my
opinion, no movie in my mind even compares to this one. Not ever have I
felt this way before after watching a movie. When I finished watching
this film it took me a good while to realize where I was and realize
that what I was watching was not in fact a part of my life. This movie
let me escape reality for a little while, and made me forget about
everything that was going on in my life. When people are stressed and
want to get away, they spend thousands of dollars on a vacation. But if
you don't have money to spend, just watch this movie. Even though you
only escape from your everyday life for a couple hours, it will make
you feel like you were away for a long time. And will give you a better
sense of how important it is to keep hope, and to never give up, as
life is too beautiful to run away from. This movie really should be #1
on IMDb but #2 ain't bad. Definitely my favourite movie ever because it
is so much more than a movie. It's a means of just escaping the stress
in your life and in the end, makes you feel really really good about
life. Whenever I'm feeling down, I'll put on this movie, and realize
how beautiful the world we live in is.


******
7 October 2004
10

My criterion for movie rating was Schindler's List until I watched
Shawshank Redemption. It's simply beautiful - it's simply the best.The movie turns from a simple routine jail story to a jail break to
something that is more important in each of our life. It's a single
individual person's realization of his mistakes, patience for 20 years,
character's smartness that shines through out the movie.In this movie: Andy takes revenge from all who contributed to his
sufferings from individuals to system. Andy helps every one of his
mates without judging them. Andy fights for everyone with sharpness and
smartness. Andy gives hope to his best mate and invites him to be part
of his future dream. He tells him what to do when come out of jail.
Andy proves himself to be the knower of everything but then pretending
he is just an average banker. However, his plans are so amazingly
organize that he is always on top of situation. One of the reasons is
his involvement in multiple projects. Exploring all options to get out
of the jail from helping mates to breaking jail. But then from the very
beginning he knows that he may be left with the last option only.Amazingly beautiful conclusion. Amazingly beautiful plot. Amazingly
beautiful cost.Well-done Guys. My mind wants to see a movie that is better than Shawshank Redemption,
but my hearts prays let it stay on top of my list for the rest of my
life. I AM CONTENT. You too, buy a DVD and get busy living.


******
1 October 2004
10

It's been a long time since I saw the movie and I still have it as the
best memory when I sit in front of TV and enjoy the magic of a
magnificent movie.Yesterday, we had a discussion on a Chinese movie board about which is
the best movie in history. The answer was Shawshank's Redemption. It's
a movie delivering good sense of hope in life and the best story to
inspire people truly from inside. I feel I gotta say something about
it again when it's the time of 10 years anniversary for such a great
movie.Many people are still talking about whether it should have got above
Forest Gump in 1995 Oscar. I personally think it's reasonable for
Forest Gump winning Oscar. But I think there is one actor who should
have won a supporting actor : James Whitmore who acted old Brook in the
movie. I don't know why, but his character impacted me the most. Esp.
when he got free and began narrate the letter he wrote to his prison
folks. I am a young man and did not have enough experience in life, but
I felt something there, strongly, something that made me moved to
tears. The director did great jobs in this sense, bringing quite a few
characters who are far yet close to us. They have weakness and doubt in
life just like we did in our lives. Everyone make mistakes, some are
small which can be ignored, some are so big that even a life time
sentence does not judge enough. But they are common. the thing is what
you realize in life: Incarnation or refreshment.I cant say how much the movie changed my life. This might be the only
movie so far to change my life ever. But I can say I became a better
person after this. (I am not saying I was a bad guy , keke). And I will
think about hopes no matter how bad are the situations. The movie is
pure magic.I saw the movie with my mom, who usually does not see Hollylwood
movies. But this is the second movie which did not make her
sleep.(keke, the other one was Titanic) I did not expect anything more
from the movie , yet it ended as a magic night for me. I can keep going on and on talking about how great the movie was. And I
think the reason for those people who do not enjoy the movie that much
is because they already know or expect too many things before seeing
it. I am sorry that nowadays there are not so good movies around in
Hollywood and I hope I can find another magic one soon. I will buy the coming DVD and put in my shelf. I hope someday I can let
my son see it and tell him how important hope is.


******
30 June 2004
10

I made my Stephen King debut with this particular story when I was in
my late teens. Frank Darabont shot a wonderful adaptation which is not
very common. Great actor Tim Robbins played the unfortunate Dufresne
with such a grace that you never think that the guy was very small in
size in the original story. Morgan Freeman is in his prime playing Red,
the most useful person in the jail. The suicide of the old prisoner and
the last scene where both friends meet are the most emotional ones. And
of course we should salute the most beautiful supporting actress ever,
Rita Hayworth. Darabont never tries to steal parts from the original
story. May be this is why the film is always remembered as a good piece
of art.


******
19 June 2004
10

I think this movie is clearly a 10. To call it the second best movie of all
time might be a bit over the top. However, it is impressive that it has got
almost 120.000 votes. Anyway, I thought it was really interesting. Tim
Robbins is a very good actor and so is Morgan Freeman. Anyway, there is one
thing that annoys me, and that is the focus on what one might call
"transgression". I mean the warden and sadistic prison guards - all this is
a bit too far out I think and works to the movies disadvantage. The love of
transgression is always followed by some kind of sentimental prejudice.
However, that does not damage the movie as a whole. It´s really an amazing
story which keeps you guessing till the end. 

******
18 June 2004
10

If you have never seen this movie, you are missing out on one of the
best movies ever made. Tim Robbins makes you feel like you are living his role in the movie.
Morgan Freeman is, well what can I say, he does an award winning
performance. This movie is about the lives of two prisoners (and others) inside the
walls of Shawshank Prison. It covers so many aspect of prison life.
Both the bad and the good. This movie reflect the acceptance of life on
the inside, and does it in a very real way.All of the characters do an amazing performance. The prison setting is
so real for a setting in the 40's and 50's.Take a few hours from your busy life, and spend it enjoying this movie.
You will enjoy this, I promise.


******
31 May 2004
10

The greatest story ever told? Probably not. But it's up there!Best acting ever performed. Nope. But it's comparative to it!Best directing? No, but darn good directing.Best music? Nope, but it certainly fits well.Cinimatics? Special effects? Nope Nope.Now, put them all together. Suddenly they all become the best. Ever,
and meet up here in this film. So much so that it gains an almost
lifelike quality, as you share Andrew Dufresne's journey the first time
through, and only ever so slightly less so each time after.


******
26 May 2004
10

I had heard this film was good and saw it sat at number 2 in the top
250
and appears in many all time great films top five list.You could say myexpectations were a little high.This sort of thing can spoil a film,you expect a lot and it doesn't
deliver,mainly due to the fact you listened to the word on the street and
were let down.It Shawshanks case,however,this was NOT the
case.I have been putting off watching this film for years,don't know
why,
just one of those films I never got round to watching,what i didn't
know
was a 'classic','epic' was gathering dust on my shelf and i didn't know
it.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are superb and not many films get me choked
at the end,didn't quite get me but it was sure close!This film is a feel good film,an unlikely one maybe and tinged with sadness
but all the more reason to watch,i'll be watching it again
I
can assure you that.

******
25 May 2004
10

This masterpiece has taught me the meaning of the word hope. The ending
was far better than winning the lottery or even accomplishing your
dreams.Superb acting by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, a job beautifully
executed.When my little girl is old enough to understand the concepts of life,
hope and dreams I will be sure to watch this movie beside her, God
permit.If you have not seen this movie, I highly recommend you do so. I will
do my best to remember the words of wisdom and caring actions
demonstrated by the character Andy. If we all did, we would all live in
a better world.10/10


******
23 May 2004
10

The ending of this movie might be the most rewarding ending I've ever
seen, from a movie-goers point of view. Not only is Andy an innocent
man, it seems he suffers more than all the guilty men around him. After
he climbs out of the sewer and tastes freedom after decades of unjust
imprisonment, his passion for his newly found freedom is almost
palpable from the theatre seat or my home sofa (wherever I'm watching
it). I challenge you to find a movie with a better ending. Questions:
Is Andy raped by the "sisters" or no? I thought Morgan Freeman's
voice-over was kind of unclear on this point. Number two. What are the
odds that the tin box that contains the money and note wouldn't be all
rusted out?


******
21 May 2004
10

I never intended to ever watch this movie. A girlfriend of mine told me
"you'll love it." And after I finished watching it I was stunned. No
movie other than "The Accidental Tourist" has had such an influence on
my life. This movie is about hope and it shows you that it can never be
lost. It also shows you that the weakest looking people may actually be
the strongest. The thing about Shawshank Redemption is even if you hate
dramas you'll appreciate this movie nevertheless. This movie stopped me
from being an action genre junkie and turned me into a connoisseur of
great movies. Even though there is no science-fiction in this movie
you'll still feel that its magical. However, the first time you view it
will be the best. Go see it.......it'll make your day brighter!


******
19 May 2004
10

This movie is the greatest source of inspiration within my life. I mean
the line that says, "Hope is a good thing; maybe even the best of
things and no good thing ever dies." That line just brings hope (haha)
to my daily life. The acting in this movie is sensational. Ever since I
saw this movie I have reached a whole new level of appreciation and
respect for Tim Robbins. Morgan Freeman is awe inspiring. Some people
don't appreciate this type of movie and disrespect the meaning of the
film. It is seen to others as a modern portrayal of the crucifixion and
resurrection of Jesus. This movie is spectacular and any one who
doesn't like it or hasn't seen it is insane.


******
16 May 2004
10

The first time I saw this movie, I went in with a negative attitude. It
looked drab and boring. No explosions, no special effects, no stunts,
no females... no chance it would be good, right. Wrong! The on-screen
duo of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman should be the envy of any actors
that ever have to share a set with other actors. The supporting cast
was remarkable, and the storyline is second to none. I'm glad I sucked
it up that first time, because without that first time watching "The
Shawshank Redemption", I would have never been able to watch it the
twenty times that I have. Will go down as one of the best movies in the
history of cinema, and will get no argument from me!


******
5 May 2004
10

Despite all of it's flaws, it is a good film. A film I can watch over and
over. It sticks, it holds, it is like great mascara and hairspray rolled
into one big great mess. Andy is like me. Red is like me.
Brooks....I like a lot about it. It's spellbounding. A picture worth a thousand
words
breathtaking. Living inside it, not imagining anything else. It is a
wonderful amazing piece of rubbish.I'd like to thank Darabont, the screenwriter and the director, for finding
a
heart in a story to give to the masses. We love you too.Give it up for Mr. Andy Dufresne!

******
22 February 2004
8

This is a very thrilling movie that kept me spellbound. The acting is first
rate. Morgan Freeman is superb and so is Tim Robbins. The reason why in my
opinion it only deserves 8 out of 10 rather than 9 is that the story is not
that great. Anyone who has seen his or her share of prison films will have
come across all the standard ingredients: brutality by the staff, abuse by
fellow prisoners, corruption at the top, we have seen it all before (cf. for
example Brubaker). Despite these reservations, the acting, music and
direction makes up for it. An evening well spent!

******
13 January 2004
10

If your like me and have bought the limited edition DVD then you should
of
seen it.  I thought it was pretty good but gave the same insight to the
film
that I've always had.  I mean it was interesting because I love the film
so
much but I wanted more of an opinion from producers and directors.
Anyway
what do you think?

******
2 January 2004
10

Amazing that a movie with this much misery can be about hope. Great
performances throughout. Thomas Newman does a fantastic job with the
soundtrack here as he does on American Beauty and Road to Perdition. Also
he
took cousin Randy's role in Finding Nemo.

******
26 December 2003
8

1 VERY MINOR SPOILER INCLUDED.I will openly admit that the whole reason I watched this movie is because
it
is ranked number 2 on the IMDb top 250. I will further admit that, yes,
the
movie is great. But #2 of all time? Mmmmm... no.
There aren't particularly any flaws with the film, aside from the fact
that
it spans a 20 year period and nobody seems to age at all. The
performances
are stellar and it desrves to be lauded as a great film. If you haven't
seen
it, see it, you will be glad you did. I was.

******
3 December 2003
10

I've seen the film almost a dozen times. I am fascinated. The most
important
thing in the film is the intelligence which allows Andy to survive, to
build
his own world, to separate him from the surroundings. Unfortunately, J
feel
it is impossible in the real world.

******
2 December 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption is right up there with my favourite movies. Its
probably the best deep story example of a movie that I
like.The film is a touching tale of the dehumanizing effects of a life in
prison,
a modern version of which can be seen on HBO's Oz. I digress, the first
time
I saw this movie, I was actually touched by the story.I began to feel crappy for Andy, I understood Red's bitterness, disgusted
when Andy crawled out the crap pipe. The movie tells a very very
powerfully
depressing story, but to keep the watcher from getting mad has an
amazingly
uplifting ending, that makes the story seem worth it.Amazing, enough said.

******
25 November 2003
10

Why talk so much about this movie when the movie already speaks for itself
as one of the best film of all time. The movie is too good to be explain
by
me; you have to see it for yourself.Exceptional.Max- 9.5/10

******
25 November 2003
9

This is one of King's best movies. It's about a guy who is accused of
killing his wife and is sent to prison. He meets a man named Red in
prison
who he sort of inspires to do more with his life. Near the end something
happens that you would never expect and is very interesting. This is a
great
movie and the director did a great job in showing Stephen King's book and
not wrecking it.

******
22 November 2003
10

This ranks as one of my all time favourite movies. There is so much to
love
about this movie, the characters, Morgan Freeman's narration and the
story.
The movie runs for quite a while, but it hardly seems so. A definite must
own movie.

******
17 November 2003
10

The best movie ever made.
Perfect acting, direction, script, music etc.
It was seriously robbed at the Oscars in the worse Academy Award mistake
of
recent years.There is no film better.
That's all there is to say.


******
11 November 2003
10

Just watch the movie.  I don't care what kind of movies you might
typically
be a fan of because this one carries true meaning.  Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman are at their best.  If you are ever feeling down, then pop this in
the player because it helps.  I just love this movie.  I only hope I can
look forward to a movie in the future that will touch me the way this one
has!See it!  I promise you won't regret it.

******
7 November 2003
9

This film has the best of what films are supposed to be. This not your
everyday prison movie. This a story of friendship and hope. The story and
the resulting script are riveting. You are gathered into the story and
become engrossed with the progress of the action and the character
development.   The performances are superior at both the star and
supporting
levels. Morgan Freeman is superb as is James Whitmore. The filming is so
good that you forget you are watching a movie and practically believe you
are viewing the real thing. One of the top ten. 

******
4 November 2003
10
This film is a film which is moving, dramatic and emotional. It has
characters being introduced all throughout the film and makes the film
never
ending, like Andy's sentence. Freeman and Robbins are both talented actors
and bring to the film their own qualities, you never get tired of seeing
them. I first saw 'The Green Mile' before i saw this and thought that
Frank
Darabont made the most moving film ever, but i was wrong. 'The Shawshank
Redemption' has scenes of laughter, sad and shear disgust, this is what
makes it so powerful. This film is number one in my DVD collection and
never
get tired of watching it.
I honestly recommend it to anyone who likes a late night movie full of
emotion.


******
24 October 2003
10

In every way shape and form, through and through, the greatest movie
ever.
This doesn't mean my favorite.  This means the art direction the music
the
story the acting the lighting the ect ect ect were flawless.  Total
package
of perfection.

******
22 October 2003
10

Too bad about Tim Robbins' politics, because this is one of the best
movies
ever made. I never get tired of it. Plot is tightly woven and everything
fits together. I particularly enjoy Morgan Freeman, but there are no weak
players. This movie deserves to be at the top of the list.

******
17 October 2003
6

<<WARNING: EXTREME SPOILERS>>I won't argue that this is a really good film. It is. But I've always felt
it's been built up a bit too much. It's well-structured, well-paced, and
Morgan Freeman gives a brilliant performance, along with all of his
co-stars. But it's still something of a modern fairy tale. We never doubt
that things will turn out all right in the end for Andy and Red, or that
Norton will get his comeuppance. This, combined with a tendency to get
cloying, particularly with the opera record and the spunky kid, effectively
knocks it out of the running as one of the all-time greats.All this aside, however, it's impact can't be denied either. Frank Darabont
may have let his sentimentality go raging out of control on The Green Mile
next, but he just enough restraint here to move us almost to tears. And this
same emotional black-and-white treatment allows plot points that might have
been laughed of in a more cynical film to feel perfectly satisfying. Tell me
you didn't raise a fist in triumph when Norton blew his brains out. And
regarding sentiment, it certainly wasn't 1994's worst offender. Matching
Forrest Gump for saccharine value would tax even Darabont's
skills.

******
15 October 2003
10

Has to undoubtedly be one of the best movies of all time.  Casting,
acting,
plot, cinematography, musical score.  Everyone should see this movie to
know
what a good movie is.  The plot twist at the very end was in itself a work
of art.  10/10.

******
30 September 2003
9

To me, for a movie to be in the Top 10 all-time, it has to hold up torepeated viewings. This one does not. I can watch Jaws, City Slickers,Goodfellas, Titanic, everytime they are on because they exude a certainfeeling of a certain time and space. I am sure everyone here has moviesthat do that to them. Yes, I enjoyed Shawshank Redemption immensely whenI first saw it. I was suprized at the ending and found it holding myattention throughout. But just like Usual Suspects, after you know theending, and the cat is out of the bag, so to speak, the movie becomesjust a collection of characters and acting. And unless you aremesmerized by the performances, the movie just loses it's appeal. Unlikemovies that have more of a attitude or aural feel to them where you getcaught up in the ambience of the movie(stuff like City Slickers,Godfather, Goodfellas, Chinatown..) this movie just doesn't hold upbased strictly on the performances. I love Morgan Freeman and will watchmost anything he is in, especially Driving Miss Daisy and Seven. Itamazes me how this movie is considered the #2 movie alltime by thiss

******
13 September 2003
10

This film is definitely in my top 10 of all time list.  It is a powerful
story and probably the best movie about friendship ever made.  But hands
down the one element that makes it a great movie is Morgan Freeman's
performance.  I've seen this movie a dozen times or more, and his
narration
never fails to hook me.

******
28 August 2003
9

I absolutely loved the origional novella "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption" by Stephen King on which the movie is based, and the movie
perfectly reproduced the emotional response i had from the novella. Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman were definitely the best choices to play the
two
leads. I thought that Robbins in particular deserved an academy award for
his portrayal of Andy Dufresne. If you havn't seen this movie yet, rent it
right now! You will not be disapointed. 

******
4 August 2003
10

This show was great. In my opinion it is the best show that Tim Robbins is
in, Morgan Freeman's best show as well (besides Se7en). But still a great
film.10/10 

******
25 July 2003
9

The Shawshank Redemption is a film about the wrongful conviction of
banker
Andy Dufresne,(tim robbins) who is convicted of murder and sentenced to
two
back to back life imprisonments.In the beginning of the film you
primarily
think of Andy to be somewhat of a "cold fish". By the way that his
"icy-cold" facial expressions appear, on first viewing it really makes
you
ponder if he is guilty. After months at Shawshank, Andy begins bonding
with
inmate "Red" Redding, who is very well known to the prisoners to get
items
for them from time to time. Andy is soonly aware, and gets many helping
items in his own personal scheme. During the film you will learn that
Shawshank is a corrupt Maine penitentiary that doesn't tolerate
inappropriate behaviour, especially with head guard Byron Hadley, who is
as
mean as they come.During the film, Andy overhears Byron talking about inheritance money
from
his deceased brother with fellow guards. Andy, being the "hot-shot"
banker
that he is, confronts Byron and eventually works out a deal with him,
after
a near-death experience. Andy eventually gains recognition with the
guards
and helps them set-up their banking. Warden Samuel Norton notices Andy's
talent and hires him as a library assistant working alongside a man by
the
name of Brooks. After the passing of Brooks,(who was released on parole)
Shawshank upgrades the library with the shere help of Andy who takes over
as
head librarian.
Things really take a twisted turn when new inmate Tommy Williams arrives
at
Shawshank for assault and battery, and later is discovered to have the
very
evidence that could possibly free Andy Dufresne. Holding back from the
truth, Norton denies the evidence to be possible and punishes Andy. The
thing I find so very odd-striking about Norton is that he believes in the
bible, but leads another life of corruptness and cruelty. But after all
he
is a warden, and they aren't ever nice, according to the advice of
Brooks.I won't give a way anything, but that's just say that Norton disposed any
of
Andy's evidence of getting out of prison in front of a judge and jury.
Eventually though, hope set Andy free without parole.(you do the math)
That's just say that after that, Shawshank prison took a turn for the
better.Personal Note: I found this to be the greatest prison movie that has ever
graced cinematography. This movie does appear to be a bit overrated on
imdb,
but definitely deserves to be in the top 20 anyday.
I thoroughly enjoyed this film, and the more I watch it, I get a funnier
feeling for all of the characters. Great Movie. 8.5/10

******
27 June 2003
10

What an amazing movie.  The performances, even by the bit players, are
fantastic, the story is wonderful, the mood is great...this is about as
close as you can get to a perfect film.  The fact that Steven King wrote
it
makes it all the more amazing.Although one might be tempted to think of this as a prison movie, it's
not;
it's about hope and redemption.  The hope is embodied in Tim Robbins'
character (Andy); the redemption in Morgan Freeman, Red (whose redemption
comes as a result of Andy's hope).

******
24 June 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption is a perfect film in every aspect. It has a
beautiful score (Thomas Newman) and amazing cinematography. The acting is
brilliant and the movie stands up well to repeat viewings. The only minor
negative that I have for the film is that the main characters don't seem
to
age enough in the 20 or 30 years that they're in prison. But this is just
a
minor quibble. Don't let it deter you from watching this movie. It is a
great story and every household should have this in their collection.


******
22 June 2003
10

One of the best movie's I've seen. As for prison-movies, if you've seen
this
one you dont have to see any other, it surpasses them all. I was quite
unfamiliar with the acting of Tim Robbins before i saw this movie, and I
must say he did an excellent job. Morgan Freeman is always superb as a
supporting actor, and this movie was no exception.
I recommend this movie to anyone that's not scared to watch an intelligent
movie with good dialogues, it's not for the pure action-fans a la Robocop,
it's a serious movie, but never too mellow.

******
21 June 2003
10

Shawshank deserves to be named one of the top 10 movies ever created and
its
a shame it came out the same year as Forrest Gump. Any other year in the
1990's and it would have obtained the Best Picture Oscar. Morgan Freeman
gives the greatest performance of his career and considering all the
memorable performances he's given, thats really saying something. Robbins
is
also terrific as Andy Dufrense, the wrongly convicted wife killer. James
Whitmore also gives a memorable performance as the lovable Brooks Hatlen.
Frank Darabont really outdid himself with this masterpiece. A must see for
all ages!My rating : @@@@@ (out of five)

******
19 June 2003
10

One of the best movies of the '90's, The Shawshank Redemption is a an
impressive story about finding and keeping hope in a situation where it's
only logical to despair...Spoilers ahead...With brilliant performances by Tim Robbins (and why didn't he get an Oscar
nomination too?) and Morgan Freeman (who did get a nomination, but didn't
win) it follows the story of a man, Andy, wrongly accused for the murder of
his wife and her lover, going to spend his next 20 years in a maximum
security penitentiary - Shawshank - where the inmates are less than friendly
and helpful... until you get to know them: then you'll love some and hate
others, and fear a few.More brutal than the inmates are the guards, who have no problems in busting
a new frightened inmate's head right in the middle of the night in front of
everyone, leaving him to die.With intelligence, lots of wit and patience, Andy manages to survive in that
hell and turn the lives of inmates and guards upside-down, and bring some
hope back to a world behind bars, sometimes costing him his personal
safety.Emotional and nurturing until the end, The Shawshank Redemption has one of
the most beautiful endings to a movie, reinforcing the theme of friendship
and loyalty.10 out of a brilliant 10, this is a movie no one should miss, if just to
learn how to be better people again...

******
18 June 2003
10

Going into this movie I was not very excited.  It turned out to be one of
the best movies I have ever seen. It is absolutely phoenomenal and
extremely
moving.  It shows how infallible the human spirit can be with hope
guiding
it.

******
18 June 2003
10

What can I say about Shawshank Redemption this movie has everything
you
possibly can in a movie like great writting,great acting,and great
directing.Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins give thier best performance of
thier life in this great movie.Frank Darabont does a great job with the
writting and  Directing.I'm surprised this movie didn't win any oscars.Who
cares this movie is still the greatest thing to ever hit the theater.This
movie is going to be remember forever.This is truly a great movie in every
category.A classic to always remember.

******
17 June 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption is probably the most widely loved movie in all of
Western culture.  It's fleshed out characters give it the uncanny ability to
deeply touch most of the people who watch it.  We relate to Freeman's
character who has lost hope in society.  Robbins' is the friend who redeems
us and gives hope back.  Gunton, who plays Warden Norton, is one of the most
overlooked villains of all time.  He makes the greatest villain because he
is the most realistic and relatable.  He isn't a crazy murderer, he is a
corrupt religious official.  I believe this movie gets better when you have
already seen it and know what happens.  Seeing the wardern get what's coming
to him is consistently satisfying.  And of course, the famous beach scene
leaves me on a high every time.  11/10

******
16 June 2003
10

After reading the two tirades submitted three days-apart (May 28/03 & June
1/03), absolutely shredding this fine film I felt I had to submit my own
views.  Everyone is indeed entitled to their own opinions, but when so
many
people love this film and give it the highest kudos possible I have to
wonder about the judgement of someone who gives it a zero out of ten!
Shawshank has become one my personal favorites over the years and if there
was an injustice done in the 1994 Oscars, it's that the film didn't win.
I
was surprised at the time that the voting membership gave Forest Gump the
nod over Shawshank for best picture, but Gump was full of U.S. patriotism
and that always goes a long way at the Oscars.  The Oscar Committee should
maybe check Gump's position in the IMDB top 250 list, or lack of position
as
the case may be.  Shawshank, based on a Stephen King short story and
directed by Frank Darabont (The Green Mile and The Majestic, two more of
my
favorites) is a very well written tale of one mans' false conviction,
subsequent imprisonment and his life long crusade to gain his freedom.  It
is about not surrendering to the hopelessness that must overcome even the
strongest of wills after decades behind bars.  It is about brotherhoods
and
friendships bonded over decades and also about the hatreds and evil that
the
same elements can foster.  Like the other great prison film, Cool Hand
Luke,
the movie takes the side of the prisoners against the system, In story the
warden and head guard are portrayed as truly evil as the rapists and
murderers that they hold sway over.
This film indeed deserves its high position on the best of list, and in my
opinion should perhaps be moved up one more notch!


******
16 June 2003
10

Redemption is a powerful tool and the dynamic tim robbins plays his
character to absolute perfection. After being convicted for a crime of
passion he did not commit, we follow the eyes of andy dufrane and his
sometimes brutal encounters in the shawshank prison. Loss, entrapment and
the powerful word 'hope' are some of the initial thoughts i have about the
film, but the ending where a lanscape of the perfect shade of blue in the
form of the ocean attests the beauty of this film- where there is hope and
the psychological will to out- manuver the seemingly futile surrounding
walls forms the heart of humanity and its existence

******
8 June 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of the top 10 American movies ever made.
It
is written by American's greatest and best selling author Steven King. The
acting, directing, etc., in the movie is perfect. Tim Robbins plays the
perfect character in the movie and Morgan Freeman gives another stunning
performance.

******
2 June 2003
10

It is the best movie ever. I can`t stop watching it! You must see it! A
Guy
is put to jail for murdering his wife and her lover. The movie is more
about
Andy Dufrane... and his actions in different situations. It has a great
end,
and like i said... probably the best movie ever in the history of
movies...

******
30 May 2003
10

Best movie i have ever seen.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are amazing here... just
brilliant!
I would recommend it to anyone who loves a real movie, with and excellent
story, acting and spirit.


******
29 May 2003
10

You cannot but feel a sense of unbridled joy when Andy stretches his arms
out and feels the rain fall on his face the moment he is free. i own the
DVD
and i watch it at least once a month and i never fail to get chills on my
neck on that scene.once again: one of the most inspiring movies of all time.


******
27 May 2003
10

This movie (The Shawshank redemption) is the masterpiece. The best movie
i
have ever seen.And as i see, im not the only one here thinking so.It is the shame for the Academy not to give any Oscars to this movie in
1994. This is the reason why i think Academy/Oscar is not
real
measure for movie/actor quality.I am very sorry that we will never see the second part (The Shawshank
redemption 2).Great work Tim, Morgan, Clancy Brown, Bill Sadler, Gil, James, Mark,
director, screenwriters etc. !Greetings from Croatia.PS: If any movie has its message within, this is the one.

******
15 May 2003
10

Shawshank Redemption is the type of movie that all prison movies should be.
In fact it is the type of drama that every drama should be. To date I can't
think of a film that has just as much or even more character development
than this film. And what better place to have it in? Both Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman make this movie what it is through the characters. Through
Robbins, we can see a character who is determine and will never give up. And
through Freeman we see a man who knows the truth about life inside and the
bold truth. We see most of that through Freeman's reflection in his role as
the narrator. 
   I love everything about this film. The cast, sets, characters, scores,
script, everything. There are only a few movie that are just as good as
this; but shouldn't be compared because like some movies in the film
industry because it is the key to cinematic brilliance.

******
17 April 2003
10

Such a great film.  Great acting, great cinematography, the list goes on
and
on.  Undoubtedly a great film, not necessarily good enough for #2 of all
time, but great.  Don't miss this one.  I give it 10 out of
10.

******
16 April 2003
10

I have seen this movie twice and even the second time it was still a very
special movie although you know what is going to happen...Big compliment for
writer Stephen King! (I am wondering if it really happend, although it is
too good to be true). Wonderfull acting, great story...with emotional
moments but not overdone in any way. My favorite scene is when Andy receives
the old books and records (big black CD's from the old days:-) and plays a
part from a opera through the prison intercom!
If you do have the chance: watch it!

******
13 April 2003
10
I caught this movie close to the end just as Morgan Freeman was staring
at the beam on the ceiling considering suicide. He plucks up the
courage to go out look for a job and try to reintegrate himself into
the system but he's been away for the better part of a century. Things
have moved on and he's been pegged into that corner of existence known
as Shawshank prison.When it ended, I vowed to watch it again and I finally caught it again
last year. The message is strong and vibrant, it resonates throughout
the movie; HOPE NEVER DIES!! It is our steel, our spine, it's what
separates men from beasts. The movie was a warming experience, I have
learnt from it that friendship has ties that can survive anything,
time, stress, human failings, ANYTHING!! I wanted to walk tall and
shout Peace and Love to everyone.The Shawshank Redemption liberated me from the fear of suffering.Morgan Freeman (who is my icon any-day) blows the screen away just like
he did in "Lean On Me". Unlike "Lean On Me" however, gentle persuasion
and steady encouragement take the place of fiery enthusiasm. Red gives
Andy the encouragement he needs to fight his way out of his situation
but he teaches him to fight with his mind and heart.Tim Robbins' emotionless Andy is eerie to watch as he drifts languidly
with that glint in his eye that tells of wisdom born of suffering. I
watched as the innocence faded from his face and he "grew" his plan. It
is ironic that the person who was saved in jail for being spineless and
weak, was the one who saved his friend from losing out to the world. When the warden shoots his own brains out, I yelled "Justice" at the TV
screen. The tag-line for me is "Hope Is A Good Thing" It really is...

******
13 April 2003
10

Sure, everyone is entitled to his opinion, but in the case of The
Shawshank
Redemption, the statement "This movie is not a 1 on a 1 to 10 scale" is
not
an opinion, it's a fact.  There are no sensible arguments that can be
made
for this being a 1.

******
7 April 2003
10

In reading many reviews of this film, it is evident that people will
either
absolutely love it, or absolutely loath it.  I definitely am sided with
the
loving of the movie, however I believe some people are catching a
different
reason about why it is so enjoyable.  Those who hate this movie definitely
don't see the same message and definitely don't get the point.  This movie
is not made to be a "typical prison movie"  because this one doesn't focus
on those same ideas.  Sure, there are similarities, but that's to be
expected.  As far as I know (for never having gone to prison)  these
depictions of prison are accurate, however, this film differs in the fact
it
is about HOPE.  The movie isn't just about the main character trying to
free
himself from prison, it is about his journey through so many years of
being
beaten, raped, and abused, and never losing his hope.  The other prisoners
in this movie tell him that hope is a dangerous thing, that it can drive
people crazy.  He ignores the warnings and keeps his hope.  The most
beautiful scene in this film is when he plays the music of the opera over
the loud speaker.  "And just for that one moment, every last man in
Shawshank felt free" are roughly the words Morgan Freeman says in his
commentary.  With the cinematography and the words, the feeling of hope is
even implanted in the viewers themselves.
I ask that those who dislike this film take it from that aspect the next
time they see it, instead of an analytical viewpoint, focusing on
directing
style, costumes, "typical prison stuff" and other things and just let
their
souls take in the true meaning and feeling of hope, and what a beautiful
emotion it is.  I also ask that those who love it view the movie again and
put yourself in a position where you felt there was no hope, that no one
could help you but yourself, and let yourself become entangled in this
wonderful web of hope and truly let this film be a redemption of your mind
and soul.

******
31 March 2003
10

There is one simple reason why the Shawshank Redemption is the second
best
movie I've ever seen.  It made me want to be a BETTER PERSON.  It actually
changed my life.  I wanted to help and be kinder to others after watching
it.  The character of Andy defines the human spirit and how a person whose
life is based on values of honesty, goodness, and freedom, will not be
compromised no matter what the situation.
Others may have their opinions that it isn't that great based on
artistic
and technical merits, but they don't understand, it is the STORY that is
compelling and what that story represents.
The reason it is #2 in the voting is because it resonates that universal
truth of the human spirit.
It also portrays how one person by being resolute in their goodness can
affect others and lift them up.  That is why this movie has so many
emotional high points.  Andy is constantly lifting those around him and
making their lives better even in one of the hell holes of our
society.
The two most emotional points in the movie for me are when he plays the
music and when Andy and Red embrace on the beach in Zihuatenejo,
Mexico.(Bye the way, my #1 favorite movie of all time is 'A Man for All Seasons'
which is similar to Shashank in that it tells the story of a man who is
uncompromising in his beliefs.)

******
30 March 2003
10

this is a one of the best ever made movies.when i first saw the picture i
was very impressed.the end is just great.personally i hate hollywood
stupid
happy endings but this one... it's just so good
u did a good job all of u who vote for this movie
tudor


******
29 March 2003
10

This is truly one of the best films I have ever seen. Usually I don`t like
these kinds of movies, but in a strange way this film was different. The
time just flew away, this i a must see movie. So if you haven`t seen it
yet,
so go and rent it, you will not regret it.

******
26 March 2003
10

Based on the Stephen King Short Story, This movie, a prison story is a
unique tale of a man wrongfully placed in prison, who was married and wife
murdered by someone else. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins plays the lead
parts  and makes this a movie worth seeing. 

******
21 March 2003
10

I think this is an excellent film, I'm a bit of a "prison film freak" so
among all prison films I'll rate this one as the second best. obviously
Escape from Alcatraz with Clint Eastwood is the absolute best
one!
Well back to Shawshank.. The way the film is made is just extraordinary!!
I
Love the way Morgan Freeman plays his sympathetic character.. last part is
a
bit disappointing, cause it's too similar to escape from Alcatraz.Well anyway it'll get *******/**********

******
20 March 2003
10

Complete void of spoilers herein, only read on if you like ridiculous praise
of a movie on a mammoth scale.I just watched The Shawshank Redemption for the second time, and for the
second time it took my breath away. There is just no real word to describe
the extraordinary piece of cinema that has been created
here.It tells the story of wrongly accused murderer, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins),
and his story of survival inside a maximum security prison, aided by his
friendship with 'the only guilty man inside Shawshank', Ellis 'Red' Reddings
(Morgan Freeman). Along the way it branches into at least six different side
stories that, halfway through the movie, while still entertained, one
wonders what they have to do with the plot. The answer is everything, as
becomes apparent by the end.I won't bore you with details of the individual craftsmanship that went into
this movie, but I will advise anyone who has not seen it to see it, and as
soon as possible. Keep watching until the end, and there is no possible way
you can be disappointed. It is absolutely masterly directed by Frank
Darabont, and while I thought that his other Stephen King-based film, The
Green Mile, was fairly slow and self-indulgent, this isn't. It is drawn out
and long, but absolutely impeccable and amazingly inspirational. It delivers
the message that even in the face of abject adversity, hope will always
prevail. This message was recently hammed up quite terribly in "The Two
Towers", but in The Shawshank Redemption, just one very simple quote sums it
up: "Hope is a good thing. Possibly the best thing. And no good thing ever
dies"This is one for the ages. I cannot imagine that the uplifting effect of this
movie will ever die. There is no possible way it could be better. The only
possible reason I can think of for not liking or being inspired by this
movie is that you just don't want to. There are no two ways about it. Even
after nine years, this holds strong as an absolute masterpiece of
film-making, and a staggering achievement. Five stars out of
five.

******
19 March 2003
10

Rarely a movie that tries to be touching achives its purpose.  More often
then not I find myself wanting to throw up at the serious of movies.
While
Shawshank redemption was very touching, I was to busy being engaged in the
story line and the charecters to worry about the inspirational aspect of
the
movie.  Every single character serves a purpose in this movie.  Tim
Robbins
gives a great performance as an innocent man in prison for the murder of
his
wife.  His character doesn't dread on the horrible reality that is before
him, he just takes it.  His character seems so loss in his new reality and
needs some guidence which he finds in other inmates.  Shawshank redemption
offers a realistic view of prison life, and at the same time creates one
of
the most engaging storylines ever.    

******
18 March 2003
10

With all due respect to Forrest Gump, this was the real best picture of
1994. Tim Robbins gives the best performance of his career, and Morgan
Freeman is his usually outstanding self. The story is totally engrossing,
and never loses your attention. And if you are watching the movie for the
first time, the ending will throw you for a loop. This is one of the most
underrated films of all time. It deserves must more respect than it
usually
receives.

******
17 March 2003
10

**POSSIBLE SPOILERS (nothing too specific)**Watching The Shawshank Redemption is a downright religious experience; it
is
truly a film to treasure, and one that nobody who sees it will ever
forget.
Director Frank Darabont's translation of a Stephen King novella to the
screen is not a great film because of the story itself-the plot is
actually
quite simple and could be carried out in under an hour with relative
ease-but because of the way the story unfolds.  Shawshank is a lengthy
film
(clocking in around 150 minutes), but it doesn't feel so long because the
leading actors are spot-on perfect, the pace is beautifully metered, and
the
emotions (which are never the least bit contrived) build to one of the
tensest climaxes in American cinema.The story is told not from the perspective of Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins),
banker imprisoned for a double-homicide he didn't commit, and the main
character in this epic tale, but from the perspective of Red (Morgan
Freeman), `the only guilty man in Shawshank Prison.'  Red has been in
Shawshank for twenty years; he's a well-liked inmate among his peers
because
he's the guy that can obtain some of the luxuries of the outside world.
If
you want a box of cigars or a poster of your favorite pin-up girl, Red's
your man.  Often, throughout the course of the film, we wonder why Andy
isn't telling the story-after all, he's the character we sympathize with
most.  In the end, we know why, and we're glad Red told the story, since
the
film ends up being more about him than Andy.  Andy, instead, is just the
vehicle for Red's realization that hope and perseverance can free the
human
mind.While Red is the resourceful handyman, Andy is the smartest man in
Shawshank.  He hatches a plan to get the other inmates to accept him by
having the guards provide them with alcohol, he comes to be the tax
preparer
for all the guards in Shawshank as well as several neighboring prisons, he
revamps the prison library, and even becomes the personal accountant to
the
warden, a cold man who, we learn, is just as criminal as any inmate.  Yet
all the while, we don't realize just how smart Andy Dufresne is.  We
believe
he'll get his revenge on the legal system that landed him in jail, but
this
movie isn't about vengeance.  It's about making the most of a bad
situation,
and about the lengths a person will go to free himself-physically and
spiritually.The film was nominated for seven Academy Awards in 1994 and lost all of
them, mostly to Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction (both solid films in their
own
right).  In any other year it may have won all seven.  Freeman definitely
deserved every possible accolade for his performance, while Darabont's
direction and Roger Deakins' stark cinematography bring great effect to
the
story.  The Shawshank Redemption is one of the most successful films ever
on
video, and rightfully so.  It's one of the best films ever.


******
14 March 2003
10

As a lover of film, I find it hard to remember my feelings regarding most
of
the films I ever seen. Not so with this film. This is your classic,
'what's
this mum you've got from the video shop, never heard of it, can't be arsed
to watch it.' Ring any bells? I first saw this film about six years ago,
and
I remember as it neared the final scene on the beach, the tears in my
eyes.
It is simply the most moving film I have ever seen, I think because this
is
the end we all wanted, but never thought possible. Both Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman are brilliant, I think Freeman has the best voice-over tone
around. How this film did not win any Oscars is beyond me, it will always
be
one of my all-time favourite films, just brilliant. The line, 'Get busy
living, or get busy dying,' sums up the whole film, and it is a message
for
all; never give up hope for a redemption, and friendship will conquer all
troubles.Anybody who hasn't seen this film, just go and see it for God's sake.
Anybody who doesn't like it - you don't really like films do you? A tad
long
is THE only minor criticism, but I think the length adds drama. You have
to
sit down and watch this all the way through not in bits for the full
effect.Quite simply the best film I have ever, and will ever see.
10/10.

******
12 March 2003
10

Shawshank Redemption is - no doubt- one of the best films I've ever
watched.
Not only the quality of the performance of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins
but also the most amazing and interesting screenplay makes film worth
watching. The film surpasses  Papillon(Butterfly) - one of the best
jail-escape film ever shot - in many aspects. Dustin Hoffman and Steve
Mcqueen are both fine actors with a couple of Oscar Nominations but
Morgan
freeman is surely the real suit for the role. Tim Robbins amazes the
audience with his cold-blooded behaviours from the very beginning till
the
end of the film. If you haven't watched the film yet, it's the one you
should borrow at first chance.

******
4 March 2003
10

You know, now that I think about it, I don't think there is more than one
woman in this film.This is interesting, because the fact is: this is a guy movie. This is the
kind of movie a dad should watch with his son when he's having a hard time.
This is the movie a guy would not be ashamed to feel emotional about.It is the story of a man who goes to prison, but ends up coming out a better
man because of his experiences. And it all ties together so nicely. The
ending is especially touching, even as it moves from the main character
(Robins) to the supporting character/narrator (Freeman). BY the way, the
film was nominated for seven oscars and somehow didn't win any, which is a
tragedy.Every person in the world should see this film, even if you have to see it
on TV, at least give it a shot, you will feel emotional at the end, but like
the lead character, you will be better for it.10/10

******
2 March 2003
10

I saw this movie about a week ago and I really enjoyed it. I also have the
movie and I've seen it about three or four times. It was also on TV.
Morgan
Freeman was terrific as Red. I think that everybody should watch this
movie.
10/10

******
28 February 2003
10

Shawshank Redemption is absolutely my favorite movie of all time. Since
the
very first time I watched Andy and Red I knew I would be an addict. I
must
have seen The Redemption alteast 25-30 times, and it only gets better
every
time I watch it. I give this movie my top recommendation to anyone who
would
like to see it

******
24 February 2003
10

If you are from another planet, and you haven't seen this film yet, you
will
simply be blown away by it.The first time I saw this film, by the end credits I already knew this
was
the best film I was ever likely to see.There's not much more to say about it, except it is sheer drama at it's
best, with a purely fantastic ending.Robbins and Freeman put in performances they will never
repeat.Forrest Gump got the '94 best picture award ahead of this. Don't get me
wrong, Forrest Gump is good, but does in no way compare to
this11/10.

******
19 February 2003
10

I don't think this movie is a the second best of all time. It is one of my
personal favorites and I can't think of any big flaws. Frank Darabont is
great behind the camera, and Robbins and Freeman are powerful in front of
it. The writing is fine, with no cheesy lines to be found. Sure, the movie
is on TV so much it makes me sick, but that's no reason to hate the movie.
That is, however a reason to hate TNT. This is a great movie that beats
Forrest Gump in it's sheer power. How Gump beat this movie in the 94
Oscars,
I don't know. The real race was between Pulp Fiction and this. Simple vs.
original. That's how it should of been.    

******
17 February 2003
10

better than any movie out there. this is the best of the best. frank
darabont did a great job adapting stephen king's novella. it's the great
story and acting that make the film what it is - a masterpiece. i'm just
surprised forrest gump beat the movie in the oscars - NOT RIGHT!
Shankshank
should've received BEST screenplay, director and film.

******
16 February 2003
10

This is one of the great films of all time. One of the 10 best I've ever
seen. The cast is perfect. Tim Robbins was great! So too were Morgan Freeman
as Red (a part actually written for a red haired Irishman) and Bob Gunton as
the Warden. James Whitmore shows that small parts still require great acting
and he is as good as ever. I recommend this film highly.


******
15 February 2003
10

I have seen this movie now a couple of times and I can say that it is one
the best movies ever made! It's not an ordinary movie, it's something
special. Both Robbins and Freeman did an Outstanding role and that's one
thing why I love this movie so much. This is timeless movie, one and only
of
a kind. This should be on everyones must see list! Superb..

******
6 February 2003
10

This is probably my favorite film and deserves all credit is gets on this
site and more.  It gets no mentioning from AFI or other official lists,
but
I would easily put it in the top 10.  It is probably the most riveting
story
in a movie ive seen, from the beginning you are on Tim Robbins side and
how
can you deny that both he and Morgan Freeman give the best performances of
their lives.

******
2 February 2003
10

This is movie making at it's best. This movie has no flaws. Unlike other
movies in it's category this is niether slow moving nor boring. It keeps
you
on the edge of your seat. It has excellent characters, a moving theme, and
subplots that are more intense then some movies alone. Morgan Freeman has
the best narration of all narrations. The music is inspiring. I especially
like the opening of the movie. Starting with his conviction then going on
to
Morgan Freemans character, and conecting the two with the line "when andy
dufrain asked me to get him rita haywrith, I said fine." Then the splendid
shot of the prison. (personally my favorite cinematographic achievment
ever)


******
1 February 2003
10

The first time I've seen this movie was on December 31st, 2001. My
parents
and I were getting ready to down to the city and celebrate the New
Year.My father said it was a great film and it was just on TNT or TBS. I
decided
to watch it, and wow. This has to be the greatest film of
all-time.The acting was excellent, the directing, the writing. Everything. Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins gave excellent jobs. On my all-time favorites
list,
this ranks #3...1. "Rat Race" (2001)
2. "Catch Me If You Can" (2002)
3. "The Shawshank Redemption" (1994)
4. "Terminator 2: Judgment Day" (1991)
5. "Spider-Man" (2002)The only bad aspect of the film was that the ending was too
weak.SPOILER ALERTWhen Freeman's character met Robbin's character on the beach, it was just
dull. I don't even think they ever said a word. They just faded out.
Couldn't they have shown what happens next? Oh, well.SPOILER ALERT OVER.Everything else was great and there were even some funny moments, like
when
the Prison owner guy found out how Robbins' character left the
prison.Since 12/31/01, I've seen the movie four more times, bought the
screenplay
and bought the DVD.10/10

******
31 January 2003
9

I just love this film. People might not know that it is a quite faithful
adaptation from a Stephen King's short story (in the both "four seasons"
where the movies "apt pupil" and "stand by me" were also taken
from).
It is a wonderful homage to all "jail movies", with the corrupted warden,
the savage guardians, the strong desire of escaping... but treated with
such
a human way that you finish loving all characters.
The friendship between Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins is one of the best
ever seen in Movie History, and I can't watch the end without
crying.
The script is perfect, the narration includes many memorable quotes and
there are scenes whose beauty contrasts with the desperation of the people
behind the bars.
If you like movies, if you love cinema, you must see this
movie.


******
29 January 2003
10

This movie is so timeless...it is definitely an instant classic. This
isn't
even my type of movie, but if you have a heart, you will be extremely
moved
by this touching story. I would never hesitate in recommending this movie
to
anyone!

******
27 January 2003
10

This is by far my favorite film, if not the best ever made. The direction
and acting is beyond description, to the point where it could have been a
silent film and we still would have known what was going on. A most
triumphant start to a career for Frank Darabont, who has taken Stephen
King's novella of about a hundred pages and made it into a masterpiece.
It's
about time a website ranked this movie towards its top, because that's
exactly where it deserves to be. 10/10.

******
25 January 2003
9

Awesome Movie. Great performances by the whole acting cast especially
Freeman and Robbins. I thought the warden was an excellent played character
also. The screenwriting was awesome. Too bad this movie was out the same
time as Forrest Gump or perhaps it would of had way more accolades. Still
one of the greatest movies ever. 

******
25 January 2003
10

This movie makes me feel like the energizer bunny - I can keep watching
and
watching and watching...It's incredible.  The Shawshank Redemption is of
the
few movies which I can watch always, even if I know what's
coming.

******
23 January 2003
8

There is just so much good in this film.I'm really surprised that it is ranked as highly as it is.  I don't agree
that it is the second best film of all time.  I do think it is an
extraordinary movie, tho.I could go on and on about it, but many other people have already done
that.
But it is obligatory to say something, isn't it?  How
about:You can make this movie very strange by getting lightly buzzed and
pretending that Tim Robbin's character is actually Nuke Laloosh from Bull
Durham.  ;)

******
20 January 2003
9

This movie was one that I initially missed out on.The film tells the tale of Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), a Executive at a
bank in the midst of the 20th century. Andy is sentenced to prison for the
murder of his wife and her lover, where he meets "Red" or Ellis boyd
Redding
(Morgan Freeman) as his name is. Red is the one guy that every prison has
at
least one of. The man you speak with if you want something from the
outside.Slowly but surely a friendship grows between them and we follow the story
of
how Andy who shows to be a odd individual deals with his time in the
prison,
and repeatedly surprises his new "friends" who have yet to know his real
secret...I'm really fairly sceptical about Dramas, but all i can say is...This movie was great. That's what I'll say about it, I really enjoyed the
great acting and lovely settings that really allowed you to feel as you
were
a part of the story being told. The characters are thought through, and
you'll be treated to both moments of true sorrow and moments of joy while
having this cinematic experience.Even though I'd like to find a flaw to comment on, I can't say that I can.
The story has everything it needs and the movie truly earned it's ranking
among other films.9/10

******
19 January 2003
10

Perhaps the most thoughtful, entertaining, and emotionally powerful and
moving movie I have ever seen. There is nothing like both of the
performances put forth from Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. I am inspired
every time I watch the movie, and will keep going back for inspiration
again
and again...Truly a remarkable piece of filmaking; I believe it is one of the best
movies ever made.

******
18 January 2003
10

Frank Darabont is a genius.
In one of the most critically acclaimed, famous movies in Hollywood history,
the director from France has created a work of art.
Superb performances from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the film
throughout its fairly lengthy duration of 137 minutes smoothly. The film has
a very slow pace, but somehow it is incredible absorbing, not boring in the
slightest.
The story follows Andy Dufresne, (Tim Robbins), a young banker who, despite
protesting innocence, is jailed with back to back life sentences for killing
his wife and her lover that she ran away with.
Once at Shawshank Prison, he developes a friendship with Ellis Boyd Redding-
"Red" (Morgan Freeman). Red is a man who "knows how to get things", i.e  he
smuggles things in from the outside world. What unfolds is not what you
might expect- it's not the kind of prison film that has a gritty, explicit
view of the bad things that happen in prison. Whilst this is shown to a
certain extent, its not as bad as it could be and the bad sides generally
come from the corrupt screws rather than the cons. 
This is a moral tale, as suggested by the tagline "Fear can hold you
prisoner....hope can set you free". It's the kind of film that you can enjoy
immensely, watch again and again, and really take a message about life away
from.
 My favourite film, along with Pulp Fiction of the same year, I give it
10/10

******
11 January 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption is not only the greatest film of the last decade,
but in time, this may become, in the eyes of moviegoers, the best movie ever
made.  The story of wrongfully accussed banker Andy Dufresne, and his
friendship formed with con Ellis Boyd Redding in Shawshank Prison, has
become as universally acclaimed and loved as any other in recent history. 
This is the 'Casablanca' of it's time.  A near-perfect movie that can be
watched hundreds of times and never lose it's impact.  Perhaps its the way
the movie handles the timeless theme of hope, and the trials one man has to
endure to be attain the proverbial redemption of the title.  Maybe it is
because this movie is truth, simple truth, about the triumph of good over
evil, the triumph of reason over madness, the triumph of hope over
everything.

******
9 January 2003
10

What is so special about this movie? Thats what I asked myself when I saw
it
as one of the few IMDB top-rated movies I didn't know yet. Now I know why
it
deserves to be there. It is the best prison movie ever made. Most prison
movies try to accuse the prison system by showing an increasing level of
violence and spectacular escapes. Shawshank Redemption is somewhat
different. The main actor is portrayed from the view of a second person
and
most of the time we see what this person sees. Shawshank prison is not a
monastery, and while there are some violent scenes, most of the violence
we
only learn by the narrative of the second person. The time saved from
depicting violence is spent showing the feelings of the inmates. Beyond
the
perfect technical work in producing this movie, the plot slowly builds up
to
incredible moments of courage and purity. I guess this is what essentially
makes the movie so great, without being pathetic the movie makes us wonder
about our own motives and decisions. Very thought provoking.

******
6 January 2003
10

I have seen both of these movie, and I really can't decide which one of
them
is better. The Shawshank Redemption is a really powerful movie about
human
spirit, and the Godfather is a film about a crime families. And one more
question, if you have seen the Godfather on DVD, what was the quality,
Thank
You!

******
5 January 2003
8

Namely: I liked that movie. Many people love it. I just like it. I like it VERY much.Especially I like Tim Robbins. But the story is just mediocrate. Anyway, the
director is very good and along with Tim and Freeman he is getting us
involved. Few are critical, as usual, saying that there are used too many
stereotypes, but what the heck - in this case!!! - it´s a brilliant movie
anyway! Maybe it´s overrated and deserveres to be on 51th of the best movies
of all time. Then what to do about Memento and LTOTR?? Do you want do put on
a test on voters? Make them see true art as Bergmann, Hitchcock, Lubitsch,
Wilder, Griffith, Ford, Capra, Zinneman, Coppola, Scorsese, Besson and
Stroheim produced it frequently? No! It´s the sign of the times. The
Internet is (still) "new" and the people who are using it are young or at
their best in their middle ages. So let´s take their voting as what it is: a
picture ot our own time. And be fair. If the younger generation likes it -
they may be right!After all: I REALLY liked it. 9/10 Macaulay J. Connor

******
5 January 2003
10

This movie is excellent.  It really makes you feel good.  It's about
hope,
the fight for life and most of all, poetical justice.  Excellent
performances by the cast, visually stunning and has a great deal of
realism
in it.  I totally recommend it.  A+

******
4 January 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption was story about how perseverance, hope and
innocence
will change a man's destiny. Tim Robbins was eloquent and portrayed a
character with acting prowess of razor sharp perfection. Wrongly accused
of
murdering his wife, he ends up in Shawshank Maximum Security Prison, for
life. Here here he befriends Red, played by Morgan Freeman ( a role he
definitely deserved the Best Supporting Actor Oscar ), your typical Jack
of
all traits in the prison. Their story was one of trust, hope and
friendship
which was ultimately the forte of this movie.
Robbins acting was methodical, straight-foward and deservingly captures
our
sympathy. A great supporting cast also gives added strength to an already
perfect movie. The background music score haunts me even until today as
it
successfully depicts the sad, helpless and claustrophobic mood of a
maximum
security prison.
Rich, crisp and vibrant cinematography together with Director Frank
Darabont's vivid imagination and direction style  brought to life one of
the
greatest motion picture ever told! 10/10

******
1 January 2003
10

There are only a few movies that command your attention no matter when you
come across them. This is one of them. If it is on TV and I am scanning the
channels, once I hit this movie I MUST stay till the end. I must have seen
it at lest a dozen times now.Here are some stray thoughts on "Shawshank" It contains the most beautiful narration job (Morgan Freeman) that I have
ever heard. I could listen to it alone with no pictures and it would shine! This movie holds some kind of record for small moments that are HUGELY
memorable. e.g. Andy plays the opera record....beers in the sun....Brooks
and his bird....Billy gets shot....Andy in the rain....Morgan Freeman in the
field finding Andy's "treasure"....the gorgeous Blue Pacific ending....and
there are so many more. There may be some movies made that are as good as this one but I can't
imagine any being better.

******
30 December 2002
10

The Shawshank Redemption is, by far, one of the greatest films of the 90's,
if not of all time. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are perfect as the two
leads in this very moving, human story. With excellent direction (Frank
Darabont), a fantastic story (a short by Stephen King), and a great
supporting cast, this film is a masterpiece.

******
29 December 2002
9

Not long ago, maybe a year or two I was sitting watching the tube when I
heard that that "The Shawshank Redemption" was on that evening.  The first
thing that comes to mind is, (and which I regret very much)  "It's the other
prison movie Stephen King wrote".  I had never seen The Green Mile, but here
in Canada it got loads of publicity, I had mildly heard of The Shawshank
Redemption, but I didn't know it's story, so I tuned in...I was blown away! 
Alot of people on imbd are saying every minute is worth watching you will
love every second and want more and more-that's not true, sometimes you see
so much that you just can't handle another person dying, or being raped,
we're only human.  If you think the whole movie is amazing, you are very
patient.  Sure, the first time you see it you get that impression but the
second time you long to see the ending.  If you only had time to watch a
half an hour or so, the beginning or the ending is the part to tune into. 
The beginning (the first night in jail) is outstanding!  When the man nobody
knows wails the first night he's in the slammer and dies the next day you
are blown away with impressions of the guards and prisoners. And the ending, (when Red is explaining Andy's escape) is outstanding how
smart Andy truely is!  I won't spoil the ending for you if you've seen it
you can assume and recall how amazing and thought provoking it is, and if
you haven't seen it, this leaves an element of surprise.  If The Green Mile
was this good it maybe about time I look in to it.  

******
29 December 2002
9

Shawshank Redemption is a compelling, moving, and beautiful story which is
darkly funny at times. This movie's #2 spot on IMDB is debatable, since it
is essentially a formulaic Hollywood story with Hollywood characters...
i.e.
evil institution (guards) and noble rebels ("some" prisoners) within a
microcosm (prison). Andy Dufresne is so incredibly friggin' smart (for a
banker) that is almost super-hero like. Though this is definitely a worthy
film, in terms of sheer greatness, Shawshank missed Cool Hand Luke by
*this
much*... If you want a really top-of-the-line awesome prison movie, Cool
Hand Luke is the one to see.

******
28 December 2002
10
At first I just want to say that this is and always be the best film ever
until the opposite is proved.
I have only one question after watching it:The scene when Andy gets to Shawshank, Red already telling us (as a
speaker)
"... when Andy wanted Rita Hayworth, I said No problem" (sorry if I´m a
bit
wrong in the quote) W H Y on earth is he doing that? Why does Frank
Darabont
want us to know that before he actually does the scene later in the
movie???Answer anyone??
... but still... Best ever. Got it on DVD as a Christmas present from my
brother after tearing the videotape out through the years. Thanks
Bro!
=Calle= 

******
27 December 2002
10

There are so many facets to this film, both subtle and obvious. You
really
need to see it multiple times to appreciate them all. Several reviews
have
tried to boil this movie down into a few phrases, usually not doing it
justice. This movie is about the growing and intimate friendship of the
two
main characters, and is possibly the best male friendship movie ever
made.If only Steven King would stick to movies like this and Stand By Me,
instead
of the supernatural horror films. His story-telling prowess is
unmatched.Morgan Freeman once again shows his incredible abilities, and this
performance ranks with his great portrayal in Glory! He has an uncanny
knack
for helping you know a character better than it's screentime should
allow.
You just know who Red is in this film, in your heart.HBO's showing several years ago included a couple of cut-out scenes that
were fantastic, and are worth looking for if you like this
movie.


******
26 December 2002
10

Recently on cable television, this classic movie has stirred the hearst of
many.  It is a very compelling film, and it arouses one's emotions to their
zenith.  The casting is perfect, the performances are the penultimate of
theatre, and the result is a must-see drama that belongs in the DVD library
of all serious collectors.

******
23 December 2002
10

No spoilers here.A remarkable Stephen King penned story.  King has often found ways of
getting to wonder about even our most strongly held values.  Most
consider
people in prison as throwaway members of society, and those that guard
the
prisons as public servants. King twists this into the protagonist
prisoner
(Robbins) against the hopelessness of prison and the brutal display of
power
by the warden.  The story is beautifully narrated by Morgan Freeman as
ex-con Red.It lost out to Tom Hanks' portrayal of Forrest Gump for Best Picture,
which
is a shame, but I'll never forget the impact it made on
me.The film has an edge, and a heart.  I couldn't recommend it
enough.

******
20 December 2002
10

This was a movie I wanted to see for some time, and when I finally got to
see it it didn't disappoint me. On the contrary, it was the best movie
I've
ever seen.Very good story. This is a movie I'll watch a lot more... the best
ever!

******
13 December 2002
10

This movie is the best movie around. Tim Robbins plays his character
superbly (is that a word??). Morgan Freeman was an awesome choice for Red.
At first glance, I thought is was a so-so movie. Then I saw it again, and
again. The plot became so intricate; instead of being about Andy and his
trying to find the truth, it became about Red and his own internal
struggle.Anyway, I recommend this movie for anyone who loves movies of any
kind.

******
8 December 2002
10

This is an example that Hollywood CAN do a great movie that doesn't solely
build on special effects.This is also a proof that not all movies need to have more "pace" or
"action". The ingredients in this movie is the interaction between two great
actors, Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, a very good support cast, a superb
story by Stephen King and a professional crew. This "soup" is very tasteful
and gets 10/10 by me.


******
8 December 2002
10

At one time this movie was my faveorite of all time, but then I saw it
repeated 2000 times on Turner's cable networks.  Although the book by
Stephen King is much better than the movie, the message that hope lives
on,
remains.  I have to admit that I never liked Tim Robbins untill I saw this
movie, but I thought he did an excellent job in what is one of the great
movies of the nineties.  

******
7 December 2002
10

This movie was faithful to the excellent Stephen King novella it came
from:"Rita Hayward and the Shawshank Redemption".  In spite of injustice,
corruption, and brutality, prisoners were able to rise above this and form
true friendships.  They were able to put real love into action toward each
other.  When the protagonist, played brilliantly by Tim Robbins, locks
himself in the warden's office and plays an exquisite aria from a Mozart
opera, the whole prison stops and listens.  All are moved by such beauty,
beauty they haven't experienced in a long time, if ever.  It is my
favorite
scene from any movie I have ever seen.

******
6 December 2002
10

First things first...
This is my favorite movie of all time.  Therefore, I was disturbed to see
a
few reviews claiming that this movie isn't all that great.  Having only a
few college credits remaining until I obtain a degree in Critical Film
Analysis, I have studied this film numerous times and can tell you just
why
it is so great.
First off, I read from another review that it was horrible because it was
a
first-time director.  That just happens to be one reason why the film is
so
great to begin with.  The director is passionate about the project since
it
is his first, and Darabont's passion is displayed magnificently in this
film.  The same goes for Kevin Costner (Dances With Wolves) and Sam Mendes
(American Beauty).  Both were first time directors and as a matter of fact
both won Oscars for their Best Picture winning "first timers."The other unlogical argument against this film that I read was about how
"plain" it was.  Heaven forbid that there is no computer enhanced bullets
flying by a body being covered by dozens upon dozens of cameras (The
Matrix)
or some cheesy George Lucas characters that have no bearing on a story.
The
Shawshank Redemption is far from a plain movie though.  The camera work IS
amazing, just look at the scene where Andy is about to be pushed off of
the
roof that the inmates are tarring.  That was pulled off WITHOUT a computer
at all.
Another argument that I heard: The story is too plain.  Well I'm sorry
that
there is no Hans Solo pressing the *fill in the blank* button that will
lift
the *fill in the blank* to stop the *fill in the blank* from attacking the
planet of *fill in the blank* that is inhabited by the *fill in the blank*
race.  The Shawshank Redemption is as real as it gets.  Why introduce
twenty
million characters just for the shear joy of it?  Darabont shows more
emotion with Red and Andy than any other director that I have seen
(possibly
Sam Mendes may be better by a short bit).
Without getting too much further into the film I'll just stop by saying
that
if you haven't seen The Shawshank Redemption there is a reason why it is
#2
on the IMDB top 250 list.  A good movie is enjoyable to watch, but a great
movie will get you lost within the film and open a entire new world that
you
might never experience.  You will lose yourself in the Shawshank
Redemption.
**I also recommend another Stephen King/Frank Darabont film: The Green
Mile.

******
29 November 2002
9

***SPOILERS*** ***SPOILERS***One of my friends raved about this film so I looked it up on IMDB and
there
it was at no 2 in the top 250 movies with over 42000 people giving it 10
out
of 10 so I gave it a try and wished I had watched it years
ago.Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne and Morgan Freeman as Red both give first
class
performances and the friendship that develops between them is heartfelt,
Especially when you feel that two people of completely different social
standings that would not pass the time of day on the outside world bond so
well in the confinements of shawshank prison. There is no facetious acting
and even the scenes where Andy is violated by the `sisters'  there are no
grisly scenes but still the viewer is left in no doubt what took place.
some
people call it bland but to me it adds to the appeal  of the film and
in-keeping with time scale the film was set in.This story appeals on so many levels and I can see why its in the top ten
films in IMDB and the tag line It takes a strong man to save himself, and
a
great man to save another completely captures the film essence and I know
it
will not be 8 years before I watch it again. But having to wait years to
watch it I must qualify for the sadster of the year award
!!9/10


******
28 November 2002
10

CONTAINS SPOILERS
Review by Joe:
`Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption' the original short
novel by legendary author Stephen King, sparked the start of a superb
movie
and ongoing legend.
Andrew Dufresne, a fairly young man committed murder and was sentenced to
life in Shawshank prison.  There are some elements of this film that
differ
from elements of this novel.  And yet many things are the same.In the novel, Andy was a short, partially bald man, who was quiet and
shy,
and in the movie he was a tall intimidating stocky figure.  I think this
difference is important in one particular scene: the prisoners are
tarring
the roof, and Andy overhears Hadley, a man who is angry at the world,
talking about his inheritance from his deceased brother.  Andy speaks up
about the taxes of the inheritance and Hadley gets furious.  I think that
if
in the movie he was the man described in the book, it would have made
this
seem weak, and Hadley probably wouldn't have thought him worthy to even
speak to him.
I think this movie was put together well, but to be honest, I like
Stephen
King's short novel better.Review by Steve:
The movie was very good.  Andy's life in prison was real.  Andy really
got
cheated out of 20 years of his life.  Andy's in jail for something he
didn't
do.
I especially like the scene when the warden was talking to the media.
When
the warden was in front of the building talking it looked like the warden
had a crown on.  Showing that he was a king he had all the
power.
I didn't like the ending of the movie.  It was good for them because it
was
what they both wanted. They both wanted freedom and that's what that
scene
showed.  But they should have had some sort of action, like gone sailing,
fishing, showed them both out to sea doing something.  Being free.  Not
just
on the beach hugging each other.Review by Derek:
I think that the directors should have filmed the movie in Charleston,
Maine because I've spent a lot of time there.  I wish I would have had a
chance to see the whole movie but from what I saw it was a great movie.
I
liked the movie cause it seemed so real.  But what I didn't like was how
the
guards and the warden thought that any one who got in the way or their
business they could kill them or put them in solitary confinement.  Plus
I
didn't like how guards treated inmates like slaves. They couldn't just
face
reality and treat them like equals. But it happens in prisons all over
the
world so that's why I liked Shawshank Redemption.Review by Brad:
I liked the movie compared to the book.  I think that the movie was way
better. The movie seemed to be way more interesting.  It was
complimentary
to Stephen King's ways of writing an intricate portrayal of an actual
event
that took place in Maine.
One of the things I liked about the movie is the way camera angles
portray
power.Review by Dan:
A Review of Shawshank Redemption from an Inmate's View
I found the movie not nearly as enjoyable as Stephen King's `Rita
Hayworth
and the Shawshank Redemption'.  The points I found I did not agree with
are
they have Red's character as a black man in the movie when in the short
story he was a white Irish man but it kinda adds a little laughter to a
serious theme.  Second they have Andy Dufresne as a tall skinny man when
in
`Rita Hayworth.' he's a small and a heavy man with not much of an aura.
Thirdly they have one warden Mr. Norton when there is three in the short
story because it seems to the viewer that 19 years did not go by, but in
a
way its good so the viewer can focus his hate towards one figure. That's
what I didn't like but there are more pros than cons.  The film makers
did
an excellent job with the lighting, the angle of the camera and the
music.
With these three combined it gives the feelings of dread and despair as
black as death.  Freedom as high as a bird and sadness as deep as an
ocean.
With all these in mind it makes a great movie on a scale from 1 to 10 I'd
give it 8 ½.Review by Chris:
This movie was madcool. Some specific parts about this movie that I
thought
were pretty phat was like when the music was played by the Italian lady's
singing and they all looked free.  When later on in the movie the music
is
really fast and strong after he's finished climbing out of the pipe and
really is free.  I also like how Andy never gave up against the sisters
and
then finally Hadley beat the p*** out of Boggs,the guards helped him
because
he helped them that's pretty killer.Madcool-really good, very interesting
Phat-cool interesting, awesome, madcool
Pretty Killer-same

******
26 November 2002
10

An extraordinary testament to the power of hope.  In my view, the most
perfectly  scripted and acted movie ever made. The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that travels full circle from guilt to
retribution to redemption.  In the end, the insolent and obtuse pay the
ultimate  price for their arrogance. 

******
24 November 2002
9

To me, it's the supporting cast and the attention to detail in this time
period movie that make it an outstanding movie.  It's in a class with The
Godfather and A Man For All Seasons.  Outstanding finish after considering
how we viewers suffered through the prisoners' treatment at the hands of
the
guards and administration. 

******
24 November 2002
10

This is one of the best movies ever made.Do you know that feeling, you walk out of the cinema and think your still
in
the movie? dream of it at night, think of it over and over again, discuss
it
with your friends? and if someone asks you; " do you know a good movie? "
and recommend that one as the first?well, this is one of them.So, if you haven't seen this one, go out and see it!!!


******
11 November 2002
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is one of my favorite films. It was filmed in and
around where I live (in Ohio), and I have actually visited the old prison
where they shot much of the movie. I would love to know where they filmed
the scene where Andy buried the letter and money in that countryside. It
looks very familiar.  Anyway, I thought Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were
at their best, and had great chemistry together. The casting, so important
to making a film work, was well done.  Bob Gunton ,as the warden, does a
great job. There is something intriging about escaping from a hopeless
situation and changing your destiny. This is the first Steven King work I
have actually enjoyed. Also, the background music really adds to the overall
enjoyment and quality of the film. I am glad to see it is also considered
one of the greatest films of all times by others.

******
6 November 2002
10

One of the greatest movies of all time!
The back bone of the film is the relationship between the two characters
played by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman(both, great acting) .I like the
way
their friendship is depicted.How it evolves and stuff.Couldn't be more
similar to life!Anyway it is a kickass movie!No-one should regret the time
they spent on this!


******
5 November 2002
10

Its understandable, I guess, to dislike this movie, but how can anyone truly
hate this movie. There is nothing to hate. Anyways, did anyone notice in
this movie that the warden aged a little, but the captain of the
guards(played by Clancy Brown) did not. The story started in 1947 and ended
in 1966. Did anyone notice this?10/10

******
5 November 2002
10

I'd like to remind those few Nay Sayers that have labeled SSR as an
overrated film that it sure wasn't overrated by the Academy in 1994. In
fact, it didn't win a single Oscar! Thanks to IMDB, the public has spoken
-it's truly a People's Choice! Obviously, we each have a right to our
opinion, and I respect (though cannot understand) the opinions of those
that
have expressed dissent about the film. Rather than remain in a quandary
as
to how it could have been elevated to number 2 all-time, perhaps you
should
try watching the film again to see if, by chance, you missed the boat on
it
the first time around. There's no vote-fixing going on here, folks! I
stand
in harmony among those who have been enlightened by this masterpiece and
lend my hand in lifting it to the top.

******
4 November 2002
10

The movie was just brilliant. 
Just the right actors had been 
picked and the movie was just great. 
I recommend sincerely if you 
haven't already seen it.

******
22 October 2002
10

I have seen The Shawshank Redemption after noticing that it was second in
the 250 Top Movies and I must say I have no regrets about this. I can
honestly say that this is one of the best movies ever made and I am glad
to
add it to my collection. If you haven't seen it yet get it and watch it.


******
21 October 2002
10

May be it is the best one from what cinema have used from Stephen King
arts.
It is very unlike what Mr King thinks about the world and the
people.It is very kind movie. Movie of hope and faith.HOPE AND FAITH.It's very important to have such a movie in the world of benefits, wars
and
total angry.MUST-SEE-MOVIE.I envy to folks who never seen this movie before and ready to watch it
for
the first time.Technically it's performed very well, good casting, good directing... Not
good, excellent.No more words, let's watch!

******
20 October 2002
9

An excellent tale about enduring incredibly adversity and eventually
triumphing.  The incomparable Morgan Freeman sets the tone as narrator.
This should not be seen as a "prison" movie, even though it is set in a
prison.  Tim Robbins, as the other major character and the man whose
trials
rival those of Job, is a good everyman.  When this film was nominated for
a
lot of Oscars, Kathie Lee Gifford made a great show of ridiculing its
title
(on "Live with Regis and...").  She hadn't seen the movie and would
probably
be embarrassed to be reminded of the episode.

******
18 October 2002
10

This is a moving picture that will leave you with an experience. There are
still films I need to see, but so far this ranks as without a doubt my
favourite. No other film has provided me with such a tremendous emotional
rush in its last third, or set itself up so well to do so with everything
before it. A fantastic story told by the best of direction, acting and
music. The Greatest. 

******
17 October 2002
10

While "the Godfather" is the current number 1, I have to say that,
although
I love the Godfather, it never gives me the same feeling as "The Shawshank
Redemption".
It gives me goosebumps everytime I see it.
You actually pitty the inmates, even when you know what they
did.
But the best part of the experience is the way the story let's you be Red
and look at the terribly strange new inmate and watch him give everyone a
better life.


******
14 October 2002
10

For me this film is about as close to perfection as I can imagine. Somehow
a
first time director's adaptation of a fairly average and forgotten novella
by a horror writer has turned out to be one of the most beloved movies
ever
made. Watching this film is truly a magical and life affirming experience,
which profoundly affected me after seeing it for the first time. Andy's
journey as he crawls through "a river of s*** and comes out clean on the
other side" as red puts it, has become an inspiration to millions of
people.
The film's central message, that hope can lead us by the hand through the
darkest times in our lives, and give us the courage to go on, is surely
one
of the most eloquent and beautiful sentiments ever delivered through the
media of cinema.
This film has become a modern phenomenon, a cultural benchmark, and has
proved the incredible power that movies still posses.

******
12 October 2002
10

this movie has it all.  it has an exraordinary plot and the storyline
between morgan freeman and tim robbins is one that i have never seen
before.
no movie has a "buddy to buddy" relationship as in this movie.  this
movie
made me cry at the end, although to be honest, it was kidna predictable
how
he would redeem himself.  the ending was also predictiable, but still, why
does a movie not have to be predictable to be great?  being predicatble
makes the viewer happy that the movie is headed in a happy
direction.

******
11 October 2002
10

WARNING:***SPOILERS THROUGHOUT***
DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIEI originally rented this film because I had read it was an escape movie. 
That was all I had really heard about it.  The title didn't seem very
familiar to me, but I thought I would rent it.  I was slightly worried that
I had ruined the ending for myself, but I was worrying for nothing.  From
the very first scene the movie had me.  Morgan Freeman's performance was
PERFECT.  The music was great.  The plot was surprisingly varied and it
pulled me in.  And  of course the escape scene was the most uplifting thing
I've ever seen in a movie anywhere.  The plot is so simple.  A man beats the
system.  It affects anyone who is human.  If you have disregarded my warning
and are reading it without seeing it, don't worry.  I haven't ruined it. 
This is one movie that has to be experienced.  There is absolutely nothing
else I can say.  Those of you have seen it will know what I'm talking about.
 It seems like I'm at a loss for words, and that's true.  Everyone must see
this movie.  If you haven't seen it, stop reading, go out, and rent it or
buy it or borrow it or steal it or download it-just see it.  This is worth
any rental price.  It sounds simplistic to the point of irrevelence.  It
sounds like any other movie.  It sounds boring.  BUT ITS NOT.  It's
beautiful!  It's perfect!  My writing skills are usually much better than
this, but I can't fit this movie into words.  JUST SEE IT. NOW.  "Get busy
living, or get busy dying..."

******
11 October 2002
10

Shawshank Redemption is the greatest prison film ever made, in fact it is
probably the greatest film ever made. Morgan Freeman is absolutely
brilliant
and is mirrored by a surprising Tim Robbins this is a devastating,
heartwarming, riveting cinema at its very best everyone will remember this
film 10/10 and justifiably so.

******
11 October 2002
10

I saw this movie yesterday again. First time I saw it I was 13, and I had
already loved it. The pleasure and sensations felt while watching this
picture are difficult to describe. It had been a long time since I had
last
felt this way about a movie. I was completely submersed in the plot, all
my
mind concentrated in the facts of the movie. One loses connection with
reality and, for some time, one's life disappears and the movie becomes
one's life. This is the sign that indicates us that we are in presence of
a
great masterpiece. The plot is a beautiful story about hope, freedom and
friendship. The cast couldn't be better: both Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman
(one of the greatest actors of all time, when are they going to give him
an
Oscar?) are superb in the leading roles. Supporting cast is great too,
especially veteran James Whitmore. Thomas Newton composed the music, which
perfectly supports the scenes in an extremely subtle, but at the same time
incredibly effective way. It brings sensibility to the images without
using
sentimental tricks. And this is one of the great qualities of the movie:
it's moving and evocative, without ever being sentimental. Sentimental
music
could have ruined the movie, but Thomas Newman made a great job. The
director of photography is Roger Deakins, who has already astonished us
with
the amazing black and white photography of "The man who wasn't there". A
masterpiece.


******
9 October 2002
10

My friend and I have agreed that any man between the ages of 20-40 will
have
one or more of the following as being in their top 3 movies of all time :
Star Wars, Blade Runner, Pulp Fiction and The Shawshank
Redemption.A fantastic source novella, skilful direction, career performances by Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman....the list goes on.The plot can't be summarised easily - suffice to say that there are no car
chases, no gunfights, and no actors from Dawson's Creek.This movie is one of only three I can recall where I specifically noticed
EVERY person leaving the cinema with a HUGE smile on their
face.

******
6 October 2002
9

There is something in each one of us, which nobody can touch, defile or
pollute. That is our sacred place where resides our strength, hopes,
dreams
and character.What this movie amazingly shows us is that it is possible to access our
strength and keep alive our hopes when situations would otherwise defeat
us.I have seen Shawshank 3 times over a span of 8 years. I can't see it again
and again as it hurts...it's so perfect. When I viewed the movie for the
first time, all by myself, it was on a cold winter morning. Who would go
and
see a movie 9 am on a regular working/week day (college, actually)? But
the
international film festival was on in my city and it was the last
screening
of the movie in the festival. So I missed some lectures, rode through the
morning fog, and sat long after the projector was switched off in the
theater to an incredible movie experience. The press and public had given
the Shawshank a standing ovation that day.And I was aching to share it. So saw the movie again, once with my father
and once recently with my husband.Just now when I happened to see the Top movies listed on IMDb and that
Shawshank is listed at no.2, I was hit by the memory of that cold winter
morning.And when I clicked away and read other viewers comments, I noticed how
majority of them remember vividly the how, when and where they had seen
this
film for the first time. For most, like me, it was an unforgettable
thing.Just wanted to applaud the voters at IMDb to give Shawshank the right spot
on all time top movies. I went and registered with the web site right now,
just that I too could add a vote in its favor.9 out of 10!


******
22 September 2002
10

This move is by far one of the best movies of all time. It deserves to be
in
the top 5. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman do an excellent job, I couldn't
pick anyone else to play the role better. Their performance was
outstanding.
I recommend this movie to everyone, if you haven't seen it, you
should.

******
14 September 2002
10

Though Freeman is our times Micheal Caine, his performance in this flick
is
quite sufficient or rather staggering. In Oscar terms, "I would like to
thank...", haden't been disapointing to me. To reavel the plot or
resolution
is to say how "The Mouse Trap" ends. All I can say is see the movie. It
might be a "guy movie" but it is the best drama ever....


******
11 September 2002
10
   ***SPOILERS***    ***SPOILERS***
Imagine me as an old man with a beard sitting on the stoep (porch) waving
my
cane at people passing by."How dare you call the Shawshank Redemption an unorginal prison fairytale!
It is not supposed to be a run of the mill prison movie. Its not supposed
to
be The Birdman of Alcatraz! It's not supposed to be MIDNIGHT EXPRESS! It's
not even supposed to be Stir Crazy, you wippersnappers! The prison is only
the backdrop! It's about overcoming the odds when you are at your rope's
end. This is a movie about hope and finding it in the darkest and
dreariest
of places."This movie could easily have been set in Nazi Germany in opressed
Germany,
in a concentration camp, in a 19th century work house! It's about breaking
free from things that oppress us needlessly! (Spoiler starts here) Andy is
the only person in prison that doesn't belong there! If he had done
something bad he would have accepted it, but he didn't, so he tunnels
through a wall to freedom. (Spoiler ends here)."Sentimentalism can be bad in a movie if handled incorrectly, but Darabont
uses it better than other Capra impersonators out there (even beating the
Coens with their Hudsucker Proxy). And there is nothing wrong with
sentimentality in The Shawshank Redemption. And I can't see what cliches
you
are talking about. Just because good things happen doesn't mean they
cliches."This is a meditative movie. It's also has a lot of little things to enjoy
for repeat viewing. So get off your high-horse and enjoy this
movie."This is all I have to say."Get back onto his chair and blows bubbles out of his pipe.

******
10 September 2002
7

An excellent adaption of Stephen King's novella "Rita Hayworth and the
Shawshank Redemption".Morgan Freeman is outstanding and his narrative is very lulling and makes
the film all the more compelling.Tim Robbins, too, gives a fantastic performance - and the supporting cast
(particularly Bob Gunton as the sadistic warden; he also appeared in the
King adaption "Dolores Claiborne" (1995)) give fine performances,
too.Despite being riddled with prison cliches, this movie is
great.And remember: FEAR CAN KEEP YOU PRISONER, HOPE CAN SET YOU
FREE.

******
1 September 2002
10

You do not need to know about the plot or the characters or the actors,
know
only this:Shawshank redemption is an amazing film. You must watch this, you will not
regret it.

******
30 August 2002
10

oh,this is really a very good one i've ever seen.Hope is a good thing,
maybe
the best of things, and no good thing ever dies.remember?from the movie,u
can get that.if u never see it,go ahead now,or u will regret,i am sure.but
to my disappoint,it doesn't get any awards.
and when the old man left the prison,he found he was not able to touch the
world,really hard for him to do that,and in the end he rather die.it truely
shows many prisoner's feelings.i was deeply moved.
and this is the one shows the humanity,u should watch it!


******
26 August 2002
10

To really appreciate this one, you cannot simply watch it once and put it
back on the shelf. Instead, the first time you should watch it for
enjoyment, the second time to really get the raw sensation. Every time
after
that is just the biggest thrill.The first time I watched this movie, I fell in love with it. But, it wasn't
until the second time that I really appreciated it for all it's subtle
overtones. Only then does reality slap you in the face and give you the
wake-up call you've been needing.It is the type of film that allows you to try on someone else's shoe. You
are exposed to a way of life which most of us will never understand and end
up experiencing a really heart-felt moral joyride.And to top it all off, you have Morgan Freeman in his most powerful role
yet.

******
26 August 2002
9

Though the prison system in the US may have changed by now under extreme
"political correctness", but still "seeing" is believing. Twenty years are
a
long time, and the odds are against any one that plots an escape: the
longer
the time, the less believable an escape is. Perhaps the too neatly arranged
escape hurt this movie's credibility, still the movie succeeded in being an
entertaining window into a morbid world which may be too dark for the
outside to see.  If I agree with one thing in this movie, it is "Never give
up hope", as Andy states it.

******
26 August 2002
10

Great movie, I don't know how I missed it. Nothing was out of place,
whoever
casted the movie did an excellent job.It instantly became one of my top
5's.
I will watch it again(I don't usually watch twice, at least right away).
I'm
glad I bought the DVD -can't say that about all movies.


******
20 August 2002
10

The Shawshank Redemption is my favorite movie of all time.  Tim Robbins
and
Morgan Freeman are handing out the best performances of there life in this
film.  Its about how a banker named Andy Dufrense (Tim Robbins) goes
through
prison.  And along the way becomes best friends with Red(Freeman).  This
story is all about hope and friendship.  This films has several very
moving
scenes.  From the rooftop scene to the ending (the best ending ever).  And
the movie kinda has 4 endings.  (4 best endings ever).  Should have taken
home best picture, original score, screenplay (Frank Darabont), and
cinamitography oscars.  But was over looked by forrest gump (which is
good,
but not better then shawshank) and pulp fiction (still yet to see).  "Hope
is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies"...
thats damn right.10/10   A+   

******
13 August 2002
10

I will not rehash the plot outline as many other reviewers have done a
fine
job of presenting it. Note, however, that this is not an action/adventure
film. It is not fast-paced. It is grueling and harsh in part. But it
evolves
into a moving story of the triumph of indomitable human spirit over
crushing
adversity."The Shawshank Redemption" packs an intense and unforgettable emotional
wallop. Thanks to a perfect blend of cinematography, acting, soundtrack,
and
plot development, the film takes the viewer on an unforgettable emotional
roller coaster ride. It masterfully elicits powerful emotions running the
gamut from the lowest lows to the highest highs.I read a great number of other IMDb members' excellent comments on this
film. I think it is safe to say that those of us who rate "Shawshank"
among
our favorite movies share one view in common --we truly FELT the impact of
this film.Some who disliked the film have argued that certain aspects of the plot
are
unrealistic. I must note that I thoroughly enjoyed the plot itself.
Nonetheless, is every element of the story realistic?  It really doesn't
matter.This is not a purely plot-driven vehicle. This is far more than a "life in
prison" film. The prison serves as the framework in an ongoing struggle
between hope and hopelessness under the most adverse circumstances. The
beauty of "Shawshank" is the way it excels in evoking a great range of
human
emotions while presenting a fulfilling and moving tale of resilient human
spirit.Whether viewed as "true to life" or a parable, "Shawshank" succeeds in
making us really care about the main characters. It is unsurpassed in
making
the viewer feel the full emotional impact of events as they unfold. It
excels in making us feel fine gradations of despair and hope, cruelty and
kindness, hatred and friendship, sadness and joy.Along with the excellence of the film as a whole, I consider a certain
scene
among the most intense, fulfilling  and memorable moments I have
experienced
in cinema. (I won't discuss it for the benefit of those who have not yet
seen the film.)"The Shawshank Redemption" is a true masterpiece of film making. It is
unsurpassed in evoking a full range of intense human emotions as it
proceeds
to an unforgettable conclusion. It fully deserves its place  as one of the
all-time greats in film history.

******
12 August 2002
10

I think the hungarian title of this movie is more apposite: Prisoners of
hope or Slaves of hope (A remény rabjai). It sounds beautiful in
hungarian.This movie created a genre that can't be defined. The story is
about hope, "a good thing" as Andy Dufrense calls it. "Maybe the best of
things".And that's the point. Hope dies last. Every decent man should
appreciate this movie. 

******
12 August 2002
9

shawshank was one of the first videos i ever purchased.  this film has it
all; great character development; poignant humor; heart-in-throat drama.
this was the first time frank darabount directed a stephen king story - the
second time was The Green Mile.  needless to say, the darabount-king hookup
provides strong filmmaking for the theater-goer.a must see.

******
11 August 2002
10

Shawshank Redemption, a true heart warming epic has sat in my heart among
my
favorites. Tim Robbins has given the performance of his life, even after
watching the movie again and again, i cant stop thinking what he did, how
patient and intelligent the guy was that even his closest friend morgan
freeman cant think of what he can do or what he did. The strong dialogues
and the delivery makes an unstoppable emotional attachement between the
characters and audience. If you havent seen it, dont blame me why you are
missing it. 

******
10 August 2002
10

I am what you might call a movie fanatic.  I have literally seen thousands
of movies.  I have a movie collection of over 1000 different movies.  When
asked, "what's my favorite movie?", I can think of a favorite movie in a
category, a favorite movie by a particular actor, a favorite movie in a
particular year, a favorite style of movie, and a favorite in practically
anything else you can think of.  However, there is only one movie that I
felt it necessary to sign up for IMDb, there is only one movie that still
sends chills up and down my spine when I watch it, there is only one movie
that stands out among the rest, there is only one movie that leads the
pack
over the thousands of movies I watched in the last 9 or ten years, and
there
is only one movie that I can truly say is my favorite, number one movie of
all time, and that movie is Shawshank Redemption.  This is my first review
and when you look up the top voted lists on IMDb and you see Shawshank
Redemption in the top 3, you will know that I, too, was mesmerized by this
movie.  The only movie, in my opinion, that was ever worthy of a
10.
Phillip

******
9 August 2002
9

The Shawshank Redemption is a superb motion picture. The story is great. I
love movies like this where you root for the underdog, in this case
wrongfully convicted Andy Dufresne, skillfully played by Tim Robbins. The
cunning of Dufresne is amazing, and the movie throws in a nice moral lesson
on the importance of friendship. Also the directing and cinematography are
great.  Everyone should see this. bye.

******
6 August 2002
10

A Masterpiece! This film possesses such beauty; the story line is amazing,
the music 'rhymes' perfectly with the film en the acting performances are
outstanding. There are few great films but in this case I have nothing but
praise. The best film I have ever seen.

******
31 July 2002
10

The Shawshank Redemption, I first viewed this film when i was maybe 8 or 9
and i didn't really understand then.  When i saw it later in life my
appreciation for the film grew and constantly does every time i view it.  It
is the first large film from Frank Darabont and he directs with such feeling
it doesn't strike as a beginning for his career but, more as it was done by
a professional at the art of film making.  The Shawshank Redemption is a story of courage, friendship and confinement
in the setting of a large prison in New England, Shawshank.  Andy Dufresne
is a gifted banker who is convicted of murdering his wife because she was
cheating on him with a golfer.  He is sentenced to two life sentences to be
served at the Shawshank Prison.  Andy arrives, and is judged by his suit as
a rich man who will crack on the first night, Andy does the contrary.  He
ends up showing his strength in silence, he doesn't make attempts to make
friends until one day when he needs an item.  Ellis Redding, he's the man in
this particular prison who knows how to get things and does so for people
willing to pay the extra 10% on the item.  Andy introduces himself in the
yard and asks for an item 'Red' isn't anxious to get it for him at first,
but gives in at the end.  I wont reveal any more of the film for the reason that, you have to
experience it yourself.  All that i can convey across this review is be
prepared to be affected in ways you never imagined.  I would go as far to
praise it as one of the most powerfully affecting stories ever conveyed
through film.  Don't presuppose anything just because it was overlooked at
the Academy Awards, Superb acting, directing, cinematography and story
telling will magnetize you.9/10 "Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever
dies"

******
29 July 2002
10

"The Shawshank Redemption", like "Lord of the Rings", is an exemplary film.
There is absolutely nothing wrong with it. The actors all do a fine job,
from Morgan Freeman to Tim Robbins. The plot is outstanding, probably
because it used one of Stephen King's best novels as a screenwrite. And the
setting, well what can you say? Shows prison from a whole new standpoint. As
of now, this film is tied with "Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the
Ring" for the best movie I have ever had the pleasure of viewing.


******
24 July 2002
10

Best prison movie since The Great Escape.  One of the most satisfying
climaxes of any movie ever made.  Morgan Freeman should have won the Oscar
for best actor.  Relative unknown Bob Gunton (one of those actors you see,
but you never know his name) is also brilliantly despicable as Warden
Samuel
Norton.  Like many classics, despite its modest box office appeal,
Shawshank
will grow in stature through the years and will be recognized as an all
time
great.

******
22 July 2002
10

watch it twice, thrice or how many ever times, the shawshank redemption is
one movie that you can never call boring, especially for the way it has
dealed with abstract terms like humanity and hope. the movie does have its
flaws such as Red being the only guy who's hair has greyed after 33 yrs in
prison. but then, when you watch such a great movie, these flaws are easily
to be forgotten.what is to be remembered is the victory of the human
spirit.

******
21 July 2002
9

This very sophisticated and beautifully storytelling, the way a great movie
is supposed to be.When I saw the trailers and clips from this movie when it was first
released, I thought to myself; "Yeah right, another self-conscious
Oscar-nominated prison dirge with it's heart fastened firmly to it's
sleeve".  I expected it to be another "worthy" movie like CHATTAHOOCHEE or
the usual 80s telemovie types.  It wasn't until I sat down and watched the
tv release that i really got involved with the story.I particularly like the way the story has heart and feelings, but is not
sappy or pretentious.  There is humour, pathos, tragedy, and irony in equal
measure.  So if you're like me and usually don't like ponderous prison
dramas, I reckon you should see this movie anyway, and you should  find that
it's surprizingly refreshing storytelling.

******
20 July 2002
10

I've never imagined movie with such great depth, this one moved
me!I think this must be some serious piece of film making in a long
time.
At some point of the film, I even felt like I'm a part of the movie. (I
laughed with Andy and his pals at their lunch when they are talking about
a
'new fish'. Wait a minute, I'm a prisoner!?)So when you're in the midst of hopelessness, this would be your life
jacket.Cheers! (At the rooftop)

******
18 July 2002
10

This is without a doubt, the best film of the 90's.  Morgan Freeman is
brilliant as Red, his story is just as compelling as Andy Dufrense's.  Only
repeated viewings made me realise this.  Another oscar tragedy that Forrest
Gump won best picture over this, typical USA USA carry on.  This story also
proves Stephen King as a wonderfull writer and not just a one-dimensional
horror novelist.  So heartwarming, great humour particularly from the head
prison guard and the best, most bitter sweet revenge in any film I can think
of.  A no questions asked 10/10.

******
18 July 2002
10

I watched Shawshank right after it's release on VHS and was completely
overtaken by it. I went out and bought the video as soon as I could and to
this day it remains the gem of my collection. It is simply the greatest
movie ever made. No matter how many times I watch this film, it seems to
get
even better than the last. There isn't a single flaw anywhere in this
movie!
The greatest aspect though is Morgan Freemans narration. Nobody should go
without seeing this movie at least once. 

******
17 July 2002
10

I cannot believe this movie came out in 1994 and I just saw it for the
first
time today. I have been missing out! This is my new favorite movie of all
time. If you haven't seen this movie yet,you MUST see it. It's Morgan
Freeman's best work ever and he should have gotten an oscar for it. I have
never liked Tim Robbins,but his performance deserved an oscar also.


******
16 July 2002
10

This has to be my favourite film from a Steven King novel and one of my
all
time top ten.  The story is fantastically told and the acting brilliant-a
real credit to one of the best stories for a long time.  I wont spoil the
storyline for anyone who wasn't watched it but suffice to say you will not
be disappointed.

******
15 July 2002
10

This is why people watch movies.  To escape from everyday life and sit
completely absorbed in someone else's story.  And what a wonderful story
it
is.  On the outside it looks to be a sap of movie, the kind of movie that
shamelessly wants to jerk some tears.  But it bold enough to break free
from
the prison of other formula films.  The cliches are all there and in
familiar places but on a higher level and they are warm and welcome.  This
is the kind of movie that I will finish watching and feel the need to
rewind
it and play it again.  This is truly one for the ages.

******
15 July 2002
10

Now, when i first was getting ready to watch this movie i didnt think it
would be very good. But when i saw it i knew i was wrong. I think this is
the best movie ever made. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins were perfect
together. I have never seen a better on screen team!! YOU HAVE TO SEE THIS
MOVIE!!

******
5 July 2002
10

I never got the chance to see this when it was in the theaters.  I bought
this DVD when I saw it on sale at a music store, keeping in mind its place
in the imdb top 250.  Now that I have the DVD, I've seen it a number of
times, each time not being my last.As to whether this movie "should have" won the Oscar for best picture, my
opinion is not firm on that.  In many ways I really do wish TSR had won, but
I do love both movies (Forrest Gump, and this one) each in their own right. 
They are two entirely different movies, each well done, and moving for their
own reasons.In "The Shawshank Redemption", Tim Robbins gives a breathtaking performance
as Andy Dufresne, a man who is in the wrong place at the wrong time, leading
to his wrongful conviction of the death of his wife and her lover.  He gets
two life sentences, back to back, to be served at the Shawshank
prison.It is there that he meets Red (Morgan Freeman), an inmate who has been at
Shawshank for much longer and has establish status as "a man who can get
things".  Through his friendship with Red, and his experience as a banker,
he gains the respect of the corrupt prison guards, and the other inmates,
and manages to be rid of the abuse he was enduring at the hands of two
"sisters".  He also works very hard to build the best prison library in the
country, and help illiterate men get their high school
diploma.My favorite scene is the one where everyone stopped what they were doing and
stood transfixed as they listened to the beautiful sounds of a Mozart opera.
 It never fails to bring tears to my eyes.  I also like the "Beer on the
Roof" scene, but the Mozart segment is the one that will always be among my
favorites.

******
23 June 2002
10

The Shawshank Redemption was ,is and will always be the best movie ever.
It
has everything, drama, comedy, action, suspense,  adventure, great ending,
and it kept getting better and better. It also has saddness, too. But more
happiness. I will say it again, The Shawshank Redemption was the best
movie,
is the best movie, and always will be the best movie EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!


******
22 June 2002
10

The first time I watched this movie, I thought to myself this could easily
be one of my all time favorites.  The second time I watched it I knew it
was
my all time favorite.  This movie is about building relationships and
getting a second chance.  The acting is superb and gave me a whole new
outlook on Morgan Freeman as an actor.  His naration of the movie is
excellent.  

******
22 June 2002
10

*Spoilers*I would have to come up with a new set of words to describe how incredible
and amazing this movie is.  Tim Robbins gives the world his best
performance
ever.  Along with Morgan Freeman.  Instead of 7 oscar nominations and
losses, it should have had 5 Oscar wins and 8 nominations.  It should have
won Best Picture, Best Director, Best Screenplay, best original score, and
best cinematography.  I would have given both Tom Hanks and Tim Robbins
best
actor for this one.  Forrest gump is a great movie, maybe tom hanks had a
better performance, but Shawshank is such a better movie with a better
script.  The movie contains quotes you can use to describe life.  "Get busy
livin, get busy dieing."  "Fear can hold you prisoner, hope can set you
free."  This movie goes by quickly.  Very little times where you glance at
your watch.  And the scene where Andy escapes and climbs through
everything,
and stips and stands in the river of crap letting the rain wash away his
sins and giving him his freedom which he deserves is the greatest movie
moments of all time.  By far deserves the second best movie of all time.11/10

******
18 June 2002
10

Great characters.  Beautifully filmed.  Moving...sad, yet beautiful and top
shelf story telling.  There has to be enough accolades to warrant viewing
this here so I won't blather on about what a great flick this was except to
say it was.  Watch it and if you don't agree on it's placement...you must
be...unbelievable.

******
18 June 2002
10

What made this movie so great, was not the actors or the story, it was the
narration by Morgan Freeman. His way of story telling really brought the
story to life, along with great acting and a truly remarkable story by
King.

******
16 June 2002
10

This is my favorite movie of all time. But it is only for certain kinds of
movie watchers. For people who only want to see action and certain female
upper body parts this film is not for you. Ask any real movie watcher,
they
will all say that this is a great movie.

******
14 June 2002
10

Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give us some of the most memorable
performances of all times.  In this wonderful adaptation of S. Kings short
story, the human spirit and hope triumph over injustice and "the system".
It will make you think.  No doubt this will go down as one of the best
dramatic movies of all times.  I can't say too much or I will spoil
it.


******
3 June 2002
10

This is my favorite movie of all time and I have viewed it many times.  It
is the only movie that produced quotes which I use in my life.  This movie
flows from beginning to end, the characters are perfectly cast, and the
story line is impeccable.  Can you imagine anyone other than Morgan Freeman
doing the narration for this movie?  Anyone else as Andy Dufresne?  Get busy
living or get busy dying..Damm Right!  This movie has one of the best final
scenes ever filmed.

******
2 June 2002
10

to me this is the greatest movie of all time...!IT has every thing a movie
watcher could ask for.it's not too long it's not too short,it keeps you
guessing,and the ending you wouldn't have guessed in a 1000 years.morgan
freeman and tim robbins are absolutely wicked,MORGAN FREEMAN is one of best
actors in the movies today...!

******
1 June 2002
10

This is easily the best movie of the '90s.  Or maybe one of the best movies
of the '90s.  Stephen King's sure does show us that he can make awesome
books besides horrors.  He also made The Green Mile.  Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman are excellent in this excellent movie.  they both should've won
Academy Awards for this one.  Definitely.  I love this movie.  I must have
saw this movie about 20 times.  It is as great as the critics say it is. 
The direction for this is amazing.Overall the whole movie is great and I am surprised that Stephen King made
such a good novel.  I've made my mind for the best movie of the '90s. 
Rating 11 out of 10. (Best Movie of the '90s)

******
1 June 2002
10

I have never ever felt the feelings i felt watching the masterpiece of a
movie, its really manages to play hard on the watchers emotions, I think I
was feeling happy , then sad then angry and in the end a sense of
justice...This film is probably the best film I have ever seen/felt it does the job 
10-10

******
29 May 2002
10

i dont know what to see about this movie that hasn't already been said. as
good as movie as forrest gump was, the only major award it should have won
over shawshank was tom hanks as best actor. an argument can be made for
zemeckis for director, but seeing as shawshank redemption is such a better
movie, and most of the movie takes place in location, (shawshank prison) i
think darabont is robbed not only for not winning the oscar, but not even
scoring a nomination. and seeing as he would be the best director, i would
think that if you're directed your film best it would logically be the best
picture. tim robbins is also robbed of a nomination, and i think hanks just
edges him for that trophy. the biggest travesty of all is that shawshank
doesn't even win any of the oscars it was nominated for. if you havent seen
this film recently, go pop it in the dvd or vcr and just sit back and revel
in its magnificence.

******
25 May 2002
10

Is The Shawshank Redemption the second best movie of all time?  No, it
isn't.  However, I contributed to its ranking by giving it a 10/10 vote. 
Yes, IMDB's Top 250 list is flawed in the sense that some of the greatest
films ever made inspire some of the most violently negative reactions in a
sizable contingent of the collective movie-viewing public (thereby rendering
them ineligible for the highest overall voting average).  The Shawshank
Redemption, however, clearly did not evoke many negative reactions- should
the film be faulted for that?Absolutely not, I say.  This is a grand movie that strikes one fundamentally
real and basic existential chord, namely the abstraction of faith and hope
within the context of the tremendous pain and frustration humanity inflicts
upon itself.  Faith does not have to be of a religious nature, and The
Shawshank Redemption doesn't go there (this is why I love it, but abhor The
Green Mile).  Rather, the faith of Shawshank is a stubborn, earthly, human
faith, that despite the arbitrary injustice of existence, the individual can
persevere and affirm within himself or herself that yes, life is worth
living.  For my money, that is solid return on two hours of my
time.I am a cynic and a misanthrope, supremely so on both counts.  That said, I
acknowledge that I have no choice but to accept the context of my existence
for what it is, and I can either "get busy living or get busy dying." 
Apparently, most people agree on some level.


******
20 May 2002
8

Simply one of the FINEST movies ever produced by Hollywood. Great in all
aspects - acting, story line, cinematography and dialogue!Dont miss this in your life time!I rate it 4 over 5

******
13 May 2002
6

Apparently no one realizes that this film is a roman a clef for the Beer
Hall Putsch of 1923.  Yet the lighting and camera angles on the Andy
Dufresne character resemble not so much a neo-German expressionism as
minimalist/realist approach filtered through the homoeroticism of Oscar
Wilde.  The internecine conflict within Shawshank itself was analogous to
the contradictions inherent in the Weimar Republic, and the cinema verite
quality with which the shower scenes were depicted definitely allude to the
dramatic proportions of The Rape of Lucrece (although the filmmakers took
some license in their liberal use of domestic ferrets in those
scenes).
The ultimate cinematic meaning of redemption derives not so much from the
allegorical representation of patriarchic subjugation and the meaningless
sex it inspires, but from Dufresne's triumphant final crawl through the
metaphysical "tunnel of love" to consummate his desire for
freedom.
Six years later this film was remade as "Slackers" and although the setting
and characters are somewhat different, the existentialist struggle for
justice and inner peace still resonate clearly.

******
12 May 2002
10

This movie is quite simply one of the greatest of all time.  I have never
felt for characters in a movie like I have in this one.  It would have won
the Academy Award for best picture if it weren't for Forrest Gump.  I love
that movie too, however, I think Shawshank is a more enduring movie.  It's
tale is more about the human spirit, and overcoming probably one of the most
difficult situations anyone could ever face.

******
8 May 2002
10

This is the best movie of all time!!!  It has all you need and more.
Amazing performances by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins.  This movie is a
CLASSIC and will stand the test of time.  The story has everything but it
clearly presents the true ideas of friendship and relationships between
people, especially under the worst situations.  Anyone who hasnt seen this
movie- DONT WALK_ RUN- to see it!  It will stick with you
forever

******
30 April 2002
10

One of the best movies I've seen, and one of only a few I am willing to
watch more than once. The kids have even watched it more than me. The
pacing
is slow but constant and the tone it sets pulls you in from the start.

******
29 April 2002
10

I've watched this movie for many times. Each time I'm moved. Although the
director is not the best, the actors are not the best, the story is the
best
story that I've ever known, at the end, it leads to the best movie I've
ever
seen.
I'm a movie fun, and quite famous among my classmates. One day they came to
me and said to me:" Hey, you've watched so many movies, which one is mostly
worth watching?", I answered:" You get the right person, Shawshank
Redemption.""What? Never heart." Then they took the Video from me. One hour
later they came back."Are you kidding? It's so boring, that we even
couldn't
get though of it. I smiled," I've only one advice, watch it over, please."
Hours passed..., when they came back to again, you can imagine the
expression on their faces. "wonderful...",just one word, they could give to
me.
Hope and freedom are the mean subject of this film. They are so beautiful,
that anybody can be moved, no limit of countries, no limit of races. It's
the treasure of whole humankind. "Hope the most beautiful thing in the
world. It's deeply in your mind, only one thing really belongs to you, no
one can touch it..."
How I hope it's a true story...
It's best story I've ever known, it's the best movie I've ever
seen.

******
29 April 2002
10

This film is destined to become a true classic. This masterpiece of
filmmaking is worthy of its place on the Top 250 and should be #1. The
film
gives time to its characters and time to the story unlike other films. We
see the world through the characters and feel as they do. Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman give outstanding performances well worthy of an Academy
Award. The ending is the greatest of any film and is so because of the
time
given to the characters and story. The score captivates the feeling of the
film and gives the feel of Andy and Red's true redemption. This is a must
have in any collection and deserves all the allure it has been given.


******
17 April 2002
10
   ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***
When I saw the movie for the first time I was a child of 8 years old I
guess. I was completely obsessed by this movie. The movie took too much
time
so my parents didn't allow me to see the end of the movie. I was mad as
you
can understand ;) Now Im a boy of 16 years old and I saw the movie 8
times.
Im a bit of a movie freak, if I have the time for it I watch one every
evening. I have seen a lot of movies. But not such good as The Shawshank
Redemption. This movie is a perfection. It has a perfect story. The movie
is
very long, but I have never bored while I was watching. The sound and
music
are also perfect. When Brooks leaves the prison and sees the daylife again
the music is totally perfect. You are going to think about some things you
have done in your life. That's the same when Andy escapes and arranges the
beers for his friends. Red says about Andy when you him sitting in the sun
(when he has arranged the beers) with a little smile on his face: 'I think
he did it to feel normal again'. That are lines when you start thinking.
And
when Red is allowed to leave prison you got a kind of a winner feeling.
Then
he sees Andy again, that's the perfect end. This movie was not a simple
prison breakout. But a movie with the best story I have ever seen. I can
say
to everyone that you have to see the movie. Im sure you will think the
same
way as I do. When you see it multiple times you will understand the movie
better and better, and I hope you will love then as much as I
do!

******
14 April 2002
10

This is the one and only film that even though it is over two hours, I
wanted to watch it again, the second it finished. No other film has ever
bought up such emotions from me. I will stand by this as The Greatest Film
of all time proudly.

******
13 April 2002
10

when stephan king asked frank darabont to go behind the prison walls once
again, it was a second match made in heaven (the green mile).  these are
two
of stephan king's best novel's brought to screen with darabont's master
script writing.  why are they the best?  because they are actually
believable and extraordinary tales which don't involve fantasy, magic or
gothic horror.  

******
8 April 2002
10
When I first watched "The Shawshank Redeption", I thought it was a O-K
movie. Something in the characters and the motion picture score would draw
me back to see the movie again. Now, it is one of my all-time favorite
movies. It is a classic. The story, adapted from a Steven King novel,
stays
true to the book. To me, there is something intriguing about a person
changing his destiny, especially against all hope. The casting of the key
players in the movie are right on target, and Morgan Freeman and Tim
Robbins
work very well together. So, when you get a great script, talented actors
cast properly, and a movie score that captures the mood and drama of the
scene, it makes for a memorable movie.

******
2 April 2002
10

This film is without a doubt, one of the all time classics. It has
everything - drama, comedy, suspense. Watching this film leaves you with a
good feeling - it makes you realise that true friendship is hard to find
but
something to really cherish.  The story of Andy & Red (The 2 main
characters), and how they go about living in the prison is moving, gritty
and very realistic. I recommend this film to everyone, young and old, it
will appeal to everyone.  Its a brilliant film capped by a brilliant
ending.
10/10

******
2 April 2002
10

Never have i seen a movie so well directed
the script was genius....one of the best movies ive ever seen.....10/10
eaisly!!!  Morgan freeman and tim robbins made this movie work....if
forest
gump came out a year later this movie would have swept the
oscars.

******
2 April 2002
10

What else is there to say about this movie?  Every single element is great
from the direction all the way down to the score, which accents every
moment
fantastically.  And then there's the acting, which I cannot praise enough
for everyone's excellent portrayal.  There is not a single moment in the
movie which I felt an element to be untrue to how the characters would
actually be all the way to the extras which is an extremely rare
achievement.  But the thing that makes this so great is that for some
reason
it never seems to get old no matter how much I watch it, in fact, it even
gets better and better because I realize how much of a gem this really is.
If you are one of the few not to have viewed this, please do yourself a
favor and watch one of the most incredible movies of our
time.

******
1 April 2002
10

There are many movies that will leave me wanting more. This movie was one of
them. It is about a man, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins),who is sentenced to
prison for life, for the murder of his wife and her lover. He then meets
another inmate who is sentenced for life as well, Ellis Redding (Morgan
Freeman). Ellis, who has been there for about 30 years , befriends Andy and
tells him about the way of life in the Shawshank Prison. I believe the
choice of actors was superb. I think the movie would have gotten out of hand
if Tim Robbins wasn't cast for the part of the soft-spoken Andy. There were
parts in the movie that would have been completely ridiculous and impossible
if he didn't take them and create a surrealism around it. As for Morgan
Freeman, what can I say. His narraration was informative . He was also
perfect for the role if Ellis. During the whole duration of the movie I
couldn't find one part that he hesitated or he looked as if his emotions
weren't for real. The plot is simply outstanding and the movie has a very
clever and witty end. It is amazing how Frank Darabont was able to piece
this movie together and create such a perfect end to a perfect movie. RATING
***** out of ****

******
1 April 2002
6

You know what would have made this movie a whole lot better? It's if at the end, when Red (Morgan Freeman) made his final long,windy speech to the parole board, he had been rejected onceagain, and the movie ended right there?  Maybe then I'd considerthe average rating (9.0) and rank (#2) on the IMDb top 250 list to bewell deserved. 

******
31 March 2002
10

Having seen such a movie again and again, you subconsciencly begin to look
for flaws or errors that will somehow lift it off its pedestal, just so you
can put your already tiresome mind at ease and not give it another thought.
But with this movie, im still looking, so i'm beginning to got used to the
fact that this movie will, and more than likely, always be jumping to the
top of my mind whenever i try and define 'what a movie CAN
be'.It's already a classic....

******
30 March 2002
10

Frank Darabont's film based on Steven King's story is absolutely
inspirational. Great performances all round and it keeps the viewer attached
throughout. The Shawshank Redemption is quite long, yet you don't notice it,
instead you notice the genius that has gone into this film's creation. See
this film, no matter what your movie preference.

******
30 March 2002
10

This movie is absolutely the best movie I've ever seen. I can't help but
sit
down through this whole movie and not get up once even though I've seen it
over and over again. Every part of the movie I'm saying to myself "I can't
get up now, this is my favorite part". Although, my two favorite parts are
the beer scene and the end of the movie. If you haven't seen this movie
yet,
go out and buy it. Don't rent it, you won't take it back!


******
25 March 2002
10

Simply - the best movie of all times.  Great performances from Tim Robbins
and Morgan Freeman.  Delivers all emotions through a great story -
laughter,
sadness, joy, anger.  Really shows the range of Stephen King.  See it once
and you'll want to see it again and again.

******
24 March 2002
10

There is nothing that i can say that has not already been said in a very
positive way about this movie.I simply loved it.I do wish however that a
"Special Edition" DVD of Shawshank would be released that would include
the
1 hour TV feature of all the actors making comments on it.The current dvd
does not have enough included for a great movie of its
stature.
This movie will certainly become a classic.Watching this movie
actually makes me feel proud to be human.It re-affirms my belief in
mankind.Now if only every president,prime minister and leader would watch
it
and get the same feeling from it as i did......geez....maybe they would
WAKE
UP and realize that "Life Is To Short"....Get Busy Living or Get Busy
Dying!!

******
21 March 2002
10

Many people seem confused why this movie is rated so high by so many.  I
am
confused how you can walk away from this movie and not think that is one
of
the greatest movies you have seen.  I am more baffled some people gave it
a
"1" rating.  To each his own I suppose.  For those who don't understand
what
makes this movie so great I will explain.*SPOILERS*
Probably the number one thing about this movie is the acting.  Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins play the most believable and likeable characters
ever.  The movie is like a good hit of ecstacy.  It builds up for so long
that you really come to like Andy and hate the warden.  Then before the
end
he escapes, the warden throws the rock through the wall, the warden kills
himself, and finally they are on a beach in Mexico.  All the special
effects
on earth couldn't give me a rush like the end of this movie.  It just
creates this moving emotional feeling inside and you feel as vindicated as
you know Andy and Red must feel.Of course there are many other great moments in the middle of the movie.
For example, when they get to drink the beer and when the guy passes the
test.  I could go on for hours about this movie so I'll stop
now.

******
21 March 2002
10

I never expected to have a movie about prison be among my ten favorite
movies of all time, but The Shawshank Redemption stands in that category. 
This, however, is no ordinary prison movie.  It is a movie that cuts to the
core of the human psyche and exposes the ideas of hope, strength, and
survival all within the character of Andy Dufresne.I recently finished reading the short story "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Remption" on which this movie is based.  While the story is a great one and
Stephen King is an exceptionally talented writer, I believe that this film
manages to take a small morsel of a story and stretch its meaning and
characters out into a fully engrossing film that will reach the viewer on
all levels.  Tim Robbins does an excellent job as the complex Andy Dufresne
and shows the range of emotions that Andy comes to feel during his sentence
within his actions and expressions.  While the character of Red is a white
Irishman in the story, the movie chooses to make him black and cast Morgan
Freeman.  This was a wise choice and Freeman brings his immense talent to
the character on screen, displaying Red's cunning nature and raw emotion. 
All of the other major characters are given more life in the movie than the
book, and work well together to create the prison atmosphere of Shawshank. 
While reading the book, I kept expecting to read about one of my favorite
scenes in the movie, where Andy locks the warden's office door and plays the
uplifting opera music for all of the inmates.  This is an excellent addition
that made the movie even more effective.  The twist ending where Andy gives
the warden his "just desserts" in the movie is more satisfying than when it
is omitted in the book.So there are people out there who call this movie overrated.  Maybe it is. 
It does tend to pull at your emotions in various ways throughout its
runtime.  And it manages to touch many different sensitive issues that
people hold dear.  But it has such a strong message and so many effective
scenes that you can't help but enjoy it.  This movie made me, a naive high
school student upon my first viewing, take a deeper look at life, the impact
of hope, and the effects of prison.  Forrest Gump is an excellent movie, but
I don't understand why the Academy chose to reward it instead of The
Shawshank Redemption.Call it overrated if you like, but it's still one of my
favorites.10/10

******
21 March 2002
10

Since everyone has already covered the bases, and don't feel like retyping
all the same acclaims, I will simply say this touching, powerful film is
single handedly one of the GREATEST FILMS EVER of the 20th Century!!!  If
you haven't already seen it for the wonderful acting, wonderful plot or
wonderful directing, see it for Morgan Freeman's stupendous performance
alongside some other class actors!  This is one of his best works, which
says a lot :o)

******
21 March 2002
10

Shawshank is an absolutely amazing film.  Its concept is not especially
compelling; you might even call it plain, but oh, the execution!  Certainly
this is how to make a movie.I saw Shawshank in the cinema, which is always good, but not necessary for
a
film where the plot and filmatic skill are what draw you in.  When I left,
I
noticed that everyone was sniffling.  The film is so beautiful that even
the
tough people cried.  I don't mean that it's a tearjerker either, it doesn't
make you cry out of sadness or pull cheap stunts to get the tears flowing.
Well, perhaps sadness has something to do with it, but it's a deeper kind
of
sadness, one that's got tears of joy in it too, not "how could they kill
the
dog?" sadness.  And while it makes people cry, they're glad they saw it.
It's not even my kind of movie, but there's no way I can give it less than
a
10.Notice that this movie is loved by all kinds of viewers.  From the people
who aren't so articulate to the movie snobs, this film hits home on a level
that none other I know of does.

******
20 March 2002
10

This film is the best one-off ever made. From watching the Green Mile and
from what I heard about the Majestic, it seems that Frank Darabont will
never make a movie as good as this again. It is emotional, ambitious, and
breathtaking in equal measure. The last 30 minutes are the best on
celluloid.

******
20 March 2002
10

Like few movies do, the shawshank redemption capture that feel and
atmosphere of a good movie. I find myself watching this movie over and
over.
It does a good job of wowing you whilst shocking you. Do yourself a huge
favor and watch this movie!

******
8 March 2002
10

No you're not hallucinating, this film is underrated! How is it underrated?
According to dumb users on IMDB "Lord of the rings: fellowship of the ring"
is better! It starts off with Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) a banker in his car with a
gun. His wife is sleeping with another man. Next scene is Andy defending
himself but he gets life in jail at the end of the scene. Andy makes friends
with Red (Morgan Freeman, also narrator). Andy is someone who really hopes
to get out but Red is afraid of getting to used to living behind
bars.It turns out to be one of the best films ever. People who haven't seen it
say "Its just a jail film" Its not! When they end up watching it they find
out its not just a jail film. Another thing its unpredictable which is what
you expect when you see a film.Nobody cannot like this film! I could go on forever about the reasons why
this film is so good, just watch it. 10 out of 10

******
5 March 2002
10

'The Shawshank Redemption' is quite simply the best film ever to be
produced. in no way, shape or form could it be improved in any way. there
is
absolutely nothing to fault about it. it is brilliantly written and the
acting is second to none, Morgan Freeman is currently the second best
actor
in the world.
The whole story is masterfully told with a severe twist in the tale that
will leave even the most heartless of people feeling
happy.
Anyone who has not seen this film, must see it. for me, it deserves the
accolade, 'A Spanking Piece Of Cinematography'.I love the shawshank redemtion and anyone involved with
it.

******
4 March 2002
10

On reading the comments of others left on the page i was surprised. I
would
rate this as worthy of being 3rd in the top 250. The film may not be an
action packed ride from start to finish as you may expect a jail break to
be, but this is because it is not what the film is meant to be about. If
you
have read Kings original short story you will see that the adaptation of
this film does it justice, as so many attempts of making films from his
books have not, with the exception of stanly kubrick's adaptation of the
shining. The acting by tim robbins and morgan freeman only adds to the
prominence of this film in expressing the adversity that was suffered by
prisoners back in the 40's. 

******
21 February 2002
9

This film should not be(as many else films)in top 3 of the 250 best films
ever made.First I want to say something about the acting, that is one of the
things that makes this one so good.Morgan Freeman is fantastic and so is Tim
Robbins(both of them are very good actors even if Freeman is better).The
script is also fantastic and the whole complex of the film is
brilliant.It´s a film that might will bring you to tears, even if it in the end goes
to far and everything becomes silly.I mean it could they could have cut out
the last fifteen minutes but it´s still a frightening film.The message in
the film are that you will survive as long as you have
hope.4,5/5

******
20 February 2002
9

This is one of the best movies I have come across. The acting of Tim Robbins
is excellent but it is Morgan Freeman as Red who steals the show with a
breathtaking performance. The story continually kept me interested and Tim
Robbins' struggle against nearly every inmate in shawshank. Its possibly
only his great friendship with Red that keeps him sane.It was also strange to see one of the sisters in the movie who continually
try to rape Tim Robbins, played marine hard man Drake in "Aliens", which is
also one of my all time favourites.Great movie. Rating 9/10.

******
20 February 2002
10

If you were to look at a plot synopsis for this movie, there is little
chance that you would be interested in it. However having watched it on
recommendation from a friend, I was staggered at how good this movie is. I
don't know what it was, but something grabbed hold of me and made me
appreciate this movie. Tim Robbins is excellent as Andy Dufresne and he
never won an Academy Award is beyond me.After all the cliched buddy-buddy movies made in the 80's, it's nice to be
able to sit down and watch a tale of genuine and lasting
friendship.

******
19 February 2002
10

If you haven't seen it yet, this picture will reaffirm hope in life,
humanity and the movies.  Morgan Freeman proves himself as one of the best
actors of our time.  Tim Robbins has a humble, underplayed style that fits
well in the picture.  Probably one of the best scripts ever
written.

******
18 February 2002
10

This is one of the best pictures ever made. The acting, directing,
screenplay...are so wonderful! But, for the Academy, the best picture of
1994
was...Forrest Gump (!!!!!!!!!!!!). This movie must have win the oscar for
Best
Picture, Director, Adapted screenplay and direction of photography (at
least).
You will never forget this movie. Go to see it, now!

******
17 February 2002
10

This film is one that I consider under-appreciated. It captures the essence
of human nature, in every one of its 142 minutes. Fear, humanity, love,
anger and courage are just a few emotions and traits shown on film in this
masterpiece. In the IMDB top250 films, it comes third behind Lord of The
Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring and The Godfather. While good films in
their own league, they don't compare to the magnificence of The Shawshank
Redemption. 'Shawshank' is set in America in the 1950s-70s. It tells the story of Andy
Dufresne, who is sent to Shawshank Prison for a double murder, that of his
wife and her lover. The film shows us the relationships he develops with
fellow prisoners, especially of that with Red, real name Ellis Boyd
Redding.
Tim Robbins' gentle, yet powerful portrayal of Andy touches the heart of the
viewer and makes him likeable. Morgan Freeman should have won the Oscar for
which he was nominated for portraying Red, the man who 'can get things'. He
is a charming character that makes you want to see this film at least once
more, and many of his lines stick in the memory. For instance, when Andy
tells Red he wants him to get Rite Hayworth for him, Red tells him he'll try
his best. Andy is still unsure, until 'I don't have her down my pants right
now, Andy, but I'll get her for you!'
If you have never seen 'The Shawshank Redemption', go down to the nearest
video shop and rent it. No, don't rent it, BUY it. It'll be the best few
quid you ever spend on entertainment. 
Stacy_G_   

******
14 February 2002
9
Having just seen this wonderful movie, the question I ask myself is
this: why in the world did I wait so long?? Based on a memorable short
story by Stephen King, 'Shawshank' is a quietly brilliant parable about
hope and perseverance and, yes--as stated in the title--'redemption.'
Tim Robbins gives a beautifully understated performance as Andy
Dufresne, a well-to-do banker sentenced to two double life terms in
prison for a murder he did not commit. At first quiet and
introspective, Andy slowly emerges as silently headstrong, resourceful,
and filled with a sense of humanity that transforms not only himself,
but his fellow inmates as well. Most effected by Andy's presence is his
prison friend and ally, 'Red' Redding (played with a superb weathered
dignity by Morgan Freeman), who acts not only as the narrator and Greek
chorus in the film, but also as the collective conscience of the
inmates themselves. Although the 'Mean Warden' might seem a stock
character in prison films, Bob Gunton gives the role a new benchmark,
oozing evil with every tight-lipped glare and succinctly uttered
syllable. Having read the story by King several years ago, I knew the
outcome, but, watching the movie, it was no less wonderful and
gratifying when it arrived. The 'double ending' of this film--that is
to say, what becomes of Andy and Red in turn--leaves the audience
trembling with satisfaction and pleasure: redemption only comes with
honesty; hope is eternal; and music (be it Mozart or Hank Williams) is
magic. For those who have not yet seen it, 'The Shawshank Redemption'
is a 'must see'--for those who saw it years ago, take another visit.
And then, during the closing credits over Thomas Newman's lovely score,
do what I did--applaud.

******
14 February 2002
10
   ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***
I was twelve when I first saw this movie in 1998. I was flipping through
the
channels on my TV when I was first introduced to the character of Andy
Dufresne. I watched with amazement and was fully absorbed by the
happenings
and events that took place. When a commercial break came on, I was
impatient
for it to end so I could find out what would be next.
The beginning of the movie has Andy being imprisoned for the murder of his
wife and her lover. He says he didn't do it. And I believed he did, until
the plot twister changed my whole perspective. Red is the man narrorating,
and to me, is the main character about how is life is changed around over
the twenty years he knows Andy. And if it's anything that made me cry, it
was at the end where Red is finally free.
This film started my compassion for movies with meaning behind them, and
if
you view this picture, be ready for a new look on life.In other words, DON'T pass this movie by. Enjoy!

******
13 February 2002
10

Great movie, I have seen this movie almost 100 times, and i guess i can
see
it another 1000 times more.it leaves a such a great effect on me, which is hard to explain in words.
Just Love it!:) 

******
11 February 2002
10

It is certainly the best prison movie. It's definitely the best outing for
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. It's certainly the best movie of the
90's.If you haven't seen it - buy it for your collection today!

******
11 February 2002
10

This is an excellent movie. I usually get depressed watching prison
movies.
Even though the pace of the movie was slow, it is so well made that it
keeps
your interest alive all the time. The narrative style also added to the
relaxed pace. I am sure anybody who watched the movie would come out
feeling
good about life. The message is pretty clear - even though the obstacles
in
life seem to be daunting and often impossible to overcome, with hope,
will-power and dedication, everything is achievable. Tim Robinson and
Morgan
Freeman were simply great and played their roles to perfection. I also
liked
the concept of institutionalization - after a while some people would
rather
want to be in prison than be faced with a whole new world which has
changed
so much from what they were used to.

******
8 February 2002
10

This is easily the best film of 1994 and by not winning a single Oscar of
its 7 nominations it proves this is a very underrated film.  Tim Robbins,
Morgan Freeman, and James Whitmore deliver exquisite performances that
scream Oscar in this period piece from Frank Darabont.  One of the best
movies of all-time. 10 out of 10.

******
6 February 2002
10

This is probably the best movie of all times!
It is certainly my favorite movie ever. Tim Robbins does an outstanding
job
here! I don't think there is another movie that captures the triupmh of
the
human spirit. It is certainly inspirational.
Andy Dufresne is the perfect example of perseverence and
faith.
Excellent movie!

******
4 February 2002
10

Great movie, great actors.Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman really blows your mind in this motion picture.Andy & Reds partnership is well worth while. Andy is - as promised, full of
surprises and saves his best for last. 

******
2 February 2002
10

I've heard alot of people say this movie is overrated, but none of them
seem
to remember to give a comparison.  If this movie is undeserving of its
status as one of the best movies ever, then what movie is better?  I'd
really like someone to supply an alternative so I could rip their choice
apart and show them exactly why it's not as good.    

******
28 January 2002
8

Tim Robbins gives the performance of a lifetime as Andy, a man wrongly
accused of killing his wife and her lover.  He is an unconventional prisoner
who forms a friendship with Red, played brilliantly by one of the greatest
actors of his generation, Morgan Freeman.To give away any more of the story is a crime, because this is an incredible
movie that needs to be seen by everyone.  I give "The Shawshank Redemption"
a 10 out of 10.

******
27 January 2002
10

A film is only as good as the after effect that it leaves on you.
Shawshank
leaves you with a warm glow of fulfilness, which in my opinion is matched
only by The Usual Suspects. Tim Robbins, gives a once in a life time
performance, as the silver spoon banker wrongly thrown into prison.The plot is second to none... which is one of the reasons this film is
loved by so many. The simple but involving story grabs you, so as you feel
almost at one with the prisoners, only to then reveal the clever twist at
the end. At which you realise how you never were a part, but only a pawn
in
this masterpiece.

******
27 January 2002
10

**** SPOILERS HEREIN**** proceed at own risk!!!!!it is simply no wonder that shawshank redemption is as insanely popular as
it is. the movie is the greatest flag-bearer for hope and the
determination.
i have been wanting to see this movie for a long time and recently caught
it
on television as part of a stephen king horror special
series!!!!the movie begins at quite a slow pace and after about half an hour i was
wondering why this movie was so highly rated. but slowly the movie
unravels
and soon i was totally caught up in its brilliance. sometimes harsh,
sometimes serene, sometimes wishful, sometimes dreadful. the intensity of
the despondence at shawshank prison is almost tangible.tim robbins and morgan freeman are outstanding in their roles. each
character is brilliantly etched and is a delight to watch. the screenplay
is
the highlight of the movie and there is always a feeling of something
larger
lurking behind the damp grey walls of shawshank.for those who have seen the movie, an interesting point would be that the
name of stephen king's novella is "rita hayworth & the shawshank
redemption". well well!!the movie though has to be watched. it is an experience every human should
go through. it takes the light at the end of the tunnel to the next
plane.an elevating 10!!

******
15 January 2002
10
The Shawshank Redemption, is one of those films, that stays in your mind
long after the credits role off the screen. It is nothing short of a
Masterpiece, adopted from a story written by Stephen King, Entitled "Rita
Hayworth and The Shawshank Redemption". The story takes place in the
1940's,
in New England, and opens with the murder Trial of Andy Dufresne (Tim
Robins), who is being tried over the murder of his wife and her lover.
Andy
is sentenced to life imprisonment, over a crime which he maintains he did
not commit.It is here, confined within the grey stone walls of the Prison, that he
meets "Red", played superbly by Morgan Freeman. Red and Andy become the
most
unlikely of friends, and over the years their friendship
grows.
Andy shows Red that there is always hope, even in the bleakest of
circumstances, and Hope is what will set you free.The Shawshank Redemption is remarkable in every aspect. The storyline is
fantastic, and the director pays a lot of attention to every part of it.
The
prison cellar shots are extremely realistic, even though they are built on
a
giant set. The acting is supurb, from the lead characters to the
supporting
cast. All in All, this film is nothing short of Brilliant, and will go
down
as the greatest film i have ever seen. 10/10


******
14 January 2002
10

I just can't find a single flaw with this movie.  It's so perfect.  The
acting is fantastic, the character development is superb, the plot
and script is incredible.  I bought the DVD and never get tired of
watching it.  This movie truly belongs among the greats, such as
The Godfather, Citizen Kane, and Schindler's List, and this is the
only movie I would place above the others in this elite group. 
There is no single element that makes it such a fantastic movie;
the combination of every aspect of the movie being executed
perfectly makes it great.  A true masterpiece.

******
14 January 2002
10

Shawshank is a movie which somehow trancends the whole of its parts. In
all
respects, this is a movie that has no right to work as well as it does.
There are so many opertunities where a director and a cast of lesser
instincts could have delved into schmatlz, yet the ensemble remains
steadfast as the story unwinds. Make no mistake, this an uplifting tale
which uses the ubiquitous happy "Hollywood" ending. Not only does it take
place in the forties, it also seems that the movie itself was a product of
the studio era of Hollywood cinema, with a plot and pathos that would have
worked in the best of Capra's films.
Shawshank, as a result, requires us to check the most "nintees" of all
mindsets in the process, cynicsm. Shawshank is all about faith in the
human
spirit and freedom, and how both are impossible to lose as long as you
beleive in yourself -- Not exactly a bromide for present day society. That
this movie remains popular is evidence that we still thirst for
Capra-esque
movies that shy away from cynicsm.Shawshank , unlike most modern films, wears no self-aggrandizing snear. It
proudly wears earnestness and faith, while other movies try to mock such
feelings. Is Shawshank the most intelligent movie around? No, certainly
not.
Is it the most philosphically groundbreaking? Not at all. Will it change
the
face of movies? I don't see it as likely. Instead Shawshank is a timeless
piece  whose story will leave it's mark on those who approach it with an
open mind. It won't change your life, but it will make you walk higher,
look
farther, and hope harder that such a story can exist is a world where so
few
tales of redemption come without a snear. 

******
12 January 2002
10

This is the best movie ever made - trust me.It's certainly my favourite.Amazing acting, from amazing actors, with an amazing story with an amazing
ending. Beyond words, I'm afraid. Go and hire it. No, buy it, because you
will want to watch it again and again and again.If you liked The Green Mile, you'll love this. If you've never seen the
Green Mile, you'll still love it.Go, buy it. Take my car. Are you still reading? Go...-->Chris<--


******
10 January 2002
10

The Shawshank Redemption is a great piece of storytelling,which moves at a
slow pace but is a rewarding experience. Tim Robbins plays Andy Defresne,
a
gifted accountant who is wrongfully imprisoned for the murder of his wife
and her lover. The story focuses on all of Andy's struggles during his
time
at Shawshank, but is told by Red(Freeman)who forms a close friendship with
Andy. Robbins gives what many consider to be the best performance of his
career, while Freeman shines in a role that earned him a well deserved
Oscar
nomination. I would consider Shawshank to be one of, if not the greatest
film i have ever seen. Why in the blue hell the academy gave the best
picture award to Forest Gump baffles me to this day. Don't get me wrong,
Gump was a good film but when you look at all the polls concerning the
greatest film of all time more often then not Shawshank will be in the top
two or three, while Gump will be nowhere in sight. Gump may have got the
Oscar, but Shawshank's the film everyone will be talking about for years
to
come.

******
5 January 2002
10

No long summary here.   It's about two guys in prison, that probably don't
belong there, that have lots of time to reflect on life.  You will like
them.  The characters are deep.  They will remind you of real people.  You
will feel richer as a person after seeing this movie.  It's inspirational,
philosophical, yet doesn't preach.  Beautifully filmed, acted, and
directed.
It doesn't get much better than this.     

******
3 January 2002
8

Haven't seen this for a couple years, guess I should give it a try again.
It was enjoyable and clever at turns, but a little formulaic.  I was also
very bothered by the lack of racism portrayed in the film.  Racism is a
very
bad thing, but it was also so very pervasive in the 1930's that portraying
it as basically nonexistent is tantamount to historical revisionism.  That
left a bad taste in my mouth.

******
3 January 2002
10

In life we are all challenged with gross injustices.  To some it may be
being passed over for a promotion, or to others it may be something as
trivial as being served the wrong plate at a restaurant.  How we deal with
those injustices shape our lives or end our lives.  In Shawshank we see
how
one man is dealt with one of the largest injustices known to man, and
accepts the injustice.  He never asks for sympathy, for he believes in a
way
he deserves his fate.  However, when the new world that he enters deals
him
a new hand of unfairness, our man once again accepts the misdeeds that are
dealt him.  The irony of the story is the only illegal thing that our man
Andy does is what sets him free and redeems his life.


******
2 January 2002
10

Probably the best Stephen King film adaption ever, but you don't have to
be
a King fan to enjoy this awesome movie. The plot centers around the
(wrongful?) incarceration of Maine banker Andy Dufresne(excellently
portrayed by Tim Robbins) after being convicted for the murders of his
wife
and her lover. However, the film (AND story....read it) go beyond that and
detail the cruel, corrupt inner workings of the prison, the emotional and
mental state of the inmate, and the conflict of inner bars versus outer
ones. The supporting cast is also uncommonly good, led by heavyweight
character-actor Morgan Freeman as the veteran con "get-it-guy" Red. With
moments of brutality, beauty, humor, and an unexpected twist, The
Shawshank
Redemption is easily one of the best films in recent cinematic history.


******
25 December 2001
9

Shawshank Redemption is a great film.
This is one of the best dramas ever made, and probably Morgan Freeman's
best
film.  One of the reasons why it was so good is the voice-over in the film.
Morgan Freeman has a superb reading voice and works well as a
narrator.
I think the best scene is when Andy plays the opera music and all the
prisoners look up to the speakers as if it is a God or idol.  It shows a
glimpse of freedom in the eyes of the prisoners.
Also the story-line was excellent, but I dont think that it was explained
clear enough what happened in the beginning.
But it still is one of the best films made.


******
23 December 2001
10

"hope is a good thing. maybe the best of things. and no good thing ever
dies."with a line like that, how can it not be good?
King is a genius of writing. Darabont is a genius of directing.
dream team.

******
21 December 2001
10

Movies are all made for a purpose, most of those purposes are to make money
- heck if they dont make money they cant make a movie, but some movies go
beyond just trying to make a buck and really stand out as one of the best
in
their genres.This is one of those movies. 

******
20 December 2001
10

This is one of my favorite movies of all time.  The story is exciting,
intriguing, and believable.  That acting is some of the best I have ever
seen and you really feel involved with characters.  It really makes you
think and is highly entertaining.  Morgan Freeman is one of my favorite
actors and his performance is once again mesmerizing.  Its one of those
movies you don't mind seeing over and over again.  I loved
it.

******
17 December 2001
10

I realize it every time I see this movie... This is the best movie I have
ever seen! It's just great! I mean, the story is strong and so are the
actors. The music fits perfectly in the movie and it's one of the most
clever movies I've seen.
After seeing this movie for the first time in '96 I thought WOW! I went to
rent it and watched it again. It got my attention that it was based on a
novel. So I ordered the novel. It's my favorite book now. I must have read
it more then ten times. After that I saw the other stories were filmed
too.
So I went to rent them too. They are very good too, but The Shawshank
Redemption is the best.
5 Years later I'm one of Stephen King's and Tim Robbins' biggest fans in
the
world.
Everybody who hasn't seen it yet: take my advise and watch it. You'll
share
my opinion: it's the best movie you'll ever see.
Now it's finally available on DVD in Holland too, so I can watch it with
hopefully lots of extras...

******
13 December 2001
10

This is the greatest movie of all time.  It is based on a Stephen King
novella.  He is the best author there is.  This movie stars Morgan Freeman.
One of the best actors there is.  This is a highly emotional masterpiece.
It draws you and and does not let go until it wants to.  A great date
movie.
A great anything movie.  See it. 

******
13 December 2001
10

This movie was an apparent outcast at the theaters because I never even
remember ever hearing about it.  However, thanks to TNT and TBS this movie
has become my favorite movie of all time!! It's moving and entertaining.
It
captures your attention and is intriguing enough to keep you focused.
WOW,
what an awe-inspiring masterpiece!

******
11 December 2001
10

Wow, this film was really something! I'm glad I started to watch all the top
films of imdb.com's "All time Top 250 Movies" list. Sure, The Godfather
triology and Seven Samurai were great movies too, but they were way too long
and I felt they rather gave me pain in the buttocks than a touch in my mind.
This movie, on the other hand, has this distinguished feature; you don't
want it to end. I haven't felt that way since I watched the Matrix at the
cinema back in its old glory days (that goes for both the movie The Matrix
and cinemas, they're out of date nowadays :)). It also made very clear to me
that I never want to go to an american prison, just as little as I would
like to go to a turkish prison...

******
5 December 2001
9

I read a review once that said "If you are not even feeling slightly
uplifted by the end of this movie, you are made of stone." I couldn't have
said it better. Some scenes may not sit well with the easily disturbed, but
there you are.Go see it. 9/10.

******
29 November 2001
9

One of the best films of its type, only bettered by Frank Darabont's other
period prison drama based on a Stephen King story "The Green Mile". Mr
Darabont and Mr King appear to have hit on the perfect partnership, in
making fantastic films based in prisons and set in days gone by. Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins are both excellent in this movie, although Mr
Freeman is always excellent (especially in his high school drama "Lean on
me"). Well done to all concerned in this excellent production, and let's
hope that Mr Darabont and Mr King continue in this successful vein for the
future

******
27 November 2001
10

I've been hearing a lot of positivt things about this movie for a long time,
and finally I had the opportunity to watch it myself.My expectations were high, but to be honest I didn't expect it to be this
good! This film is just excellent, and I warmly recommend it to
everyone!

******
26 November 2001
10

as with many others i first saw this film on video and after watching it i
was stunned by what is a very simple story told in such a way that at the
end of the film i knew i had watched a cinematic masterpiece. the
performances of robbins and freeman are excellent but i believe all the cast
make this film what it is. a modern classic 

******
17 November 2001
10

this is the best film that I have seen
it is breathtaking 
the plot is excelent 
and the ending is magnificent


******
14 November 2001
10

I had resisted the temptation to see this movie for quite a while, even
though it was recommended to me by many friends, and I was quite impressed
by the high rating on IMDB. However, I have finally seen the movie now,
and
I can only say that I am very impressed.I can only say that this movie is as flawless as any movie can be. It is
amazing to me how a movie with barely any action can grip you like this
one
just through the story, the acting and the excellent character
development.
The characters are extremely real and believable, and it is easy to
identify
with Tim Robbins' character.Tim Robbins was actually the biggest surprise for me in this movie, and
this
is by far the best performance I have seen of him. However, it seems that
his acting style matches the material very well. Andy Dufresne (Tim
Robbins)
should not be someone who is overly emotional, and this seems to be the
perfect character for Tim Robbins.However, the most moving performance in the movie came from James
Whitmore.
I will not spoil the movie by going into details, but even though his
character's story is only a subplot, it is one of the strongest points of
the whole movie, and his performance is absolutely memorable.Still, with all the great performances, the star of this movie is its
story.
It is the story of someone who is objectively innocent when he goes to
jail,
and who loses a large part of his life in jail, but when he comes out of
the
jail, he is still a better person, because he has found his true self. The
story proves that a person does not have to be guilty of a crime in the
first place to find redemption, but that redemption can happen on many
different levels.


******
9 November 2001
10

CONTAINS SPOILERS
"The Shawshank Redemption" is a film about banker Andy Dufrense(Tim
Robbins) who is framed and sent to a maximum security prison for the murder
of his wife and her lover.He befriends Red Redding(Morgan Freeman), who is
the only guilty man in Shawshank, the prison.  Through a few brutal years,
Andy finally manages to get through.  He helps prisoners graduate high
school, opens a prison library, and works on the taxes for the crooked
warden(Bob Gunton). Little does anybody know what his secret is, an escape.Based on a short story by Stephen King from 'Different Seasons', this is
the best film about the triumph of the human spirit.  Frank Daranbot
delivers a top notch drama.  This film also features an excellent musical
score by Thomas Newman.  Morgan Freeman delivers,in my opinion, his best
role.  Though a little cruel at some points, this film will make you want
to
see it again.  One of the three best films of the 1990s.  Second on my all
time list.

******
6 November 2001
10

This I have to say was one of my favorite movies of all time. I didn't see
it until 1998 though. I had heard about it, but never actually had seen it.
But when I did, I went out and bought it on video. I've always liked Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins has become a favorite of mine too.
For some reason I like prison movies. It's just the suspense that really
gets me. Movies like Escape From Alcatraz, The Green Mile, Instinct, and The
Last Castle are among my favorites. To anyone who has not yet seen this
movie, go rent it tonight, you will not be disappointed!

******
6 November 2001
9

Like "Pearl Harbor," (AAAHHH!) this film had comedy despite the fact that it
was a drama. For example, when Andy is ordered to turn off music that is
annoying to the Warden (but not to the rest of the prison... they just
listen), Andy turns it up!But, unlike "Pearl Harbor" (AAAHHH!), this film actually needed a bit of
GOOD laughter, whereas "PH" (AAAHHH!) was laughable in itself, with
unneccesary BAD comedy.Anyway, I read the novella first and let me tell you, the film (edited-I
watched on TNT) has many differences and add-ons. For example, that bit of
comedy wasn't in the book (heck, NO comedy was in the book). Also, (spoiler)
when Andy has disappeared, the Warden didn't throw his hand-carved chess
pieces at the poster-he tore it down. Also, the novella wasn't 100 pages,
whereas this movie (on TNT, with commercials and edits) was 3 hours
whole!I am STILL deciding on where to put this better-than-most-films-these-days
movie on Favorites list. I am tempted to put it near the top (not at the
top-there are better films), but somewhere online someone said that it was a
middle-movie (an okay one). Another person declined, but after watching
again, they agreed. So, I'll put it somewhere in the middle.I liked it very much, but it's not my favorite movie ever, nor the second.
Rather... ah, heck, I can't decide right now!Rating: 4.5/6

******
3 November 2001
10

I have a rather small film collection, but "The Shawshank Redemption" is
one
of the movies that is a part of it.  This film is done beautifully, from
the
soundtrack to the acting.  I'm no film critic, so I'll leave the in-depth
reviews to those who are more capable, but I will say that if you haven't
seen this film, make the trip to the video store.I give it a 10.

******
2 November 2001
10

I have never been impressed so much by any movie like I have been by " the
shawshank redemption " This movie flows like a river. The further you get
in
the story the more it captures you emotionally and before you know it you
are one with it. The story is about triumph of human spirit.
Amazing..........WOW.I proudly own a DVD copy of this movie and sure will be watching with my
grand children. Although lot of people are are amazed that this movie
didn't
win an oscar, all I will say is this movie deserved beyond Oscar. An Oscar
would have tried to imply that this movie is in class with the others,
which
it is not.

******
31 October 2001
10

I realize that my screen name might belie my opinion of the film, but I
have
seen it several times and still find it difficult to forget.  The
Shawshank
Redemption is the finest film I have ever seen, and I would recommend it
to
anyone over the age of 13.While there are some scenes that warrant an R rating, they are done
professionally and are used to tell a story--not to simply shock the
viewer.
The plot is deep and twisting, but is not difficult to understand on a
basic level.What makes Shawshank better than most films, however, is the use of
several
sub plots (often metaphors) to enhance the tale of Banker Andy Dufresne
and
Ellis "Red" Redding (Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, respectively).  Both
do
the finest work of their careers, in my opinion, in this
film.Even more amazing is the cinematogrophy.  Director Frank Darabont made his
debut with Shawshank, and captures old Mansfield Penitentiary wonderfully.
I can't say that I enjoy watching any movie more than this one.


******
27 October 2001
10

This film says everything about the world we live in today, but most
importantly give us a sense of hope in our future existence. As a film
which
basic plot, if considered could of so easily been a flop at the box
office.
Shawshank turns out to be a movie of the ages, through it stunning
cinematography, editing and directing, in no way forgetting its remarkable
ensemble crowned in my opinion by the astronomically well realised
narration
of Morgan Freeman. Tim Robbin execution of Andy not only boasts an inate
sense of naturalism that Stanislavski himself would be proud of but
characterisation that conveys all emotion that encycles the movie. I short
a
movie of a generation and of the ages. A must see for any true fan of
cinema.

******
26 October 2001
10

I think I have seen this movie five times. Last week I decided to watch it
again and after deciding to do so, I was afraid that it wouldn't live up to
my well known expectations. What a mistake.The story, the acting, the music, the message, etc. : everything was even
more stunning than I'd hoped it to be. Huge waves of emotions. Simply
incredible. Nothing less.This is a film that touches everyone that is lucky enough to take the time
to watch it. This is a film about the struggle that life can be sometimes.
We all run in into trouble sooner or later and this film is a healer that
gives you new hope. O, and don't forget to take notice the double moral
that
we all know so well from those very 'religious' people.Sorry for sounding a little hyper, but this film deserves
it.Check it out!

******
25 October 2001
10

I've always loved this film. Today I got to see the top 250 of IMDB for the
first time and couldn't believe my eyes. There it is, numero duo, number
two! But it is there for a reason. This movie is a work of art (that's rare
nowadays). The prison environment, the relaxing sound of Morgan Freeman as
a
story teller and the atmosphere are a combination that makes you almost
part
of the film. I just can't find the right words to describe the film, but it
is still a piece of art. For those who still haven't seen this film:
Enjoy.

******
18 October 2001
10

Absolutely, totally, unbelievably wonderful. It blew me away the first time
I saw it in March 1995, and it still blows me away six years and countless
viewings later. I simply never tire of it. It starts out as one type of
movie and gradually turns into another, and both are equally compelling.
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are beyond praise. In fact, the entire cast
is superb, with special kudos to James Whitmore, Bob Gunton, William
Sadler,
and Clancy Brown. I can't wait to see it again and again and...

******
13 October 2001
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movies ever, and the best
performance Morgan Freeman has delievered. I must say that Morgan Freeman
has to be one of the best actors of all-time. He is an intelligent actor who
does intelligent movies like Glory, Se7en, Unforgiven and Driving Miss
Daisy. Tim Robbins also delievered an excellent performance. He played Andy
Dufresne, a city banker who is wrongfully accused of killing his wife and
her lover. He is recieved a double life sentence for the crime, and is sent
to Shawshank prison in 1947. Andy forms a friendship with the man who knows
how to get things around there, Red, played by Morgan Freeman. I won't tell
anymore about the movie, but i will say at how amazed i was at this film. It
was so well done. This is a must see. It is worth every penny of your money
when you rent this film, if you do. When you see this movie, also, you will
know why i say it it Morgan Freeman's best performance to
date.I give it ***** out of ***** stars.

******
10 October 2001
10

In my opinion, the best film ever made.  This film is totally plot driven,
and is totally unique in story-line.  The directing and cinematography are
astounding, with aerial views of Shawshank prison. One example of this is
when Andy plays "Duettino-Sull 'Aria" from "The Marriage of Figaro".  The
camera flies up into the sky like a bird, while all the inmates look up at
the speaker.  Truly an amazing film.  WATCH IT!!!!!  

******
5 October 2001
10

I was stunned when I saw The Shawshank redemption for the first time. Now,
more than almost 20 times later, I still can't believe the Academy awards
jury, how could they not think this the best movie of all times. So
moving,
so genial, so breathtaking, just great!
The first time I saw the movie I 'didn't really intend to watch it, but as
it came out, I couldn't stop watching. You really feel for Andy, you
really
get involved. And than the ending. Who could have thought.....

******
30 September 2001
10

When I look at the IMDB Top 250 list, I am generally dismayed by both the
films that are missing and those that should not be there. However, I am
delighted to see The Shawshank Redemption right up at number 2. This movie
is absolutely superb, far surpassing the story on which it was based. The
plot is brilliant, and once again it shows Morgan Freeman to be one of the
greatest actors of all time; it amazes me that he has been given so few
awards.When Tim Robbins was interviewed, he called this a "love story", and that is
exactly what it is - a story of a wonderful (and completely non-sexual) love
between two men, a love that is born in an incredible hell-hole and helps to
raise them out of it.
It's the sort of movie you can watch over and over again and never get tired
of it.

******
25 September 2001
10

When this movie first cam eout, I didn't know much about it, my mother, who
had seen it, had mentioned something about it being "very good" amd a
"prison movie."
   I managed to catch it abotu a year later on the Movie Channel, I have to
tell you, I sat in awed silence for the next two hours.   Shawshank Redemption isn't just a movie about a bunch of guys in a
prison, it's a movie about hope, friendship, and "coming through clean in
the end."
   The film is slightly over two hours long, and involving an amazing cast
of well acted characters, amazing aerial shots, a wonderful score of music,
and inspiration, and the ability to find strength in yourself, that maybe
you didnt' know was there.
  It was a shame this film came out the same year as Forrest Gump, this
deserved every award it was nominated for, I highly recommend to anyone to
see this film, because it is among one of the best i've ever
seen.

******
19 September 2001
10

When I first saw this film I was completely blown away, it was on T.V. late
at night and I was recording it after hearing about it, but after it began I
couldn't stop watching it, then again the next day. This film can not be
viewed by anyone just once, everybodies performance in this film is
excellent, most notably the lead characters. direction, writing, just
everything is amazing, and the way it makes you feel when the film ends is
quite unlike any film I have ever seen, and doubt ever will again. This is a
film that EVERYBODY just HAS to see, something that I have been telling all
my friends since.To illustrate how good this film is I was once asked what my favourite films
were, I was in a big group of people, in which many walks of life were
represented, I mentioned the Shawshank Redemption and every single person
there gave out a sigh of appreciation and a slow nod.

******
18 September 2001
10

jake1st@yahoo.com asked:  "Finally, can someone please tell me how he got
that poster of Racquel Welch back on the wall after he climbed frontways
into that tunnel?"For someone who was apparently closely observing this film, you should have
noticed how it was attached to the wall. It was hanging from above. Thus
Andy Dufresne would only have to lift it up (like a flap) and it would flap
back down behind him.Watch it again if you don't believe me. I believe this is shown twice, if
not more.

******
16 September 2001
10

Shawshank needs to be watched more than once to fully appreciate it. This
is
a story that is so disparaging at times you want to cry for the character,
its so totally immersing that by the end, you feel everything that they
feel
and along with the happy ending, is laced the whole tragic waste of life
that leaves you feeling sad as well. The film itself is simply the finest
piece of film making in history. There are no self-indulgent filming
techniques used, no abstract elements to the story and the acting is
sincere.Based on a story by Stephen King, your getting a character driven story
that
is acted superbly, the part of Red, played by Morgan Freeman could not
have
been cast any better, he is utterly superb, as is Andy, played by Tim
Robbins and the rest of the supporting cast.If you haven't seen this film, shame on you! You owe it to
yourself..

******
14 September 2001
10

The first time i saw the Shawshank Redemption i hadn't heard
much about it. It was recommended to me by my big brother who
had seen it in school. I was amazed, never had i seen such a
capturing movie. I was stunned, and especially because this
movie had not spend millions of dollars on hi-fi special effects.
Tim Robbins played brilliant, I dont understand that he isn't payed
as much for his films as; Tom Cruise or Tom Hanks, they couldn't
have played this role as convincing as he did, he was fantastic.
This is truely one of the great master pieces of the past
century.

******
14 September 2001
10

This has got to be the best film that I have ever seen. It is Funny,
Emotional and thoroughly enjoyable...It makes you search for a better side
of yourself. And it just makes you feel good about yourself. And realise
that "Hope, Will set you Free".

******
13 September 2001
10

One of, if not the best movie ever made. A classic that will last forever.
If you have not yet seen this movie, do yourself a favor and BUY it, don't
rent it. This is a movie you should own. I'm not a person who only likes
certain genres of film. I watch all kinds of different films and this is
at
the top. 

******
12 September 2001
10

This film never loses its quality no matter how many times you watch it.
When I had access to a DVD player, it was one of the first films I
bought.I have had a bereavement in the family recently and watching this film
certainly lifted my spirits.

******
11 September 2001
10

THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION (1994)
Rating: 10/10If there was ever any prison drama that deserved 11/10 The Shawshank
Redemption would be it. This is an insightful, brilliant, amazing,
thundering, moving, adventurousit would take 3 review forms to list all the
adjectives. From the first moment on the movie is quite simply a masterpiece
with elegance, style, suspense, intelligence, violence, wit and maturity.
Each scene in this masterful prison drama is a showstopper, we're never
bored and always intrigued. Even at a running time of 2½ hours the film
never slows down its story and always keeps us glued to the seat with some
really gripping scenes and conversations. Excellent performances from Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman and a highly commendable directing and writing
debut from the mastermind that is Frank Darabont make the film more worth
while. It is so rarely that a film like things comes along, it really makes
you wonder why Forrest Gump won the 1994 Best Picture Oscar when this is not
only the best film of 1994 but one of the top 5 best films ever
made.

******
11 September 2001
10

This film is certainly not disposable, it stays with you for a long time
after you watch it.  I have to say that of all the films I have ever
watched
this is the most captivating.  I remember going to the cinema when it was
first out and only choosing it because I had missing the beginning of
another picture; how fortunate I was.  To see it on the big screen made the
full directing and acting quality of this film apparent from the start,
this
is not lost on the small screen.  It truly is a classic and I cannot
imagine
any other film knocking it off my top spot  

******
11 September 2001
10

I have watched this film so many times, it was my first buy when I bought
my
DVD player.
It is the way that Andy triumphs over the system that can't help but put
you
in a good mood

******
10 September 2001
10

There's 2 kinds of people who watch this film - this who get it and those
who don't.Of the latter category, yeah OK, it is just a film about a couple of guys
in
prison.  It's excellently acted, scripted, directed and filmed.  And yeah
it
does have a great ending.But there's something more than that.  And this is where former category of
people come in.The film is about hope, and living with hope.  "Andy Dufrenes" (Tim
Robbins)
is imprisoned wrongly.  Where many people would have given up, he refuses
to
do so and throughout his time in prison, clings to that hope.  A journey of
1000 miles is taken one step at a time.Contrast this to "Red" (Morgan Freeman).  He's become used to being in
prison, he's institutionalised, his repeated parole refusals have meant
he's
give up hope.  And like Brooks before him he knows that he wouldn't survive
on the outside."Get busy living, or get busy dying", says Andy.  It's the hope that Andy
has carried throughout that provides the salvation, the redemption, for
both
himself and Red.I can't recommend this movie highly enough.

******
10 September 2001
10

This is definitely one of the greatest films of all time.I watched it again for the second time last night, and was thrilled to see
some scenes which I'd completely forgotten about.The story is gripping, and it's superb how it unfolds. The acting can't be
faulted, and the music really gives it a monumental feel. Brooks is a great
character, as are all of the characters really, but if I had to pick one
out, Brooks is the man.Not only is it entertaining, the subplots are great and there are some
classic lines. Like the warden at the start: "There are two things I
believe
in; discipline and the Bible. Here you'll receive both. Put your trust in
the Lord; your ass belongs to me. Welcome to Shawshank."A classic.

******
10 September 2001
10

Quite possibly. Never before have I seen a film that has satisfied me in
every way. The story line is excellent, the acting superb. The way the
story
fits together is wonderful. I cried tears of joy at the finish, partly
because I was so happy for the characters, and partly because I realized I
had watched one of the best films ever.

******
9 September 2001
10

The Shawshank Redemption is a beautiful film. The last fifteen minutes are
so wonderful it made me cry - and the only other film that has made me cry
is the climax of The Truman Show. This is a film that makes you see life in
a completely different way - a hopeful way. Don't watch some shallow
nonsense like Mission Impossible II, watch a film that you'll remember your
entire life. Watch The Shawshank Redemption. It's got 9 out of 10 for a
reason, you know. 

******
9 September 2001
10

having watched "shawshank the redeeming feature" broadcast here in the
u.k.
last night i thought it was time to add my voice to the plaudits rightly
showered on this wonderful movie
i have never met anyone who doesn't believe that it is one of the greatest
films ever made
it crosses demographic,age and sex barriers like almost no other film that
i
have come across
it is an impossible film to ignore and notwithstanding repeated viewing it
maintains it's capacity to inspire and captivate
in my view it is rightly lauded as one of the best five movies of all
time
p.s. well done mark kermode and channel4 for last night's documentary-more
of this type of thing please dvd extras have shown that there is
definitely
a market for these sort of documentaries

******
9 September 2001
10

This is the best film I have ever seen. there where so many twists and more
than one plot running at the same time. A great piece of film making. I
feel
the ending was the perfect ending, I know how they where going to end the
film, with Morgan Freeman on the bus hoping to see his friend. my all time
best film.

******
9 September 2001
10

The first time I saw this movie it took my breath away, everytime I have
watched it since it still has the same effect on me! One of my favourite
films of all time!!!!!!!!
I have recommended it to other people who have said 'it's only a prison
movie', but after they have seen it they ALL changed their minds! And agree
is a life changer not just a movie.

******
9 September 2001
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of those films of which people used to say
"they don't make 'em like that anymore". Well, Frank Darabont had the
courage to do it and the world owes him a debt of gratitude. With the
advent
of the 90s there was the feeling that Hollywood, and Hollywood audiences,
could never again accept such a thoughtful, emotional and "feelgood" movie
as Shawshank. It shouldn't have been made in this era but thank God it was.
Stick it in black and white and it could quite easily have come right out
of
the 50s along with It's A Wondeful Life. Most 90s films to which the
critics
automatically responded with the word "classic", Pulp Fiction, American
Beauty, Fight Club, may or may not endure "the test of time" but there's no
such doubts about The Shawshank Redemption. It is a true classic.


******
9 September 2001
10

this film is quite simply "the greatest film of all time" and I could wax
lyrical about it all day, but I probably would'nt do it any justice by
doing
this.I saw an programme made by channel 4 (u.k. tv channel) which basically
took
you through the film, and how this powerful film has effected people's
lives. It didn't surprise me, but never the less really does sum up the
effect this film can have on some people, when the presenter said that
this
film has actually stopped some people commiting suicide, because as these
people said " it gave them hope ". Truely I think this is an amazing
thing,
and the ultimate accolade to the best film I have ever
seen.

******
8 September 2001
10

This is the best story driven movie ever, and yet until the end it doesn't
have any forceful direction in plot, it doesn't need it. All the lead up is
a natural story, which is allowed to evolve and expand in a way that is so
humanly aware and so subtle that it's remarkable. I remember showing this
movie to some friends after I'd seen it and a parent walked in about
halfway
through and asked "was it good?" they all said it was enthralling and
amazing, then the parent added "what's it about?". There was a pause,
because everyone realised that to summarise this movie would undermine what
it is about in every way possible: every nuance and intricacy is important,
and they deserve every minute of screen time that they are generously
awarded. We grow into the characters so well that we aren't surprised by
how
they behave, because we can understand it. Even the apparently crazy antics
of Brooks is wholly comprehensible.
Then there's the music, amazingly visual and emotionally abundant in
content. The movies so good that it doesn't need music to drive it, but
when
the music is of such astounding quality you begin to get a real resonance
of
mood, and an extra dimension of depth in the already amazing aesthetics of
the cinematography.
Whether everyone else is blown away by this movie doesn't bother me,
because
I will know how lucky I am. Lucky that I came across this movie, and lucky
that I get it... that I really get it, in a way obviously not everyone in
the world can. Anyone reading this should just hope they will fall into
this
category, and anyone who hasn't yet should just watch it again, and again,
and again... (Please note, the ending is just as perfect as the rest of the
package, but in-case someone hasn't seen it yet, I don't want to give it
away).

******
8 September 2001
9

Spoiler Alert
A few films can presume of the importance that a film like The Shawshank
Redemption does. Shawshank Redemption is considered by some critics as one
of the best movies in the story of American film (listed as #2 by the
Internet Movie Data Base,http://www.imdb.com). For many other people the
film is considered as one of those films which theme is universal and that
transcends throughout the ages and decades. And this is because topics like
freedom, justice and injustice, greed and honesty, and perseverance are
mixed in a manner that specifies what the human condition is and will
be.The performances given by Tim Robbins and the always acclaimed Morgan
Freeman give the film the emotional touch that is easy to get as a viewer.
The story is centered in a person called Andy Dufrense who was convicted
for
the murder of his wife, him, being a young and intelligent banker was one
of
the most promising persons in his category, but all his potential was
brought down with his conviction, undoubtely unfair since it is obvious a
person like Dufrense wouldn´t be capable of such a thing like murdering the
person he loved with all his heart. Also the story of the
"institutionalized" Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding played wonderfully by Morgan
Freeman, a man who lost all hope of ever going out even if he had already
payed more than he had ever expected for his crime, until he met Dufrense,
who as anyone could see teaches Red the meaning of what to have a dream is,
even if it takes you 20 years to accomplish it.Greed comes in form of Captain Byron Hadley played by lancy Brown, an
unscrupulous man, who ironicly although he directed the place were the
"bad" element of society is reformed he was no better than the ones he
subdued. Hadley since he first met Dufrense sought in him his golden egg
gouse and used him to fulfill a fraud becoming Dufrense now into a real
criminal, which he wasn´t until he got to jail. When the opportunity to
prove Dufrense´s innocence comes, Hadley makes everything as possible to
avoid that even though the assesination of a young person was in the
middle.
At the end, Dufrense escapes from jail through a hole he had dug for 20
years covering the evidence with several posters from the hollywood divas
from those times from Rita Hayworth to Jane Fonda.But, let´s talk about Andy Dufresne for a while, let´s take the scene at
the
roof of the building in which Andy gets beers for his coworkers in exchange
for work. At the end of the scene we can see the smile of Andy, a happy
man,
who was happy with small little accomplishments. Andy was someone who was
talented and yet, all he wanted was a yat in Puerto Vallarta near by the
beach and that would be the heaven for him. In a world full of intelligent
people who use their talents to get to the top, andy was one who needed
little to be happy.Of course the success of this film is based on what most of the famous
films
do, an utopic idea of society or how the human being should have been. Andy
is the prototype of how all of us should be, never loose the sense of hope,
always fight for what you want, greed and money is not good, and of course,
being like this you will always succeed. After all, a movie that should be
seen by everyone. 

******
26 August 2001
8

but the #2 movie of all-time ??!!? It's all opinion, of course.  However, I doubt even Stephen King or Tim
Robbins would vote for this enjoyable saga as the #2 all-time movie.  It is
a marvelous adaptation of King's short story.  Robbins, Freedman, and Gunton
are all terrific, as is James Whitmore in his short role. My biggest criticism is the slow detailing of Red's every move after being
released from prison, and before going after the fortune.  That part was a
bit labored and overlong.  Nonetheless, the movie was witty, exciting, and
well-acted, but was purposefully limited in scope.  Very good, yes! 
Excellent? Perhaps.  Great?  I must demur on great.

******
22 August 2001
10

I saw this film about 4 or 5 years ago after hearing nothing but praise
about it. After reading the blurb I couldn't wait to get the tape in. Since
then I have seen the film numerous times and am still not bored. It truly
is
a classic in every essence of the word. In my opinion possibly the best
film
of all time, maybe 2nd only to Forrest Gump. They truly don't make film's
like this any more.

******
21 August 2001
10

Any other year, this would've won Best Picture.  Probably Best Director,
Best Actor, Best Supporting Actor, and Best Screenplay too.  This film had
the misfortune of going against juggernaut Forrest Gump, and there was no
way that it could beat the hype surrounding the good (though not great)
Gump.  Still, seven years later, it looks like this is the film from 1994
that people will remember long after Forrest has faded
away.

******
21 August 2001
10

What a remarkable film this is. I remember the first time I saw it. It was
on video, since I was only 11 when it came out, and I sat down, and I had
heard that it was a terrific movie, but I had no idea just how truly GREAT
this movie is. After the first viewing I knew it was one of my favorites.
I've only seen it three times, so as not to wear it out, and each time, I
am
blown away.Morgan Freeman is already one of my favorite actors, (Along with Kevin
Spacey, James Cromwell, and Edward Norton) and his performance here is
simply the best of his career. His "Red" is a weathered man who has lost
hope. He's not a "bad" man, even though he did kill a man in his youth.
Morgan Freeman is calm and collected, yet his on-screen presence is so
powerful. We are drawn to him, almost more-so than to Andy because Andy
keeps to himself, while Red narrates. This is partly the point, to turn the
audience into an inmate. We only know as much as they do about him. He
isn't
revealed to us directly very much. And we eventually find out
why.I love the way the men of this prison use almost a hierarchy and establish
their own little kingdom, with the jail, obviously as their castle. I like
watching Andy as he strives to be normal, doing whatever he can to get his
mind off of the fact that he's in prison. One of the film's best moments
comes when Andy makes a deal that allows all of the roof workers to have a
beer, and to just sit around, and be carefree for a few minutes. But for
others the prison is normal, all they know, their only life. They call it
"institutionalized" but what it really means is hopeless. And it's a
constant battle to keep that from happening. And eventually it seems, that
everyone caves in to the fact that they will die at that
place.This is unquestionably one of the most powerful and moving films of all
time. (WARNING: SPOILERS!!!) There are four ending sequences that come one
after another that move so fluidly and with such grace that I am in awe
just
thinking about it. 1. Andy's escape and all of the explanation that goes
along with it. The long tunnel of crap, Andy's joy in the pond while the
rain pours upon him. 2. The day after and everything that happens to the
warden and the guard are done brilliantly. 3. Red's parole hearing. At this
point he just doesn't give a crap about anything anymore. He talks about
his
regret, not because he thinks it will get him out, but so that they will
know that his punishment is not so much prison as it is wishing he could've
made a better decision. Wishing that the young Red would've had guidance.
4.
The reunion at the end while Red narrates. The most wonderful lines come
when he's on the bus, and we hear his voice over about how he has shrugged
off his "Institutionalization" and is ready to not know what happens next.
This is the absolute perfect tone to end the movie on. What sheer
brilliance. It is sad that this film didn't win ANY Oscars. It certainly
deserved to.   

******
21 August 2001
10

I must say that I was I little surprised to see the euphoric comments that
other users have bestowed on The Shawshank Redemption. Although I
thoroughly
enjoyed the film, I would not place it with the cinematic greats. It has an
excellent storyline that both surprises and ultimately satisfies, and is
well acted. However, there is little flair in its direction and some of its
characters are a little cliched. To sum up, the Shawshank Redemption is an
enjoyable film with some well thought out twists to the tale, but the 2nd
best film of all time? I don't think so.

******
12 August 2001
10

I saw this movie last week and I must say that it is the most wonderfull
movie ever made in human history. It contains all elements that makes a
movie big, and how big, damn I was completely blown away when the movie
ended. Its about a man (Andy Dufresne)(Tim Robbins) who is judged guilty and
ends up in "ThE ShAwShAnK PrIsOn", he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) and become
friends, I've never seen such a great acting like this two together. Andy
Dufresne is the hope itself and has to face a hard time in prison till...Im
not gonna reveal the movie any further because YOU MUST SEE IT, Its just the
best movie ever made, Memento, Schindler's list and American History X were
awsome but this one will blow you completely away! 10 out of 10 and even
more if it could be.
                    --------ENJOY IT--------

******
11 August 2001
10

A wonderfully scripted film complimented by the acting qualities of Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman.This is by far the best film I have ever seen and I would recommend that
every movie fan see it.

******
9 August 2001
10

the film is unique as it seems like the same old story but keeps you
absolutely riveted from the opening line to the end credits and one of the
things which i personally like the best is the way that we never really
find
out if he is innocent or not if you have not seen this movie i strongly
suggest that it is one of the things that should be very high on your
things
to do list but dont just listen to me you can see that it is number 2 on
the
list

******
6 August 2001
10

best movie ever. better than all other movies. even godfather which is
number one on this site's top 250. best movie ever                                         17 out of 10                                           ***** out of
****

******
4 August 2001
10

Could not sleep at night after watching this film. One of the BEST DAMN
films EVER made. Simply loved it. Rented it without much expectation, but
boy what a surprise. Never have I been so moved by a film. Also see American
Beauty, Green Mile. A MUST SEE! 10/10

******
2 August 2001
10

This movie is truly moving. It draws you in and takes you along with the
characters as they live their lives. The plot is extremely well developed.
Every character has a lot of depth and the acting is top notch. The end
gives me goose bumps every time that I watch it. I can never get enough of
it. I have seen the movie at least 50 times and just writing about it makes
me want to go watch it again. You will not be disappointed with The
Shawshank Redemption.

******
26 July 2001
10

i first saw this movie on tv many years ago. i loved it from the start.
ever
since then i have seen clips and quotes from it all over my daily life.
watching it again, i realize how truly wonderful it is. not only is the
acting some of the best i have ever seen, the script is very well written
and the message it gives stays with you. this movie is the best i have ever
seen.

******
24 July 2001
10

It is tough to summarize the true power of this truly
great
film. It was moving, thought-provoking, and powerful. It was truly robbed
of
the 1994 Best picture, just because Forrest Gump was more succesful in
theatres. Shawshank was much deeper, and i was a great
injustice.
Shawshank chronicled the relationship between two jailed
inmate through the 40's, 50's and 60's. It was a film about how no matter
how hard a man is broken, beaten down, and crushed emoionally he still can
keep hope. I truly loved this film and it grows better with each viewing.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman gave great performances in this film. Frank
Darabot had great direction over this film, and Stephen King's short story
was great. This is a must see for anyone. Like I said before this is in my
opinion the greatest fim ever made.

******
19 July 2001
10
...followed,very closely,behind by Stand By Me.The novella Rita Hayworth... is one of his best as well,so when I heard
that it was being made into a film,i was worried at how it came out.All that worrying was for nothing.Superb performances(Sorry, but where was the Oscars for Tim Robbins,
Morgan Freeman, Frank Darabont etc),a script that sticks to the novella
but doesn't get bogged down in over plotting(like Pet Semetary) and
some brilliant direction make this one of the truly great films of the
1990's.Pity about The Green Mile (1999)...

******
17 July 2001
10

I saw this movie after I saw "The Green Mile." I loved "The Green Mile" and
thought that I should see another prison movie with the same director. Boy
was I glad I did.  The one thing I love about this movie is it's wonderful ending. I felt like
that was the best thing that could have happened at that time. I loved it. The only thing I didn't like was that I felt that the wardon got off easy.
He died instantly. In my eyes he should of had to go to prison and live a
horrible life. Oh well. This is by far one of the best movies I have ever seen and I encourage
everyone to see it. I cannot believe that someone would dare give this movie
a 1. If you did, please e-mail me so I can thoroughly yell at you. Oh, did anyone else notice that the music seemed very similar to the music
in "The Green Mile?" 10/10

******
16 July 2001
8

When I saw this movie on the top 250 movies of all time list (it appeared as
#2) I thought I was in for one of the best movies ever made.  Yes, it was an
interesting story, but it seemed much too unrealistic to be among the top
10.  I mean sure, The Sixth Sense, one of my favorite movies, is
unrealistic, but we realize that going into the movie.  It doesn't play
itself off as a real movie about real friendships.  The movie was worth seeing, but the way everything fell into place was
really disturbing for me.  That's not real life.  I give the movie a 7 out
of 10, in that, it was a good movie, but it certainly wasn't the
best.

******
12 July 2001
10

Coming into this film you really don't think that you will see a movie of
this high caliber.  I think I have seen this movie over 30 times in my time
on this planet and i look forward to viewing it many more times.  This is a
drama which follows Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) as he has to serve a lengthy
jail sentence for the murder of his wife.  Although he claims he is innocent
the overwhelming evidence lands him in the Shawshank Prison.  At first sight
he is seen as "The tall drink of water with the silver spoon up his ass" and
is doubted from the start.  He keeps to himself for the most part until he
meets Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman) and creates and special
friendship with him.  
        
This story line creates one of the most moving films of not even the 90's
but dare I say of all time.  This is my favorite movie and will always be my
favorite movie and I think that the performances by the whole cast (mostly
Robbins and Freeman) deserve critical acclaim for their portrayal of two
people just trying to make it in life.  
        
The musical score of this film is also astounding and excellent by Thomas
Newman one of the most working film composers out there.  The Director
(Frank Darabont) directors one of his prison dramas and most likely his
best.  This film is emotional, intense, uplifting and should be seen by
everyone.  I give this film a 10/10, 4 stars, thumbs up and everything along
those lines, please for the good of humanity see this movie laugh, cry and
get busy living.

******
8 July 2001
10

A faithful telling of Stephen King's novelette "Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank
Redemption", this movie explores a wide range of emotions without ever
feeling sensational or melodramatic. It's a really good story told really
well on film (unlike a lot of King adaptations).Tim Robbins is absolutely fantastic as the "fresh" inmate, radiating
intelligence, courage, innocence, and mystery with equal ability. Morgan
Freeman plays the wily veteran convict who forges a respectful friendship
with Robbins, and since it's Freeman, you know he does a good
job.There's no special effects wizardry, no furious action, no steamy romance,
no clever "Pulp Fiction" banter. It takes place virtually entirely in a
prison, so there isn't much distraction with location, scenery, or
movement.
This movie is pure story and character, which really makes you appreciate
just how amazing the performances are.The movie is basically the gradual discovery of what Robbins' character is
all about--what he's done, what's he's thinking, how he's going to end up.
The strength of the acting, and the adherence to King's work does a superb
job in making you sincerely care about the past and fate of this
man.There is also a good deal of subtle philosophical elements to the movie,
which doesn't hurt. Certainly the penal system as we know it is
questioned,
but there is also a broader view of life itself, almost in the Victor
Frankl
"Man's Search for Meaning" kind of way, where the strength of the human
spirit is tested to the extreme. What does it take to destroy hope and
happiness?There exists only a handful of movies that I'll ever rate a solid 10. This
is easily one of them. 

******
5 July 2001
10

I love this movie, best movie ever made. I garuntee that if you see this
movie for the fist time, it will be in your top ten after you finish
watching it. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins both diserved the best male
oscar award for this picture.

******
28 June 2001
8

If Hollywood were the bakery section at your local supermarket, "The
Shawshank Redemption" would be that sweet rich carrot cake they sometimes
have--obviously commercially produced to appeal to as many people as
possible, but nevertheless infinitely better than a plastic-wrapped
snack-cake like "Forrest Gump", which goes down easy but leaves a funny
taste in your mouth for hours afterward.Of course if this movie were a cake, I suppose it'd have a file in
it.

******
26 June 2001
9

After I saw Darabont's "Green Mile" I heard that he had another movie, and I
had to see it.  I taped Shawshank on TV and watched it, not expecting a
lot.
Well, it wasn't as good as "Green Mile," but it was pretty darned close, and
it was quite similar in terms of themes and character types.  I thought the
warden was terrific.  I was so engrossed in the movie, I wanted to strangle
the man myself.  Although many say the movie was predictable, I was quite
surprised by the ending.  As in the case of the "Green Mile," the awards
Shawshank richly deserved were passed on to other, not so good,
films.
The only downside was the portrayal of the characters.  The movie basically
said that criminals are good guys, and the prison guards are villains. 
Isn't it the other way around?I give Shawshank a 9/10

******
25 June 2001
9

tim robbins and morgan freeman are great in the film it movies you in
every
way the movie is based on 20 years of these men lives and goes up and down
the whole way and made very realistic and people can relate to it you cant
not like this master peace it's the best movie ive seen in a while
.

******
22 June 2001
10

Great lead performances by Robbins and Freeman. An outstanding supporting
cast, fine cinematography by Roger Deakins, well-chosen shots by editor
Richard Francis-Bruce, a haunting musical score by Thomas Newman, and a
well-realized adaptation of the short story by Stephen King as adapted and
directed by Frank Darabont.  What still amazes me about the overall positive response to "Shawshank" on
the IMDb is how it touched viewers years after it was released into
theaters. I saw the movie in the theaters after it received a few weeks
after the Oscar nominations were announced. I was blown away by the movie
then and it still gets to me now. 


******
21 June 2001
10

I LOVE the Shawshank Redemption. It gives the story of a prison inmate in
his many years at an institution. This movie is so great, I cried in the
middle of it! When Brooks dies has got to be the saddest moment in movie
history. I cried for a good 10 minutes. He let his bird go, and he took his
life. Very sad stuff. It's great how they start up a library helping the
illiterate inmates. It shows some of the atrocites that inmates go through
even if they are innocent. A VERY GREAT movie and probably the best of all
time. I give it an A++++++.

******
20 June 2001
10

It is a movie that focuses on principals and fundamental values of humans
beings, such as freedom. It is a movie about dreams, and how to achieve
them. About how someone can be a free man while prisoned. About how someone
can be a prisoner, while living in open space. Indicating that you must
first change yourself internally to what you want to become and then
gradually achieve it. Difficulties are to come but nothing hurts unless you
get your eyes off your dream.Institutionalization, is something that many people have been infected with,
but they seem not to be able to understand it. You don't have to be in a
prison to get institutionalised. Look around you and you will see a race of
slaves fighting every day to defend their slavery. Watch the "MATRIX" and don't focus on the fighting scenes, but on the
meanings spoken out by Morpheas during the first part of the movie. You will
then notice the similarities between the two movies, both concentrating on
freedom from a slightly different view angle.All the above are wooven around a firm and perfect cinematographic structure
of excellent performances, brilliant shooting and atmosphere.If art is to cultivate people, meaning the focusing of people on principles
and fundamental values, then "The Shawshank Redemption" is sure one of the
best tools to fulfill this task. To me it is one of the few movies that justify the existance of film making.
Without such movies cinema would have been a mean of erosion of human
personalities.I have seen this movie 7 times and i keep watching it to remind me of things
that everyday routine makes you forget. Things that give happiness to your
soul, not your mind. Things that set worthwhile goals for someone. I believe
that everyone needs such tools to help him go after his godgiven rights
which are neglected everyday due to the soul devastating slavery, our minds
put us through. I can honestly say that this movie is the tool for
me.Sure nobody is perfect and someone may point out weaknesses of this film.
But he is just missing the forest focusing on the first bush he comes
across. What a waste of an opportunity.I hope that other people like this film and may get something good out of
it. I am sure this film won't fit with everyone because everyone is
different. But it will always be one of the best film i have ever
seen.


******
16 June 2001
10

This is one of the best drama movies I've ever seen. It seems that Stephen
King's jail novels are always a success movies, as The Green mile was even
better than this. Homewer, these two movies are so different they really
can't be compared.Tim Robbins plays one of his best (if not the best of all) roles and I
could
not imagine anyone else to this role. The story is stunning and this time,
the movie is actually better than the book.When you start to watch this film, you can't stop, until the film ends.
That
describes how interesting and addictive this movie is. I recommend this to
anyone, except to the most eager action fans.

******
11 June 2001
10

It's rare to find a modern movie of this caliber. 'Shawshank' is not
cheapened with some feel-good Hollywood romance, heroic fight scenes, or a
fast paced, edge-of-your-seat escape plan. In place of this ever-present
drivel, this movie excites the heart and warms the soul through the
excellent performances, exquisite story-line, and unforgettable quotes.
Andy
demonstrates a heroic spirit and an indomitable will to touch the lives of
those around him.

******
9 June 2001
10

This film appeals to anyone, thats why its #2 on IMDB. This film for some
reason made only 28 million at the box-office. I love Forrest Gump I really
do, but this is the best picture if the year. It has some sorta quality that
is rare in films that instead of pulling you away, it draws you closer. The
30th time you watch this film, you will still be drawn in closer. The film
is magical. Don't ever forget that.

******
6 June 2001
10

If Forrest Gump didn't come out the same year, this movie would have one
hands down!  Then maybe I would know 
more poeple who actually have seen it.  I feel like IU live in the land of
the culturally deprived.  I was dragged kicking 
and screaming to see Shawshank, because I thought "who cares about a bunch
of prisoners?"  After seeing it, I sure 
did.  Andy  is the best movie character ever.  Tim Robbins played him to
perfection.

******
5 June 2001
10

I have just finished watching this movie for about the sixth time and I
still feel the inspiration of hope in my heart from the movie's glorious
ending. I give this movie a 10 out of 10 and yes this is my favourite movie.
I'm sure there's others which tie in my taste for best picture I just can't
bring them to mind right now. (Actually, come to think of it The Breakfast
Club ranks pretty high up there as well.)I just wanted to say that this
movie is very well done all the way from the acting, the storyline, to the
musical track it wins on all three fronts for me. And I also wanted to say
that it may have been robbed at the Oscars or almost passed through
unrecognized by the public in its theatrical release, or may have even made
not that much money it seems to have been redeemed itself on the IMDB with a
well deserved #2 ranking among the favourites IMDB voters voted for. A must
see.

******
1 June 2001
9

Interpretation, spoilers: Brooks represents complete complacency with life, so much so that any
disturbance causes anxiety and suicidal ideation. Red also, for a time,
represents this complacency. This movie is not simply a prison story, its
message is generalized to mankind in general and it can be assumed that this
complacency also represents modern man's need for routine - to the detriment
of authentic living. It takes an unjustly imprisoned man, Andy, to demonstrate to Red the
life-or-death importance of hope and the freedom allowed by hope. As shown,
hope entails slight fear because it necessarily interferes with order in
life. Andy illustrates that this fear is a part of living, and renunciation
from it results in an ingenuine sort of living. Red soon realizes - given the rock hammer, the poster, and the mexico plans
- that Andy had never given up his hope despite 19 years in prison. Hope and
a sense of freedom and allowed even in prison, but not to all (music scene).
For Red, it takes an actual physical freedom to live with a sense of hope.
Andy, by exuding auras of hope from the beginning - though he would be
expected to despair the most given his innocence - helps Red reach an
epiphany of sorts; certainty and hope are mutually exclusive, and hope is
always to be preferred. The Brook's path is shirked, and Red chooses life in
all of its confusion, because true hope is omnipotent.   

******
1 June 2001
10

I see like 1400 people rated this movie a 1 out of 10.  Please, if you are
one of these people, email me so we can talk, and so i can ultimately rip
your soul apart and see what it is like to be non-human.  As far as the
movie goes, im sure not many people have seen it, if you havent, please do
so, you wont be sorry.

******
30 May 2001
10

I would describe this movie as as close you can get to movie perfection.
There are points where you will laugh. Points where you will cringe. Points
will you will feel so angry and points where you will feel so sad. But,
ultimately, you will come to realize that with faith and hope, anything is
possible. (Warning content and quote given ahead)
The language is a bit extreme, but it is set in a prison, and as the
character Red says in the movie, "Prison ain't a fairy tale world"
(Paraphrase). 
This isn't a family movie, but every movie fan needs to see this at least
once. This is my favorite movie.

******
25 May 2001
9

Very few movies can move moods so subtly and then surprise you at the
end,
but this one did that for me.A skillfully evocative piece that shows the rewards of morality and
undying
faith.

******
21 May 2001
9

Shawshank is a favourite of the Imdb. Always in the top 5, lots and lots of
positive comments. I personally know many people who call this their
all-time favourite.I wont go that far, but it gets highest marks from me. Just see it. It is
the simple tale of Andy, the wrongly-convicted straight-laced accountant and
Red, the aging murderer he befriends in prison. They both enter and leave
different people, and to truly appreciate this film, pay careful attention
to that plot point. Who they are when they enter and who the are when they
leave.This is not a perfect movie. It could have lost 20 minutes without taking
away anything, and some of the dialogue is trite. But it is nonetheless
powerful and moving.It was not a box office or a video hit. But slowly and surely, largely
through this website, it has developed a large, loyal and ardent following.
Even Roger Ebert has added it to this "Great Movies" list, even though it
did not garner four stars on its release and did not make his top 10 of the
year.You will likely find that this movie will grow on you. It is very watchable
and like a good wine, improves with age. **** out of ****.

******
20 May 2001
10

This movie is one of the best movies I have ever seen no matter who you are
you should love this movie and if you havn't seen it, see it! Tim Robbins
gives a performance that is probly one of the most unforgetable also Morgan
Freeman gives just as good of a performance. This movie has no flaws and it
is SO good

******
18 May 2001
10

I have seen TSR about 5 or 6 times now, and every time I watch it, it's
getting better!
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are great together and the end of the movie
is the best movie ending ever!!
A tale of courage and friendship.
Go see it!!!


******
16 May 2001
10

Two words: Flawless masterpiece.  While not the greatest movie ever made, it
should certainly rank extremely high.  Unless you're completely repulsed by
the idea of a prison film, or if you're too immature to appreciate good
drama, you're going to absolutely love, love, love this film.  This film was
largely overlooked at the time because of the mega-popular "Forrest Gump"
(an extremely excellent film in its own right), but it holds up because of a
timeless quality that very few films possess (I know the film's only 7 years
old, but I think that's long enough).  If you're uncomfortable with some of
the more graphic themes of the movie, it's still worth a look (certain cable
networks regularly show an edited for TV version of the movie).  This is a
must see for anyone who calls themselves a film-buff.

******
15 May 2001
10

I watch it at least once a week. Changed the way I live my life. Better
than
medicine when your feeling down or depressed. Still searching for some
people out there who haven't seen it. I love watching it with someone who
has never seen it, just to see their reaction. It's like I'm watching the
film for the first time. The best movie ever, "that's god damn
right"!

******
10 May 2001
10

I have seen this movie many times and I still get that wonderful feeling
every time I see it. I love it so much that I have so far bought 6 vcds for
my friends and they all love it. And if you want to know why, just see it
for yourself.

******
7 May 2001
10

One of the best films I've ever seen...it got all the elements from life.
Hope, struggle, suffer, friendship, joy and all the other things all
performed by the best actors around. Morgan Freeman (as always) and Tim
Robbins make this movie something that everyone should see, It's pure
pleasure all the way...

******
6 May 2001
10

This is a story about the despair of life in prison, as well as the
friendship and hope that can be found and maintained within its walls,
against all odds.As mentioned above, and as far as I am concerned, this movie is the best of
all time.  I have lost count of the number of times I have seen this movie,
and it touches me every time I watch it.  As a matter of fact, I just
finished watching this movie on television, on a cable channel that cannot
seem to get enough of showing this film.  I'm sure you know the one I mean,
because they have shown this movie dozens of times, usually back to back. 
If you are a fan of this film, I'm sure you watch it every time it is on,
much like I do, and are always amazed, yet again, at the end of
it.This film is written so eloquently that I doubt much could top it.  Having
not read the original short story by Stephen King (which is titled "Rita
Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption"), I cannot comment on the accuracy of
the movie in relation to his telling of story.  However, I'm sure that it
does justice to King's writing.  Frank Darabont, who wrote the screenplay
and directed Shawshank, also wrote the screenplay for and directed King's
other prison film, The Green Mile, which also should not be
missed.The acting here is excellent, but I doubt anybody would be surprised at
that, given the cast present here.  Morgan Freeman (Se7en, Deep Impact, Kiss
The Girls) has shown time and time again that he is one of Hollywood's best
and most underrated actors, and he certainly shines here as Red, the man who
"knows how to get things."  Freeman's narration is superb, I doubt a better
job could have been done by anyone else.  In the history of film, people
such as James Earl Jones and Martin Sheen never fail to provide narration
that is highly eloquent, but this film shows that Freeman deserves to be in
the same category as those two actors.  Tim Robbins does a great job as Andy
Dufresne, an innocent man who knows he will remain in prison for a long time
to come, but refuses to give up hope.Despite excellent writing and acting, however, I believe the most poignant
thing about this film is the score.  Present at the best times, and lacking
when it should be, the use of the score for this film helps set the tone and
the mood for almost every scene.  Obviously, in a film set in a prison,
there isn't much happiness to go around.  However, certain scenes in this
film are defined by the score that goes with them, making the viewer look
twice at a scene which would otherwise be quite drab and seemingly
unimportant, and making them appear different than they are, thus impressing
the theme of hope on the viewer in an almost subconscious
fashion.Historically, of course, this film will never be viewed with the respect and
honor it deserves, especially with newer, more appealing prison-based films
available, such as the aforementioned The Green Mile.  It is unfortunate
that Shawshank didn't win the Academy Awards it was nominated for, because
it certainly deserved them.  However, during its Oscar year, it was up
against a little Tom Hanks vehicle called Forrest Gump, a movie which held
back most others that year, and deservedly so.  As often happens, seemingly
to avoid one particular film taking home all the gold, Oscars were awarded
to other films over Forrest Gump that year in various categories, and it's
too bad that Shawshank wasn't one of them.I guarantee that you will love the characters of Andy & Red, along with the
interaction between them; hate Warden Norton and his sniveling sidekick
Captain Hadley; and be moved by the eloquent ending of this fantastic and
unforgettable film.  It truly is an experience not to be missed. 10/10, and I'd give it an 11 if I could.

******
3 May 2001
10

This film is up there with the classics!  Is a deeply moving story, which
portrays friendship, trust, hope and corruption.  The ending is superb, and
brings a smile to my face every single time i watch it.  It shows a very
realistic view of prisons in the 1930's where the officers were almost, or
even more corrupt and evil than the inmates.  This is film which will never become outdated or even considered to be
'coming of age'.  With superb acting from Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, it
has to be the best film I have seen in a long long time.

******
1 May 2001
10

This is quite a story, and the film does an incredible job of telling it.
The acting is magnificent, and the quality of the direction makes this
film
a pleasure to watch.  A great film for the human spirit, and the
importance
of freedom to our well-being.  I voted 10/10 for Shawshank.

******
26 April 2001
10

this is my favorite movie of the 90's.fantastic script& dialogs ,excellent
actors,direction,photography.the best prison movie ever.
one of the few movies you can see thousand times and never get
bored.
i recommend it to anyone that haven't see it so far!antonis

******
25 April 2001
10

I have to confess that I cried at the end of "Shawshank redemption" - I
cried for the first time since my grandmother died. Why was this?The movie is a flamboyant plea for hope in our lives. It shows us that it's
never really over, and that you can redeem for you mistakes and find
happiness in your days.Of course the final passage might be a bit unrealistic. I just say: Poster.
But I really can't blame anybody for doing the story as they did it - it
works perfectly and this final passage somehow liberates the viewer after
nearly two hours of living in prison. The cinematography is simply splendid,
the feeling of being incarcerated is very subtly generated and you only
realize it when you finally "get out" of it. The pictures vary from
frightening to simply beautiful, and the dialogue and the comments of Morgan
Freeman from the Off are really a joy to listen to.But this is just a very rational analysis of a film that stirs very strong
emotions. It is futile to try  to explain this phenomenon in these few
lines, and therefore I won't try to do so. I only can highly recommend this
movie to everybody who is willing to get into a 2 1/2 hour prison movie
which in the end proves to be much more. 10 of 10 even it is a bit long in the middle. 10 of 10 because I somehow
felt a bit liberated after it. 

******
16 April 2001
9

This is what movies are truly made for.  This is movie making as an art
form.  This movie deeply conveys more human insight than I thought possible
in something so short and simple as a film.  It deals with sin, love,
friendship, fear, greed, persistence, frailty, hope, courage, cruelty and a
whole array of other human traits, and it deals with all of them in an
amazingly complex and full manner.  This is a prime example of a creation
that allows us to understand another's soul.  It does this through words,
sounds, facial expressions, in short, everything that a movie can offer us
in condensed form that we often don't pay attention to in life.  We have to
pay attention here.  We can't look away.  If you can come out of this movie
without finding something out about yourself you haven't really experienced
it, perhaps you've just watched it.  I give very few movies a 10, because
nothing man made can ever really be perfect, but some things come close. 
This is one.

******
16 April 2001
10

It's as simple as that and 2 things stopped it from achieving that honour.
The enormous nostalgia eventual winner Forest Gump had most wrapped up in
and more importantly the unappealing first impression this movie gave when
it was released.The worst assumption one could make of The Shawshank Redemption is to
think
it's a depressing prison movie. Admittedly that's exactly what I thought
when I first saw the preview scene of Morgan Freeman telling Tim Robbins
that "hope is a dangerous thing.." I remember thinking OK my life really
isn't like being in prison, but do I wanna watch something that's gonna
bring the mood down a notch. Big mistake at the time, but just like the
title, I had my own redemption of sorts when I caught it on
video.The performances of Robbins & Freeman should have won the best &
supporting
actor oscars and the work of the rest of the cast makes you wish they had
an
ensemble category. To late for "shoulds" I know, but in years to come if
this title doesn't cement itself into the all time top 5 I'll be
surprised.Knowing millions have now seen it would make it easy to reveal more of the
movie to give it a better description for those who haven't, but that's
exactly what would ruin it for them. As cliched as it sounds, the whole
phrase of "just give it a chance and watch it" has probably never been
more
appropriate for a movie like this one.

******
10 April 2001
10

A phenomenal film. A rare gem that surpasses entertainment, resonating with
meaning and enlightenment. The film, and the Stephen King novella it
derives
from, are a treasure. Even if you're not a big reader, seek out Rita
Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption. It's contained in a collection of 4
novellas - one for each season. After you've seen the film, it should be
apparent which season Shawshank is allocated. The book also has enough
deviations, including a different ending, to keep you enthralled even if
you've seen the film several times.

******
7 April 2001
10

This ain't "The Electric Company."  Although all of the performances in this
film are masterful (showing by turns both the depravity and the humanity of
the prison experience) Morgan Freeman's role as "Red" is truly the
centerpiece of this film - so good it defies description.  All I can say is
that of all the movies I own on DVD, this is one of my proudest purchases; a
film I can play that not only shows off how good digital quality looks but
that shows off how an excellent screenplay and great actors can come
together to make a cinematic masterpiece.

******
5 April 2001
10

I've seen this movie about a half-dozen times now, and it's slowly occurred
to me that this is one of my two or three very favorite films. Each time
I've seen it, I can appreciate different things about it, and the depth of
the dialogue, and the meaning behind the events and characters takes on
different symbolism and significance.Having just read the story this was based on, I find it a rare example of
where the film is better than the book. Not that the book isn't good, but
there are some significant changes in the film that helped to make it such
an endearing piece of work, and a more powerful experience than the
original
short story was. The development of the characters of the warden, and
Brooks, for example, really fleshes out the story well.The acting and direction is perfectly subtle and restrained, and though the
feel may be a bit slow at times for some people, it gives a good sense of
the feeling of time slowly dripping by in these people's lives.What a shame that this was nominated for so many Academy Awards, including
Best Picture, Actor (Morgan Freeman), and adapted screenplay,
cinematography, music, etc., but didn't win anything. Granted, "Forrest
Gump" is a great film, too, but it would have been nice if "Shawshank" had
at least won something. Oh, well, that's not really important in the big
picture, I suppose. The fact that this film is ranked #2 of all time here
is
very telling, and I'm sure it will be appreciated for a very long time to
come... I know that every time it comes on TNT, I have to watch it
again!

******
4 April 2001
10

Tremendously involving drama. In my opinion, the best new movie in the
last
10 years or so. My only quibble is that the film deals with prison life
in a
somewhat unrealistic, non-threatening or idealistic way compared to some
prison movies but otherwise it is terrific. The main characters are quite
human and engaging. I found myself almost projecting, mentally, into the
group as they share their day-to-day experiences in the joint. Also, the
film has a happy ending where the good guy succeeds and the bad guy gets
his.

******
1 April 2001
10

I have to give this film a 10. It is easily right up there with Dolores
Claiborne, Rudy, and Contact. Like Dolores Claiborne, this film is a
departure for the usual story inspired by a Stephen King composition. The
movie is quite faithful to the King novella which I also highly
recommend.The acting alone is worth the price of admission. Tim Robbins terrificly
underplays his part. The whole cast contribute to make this more than
just a
movie; if it hits you like I think it will, you will be forever marked by
it.Sadly neither this film nor Pulp Fiction won the Best Picture Oscar in
1994.
Incredulously, Forrest Gump won this honor. There is no reasonable
explanation for this fiasco.Finally, should you decide to see it, rent it or see it on pay cable.
Like
most of the movies above, Ted Turner seems to have cornered the market on
showing them. If you do see it on TNT, there will be a lot of missing,
crucial scenes and the commercials kind of ruin it; at least for me it
does.

******
1 April 2001
10

last summer I saw ( for the 6 time) this film again I don't know why but
I
was terribly shock by this film and today it always make me feel bizarre
. I
don't know how they do this film but it was really good. I think that
this
film is one of my favorite with the sixth sense and terminator 2 (sorry
but
it remind me my teenage) .

******
17 March 2001
10
This is the best movie i have ever seen, because of the purity of the
scenario and the stresses. The film emphasizes nearly all good and bad
characteristics of the human in a way that everybody can understand and
taste.
I felt myself like i was there and the camera was my
eyes.Everbody who wants to learn more about the value of the virtues
he/she house , must see this film before he or she dies.

******
16 March 2001
10

There is not much to say about this movie. Shawshank has it all. Good
characters, story, and acting. It is not my favorite movie, but is probably
the greatest movie ever made. Watching this movie made me think what life is
really like. I was moved by every minute of the movie and when it was
done.... I almost thought it was real life.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are brilliant. You couldn't ask for anyone
better for the part. Their acting in this movie made you cry and changed the
turn for the movie industry. This movie is worth every second, so don't miss "The Shawshank
Redemption".

******
13 March 2001
10

I'm always simply out of words after watching this film. The score, the
actors, the plot, everything just strikes me. I've seen this on DVD about
five times now and it hasn't
lost one bit of it's glory. If you haven't seen this film, see it now. If
you saw it and didn't like it, maybe you should give it another chance.I remember seeing it from TV when I was about 12 or 13. I Didn't really have
any opinions about it then. It was good, but nothing special. I decided to
buy the DVD anyway and after watching it 5 years later I finally got more
deeper into the movie.This is one of the best, if not best movie ever made. And I mean
it.

******
11 March 2001
10

I'm not much of a film critic so ill only write a few lines.This film is amazing, the script is by far the best ever, the story-line
is
so original. The acting is done superbly especially Morgan Freeman. The
characters are really written well, and the film will keep you guessing
about what is going to happen next. The ending is truly
amazing!
If you have not seen this film yet, SEE IT!10/10

******
10 March 2001
10

Hello, my name is Ed and I would like to say that at first this movie
looked
kind of stupid when I was at Block Buster but I remembered that at IMDB it
got a 9.0 rating and is the 2nd best movie of all time so I rented it.
When
I got home I watched it and I was amazed by it. This movie is incredible.
The movie is not really about prison but about people and the hardships
they
face and endure. While I was watching it there were several parts of the
movie where you think it is over but there is realy more to see which was
great because you don't want this movie to end. The story unfolds and more
stuff is going on in the movie then you think. My advice for anyone who
wants to see the greatest movie ever is to go out and either rent this
movie
or buy it. It is worth it. You wont get sick of this
masterpiece.

******
9 March 2001
10

I've read a number of the other user comments on this movie, and I was
glad
to see that every one of them regarded the movie as one of the best
they've
ever seen.  The fact that 100% of the reviews I saw all rated this movie
as
somewhere beyond excellent says it all.  I like all sorts of films, from
serious to goofy comedies, but my list of the best films of the last 15 or
so years includes the heavy hitters like Rain Man, Unforgiven, Jerry
Maguire, Good Will Hunting, Murder In The First (because of Kevin Bacon's
awe-inspiring performance) and Saving Private Ryan, which are all fabulous
movies.  But Shawshank tops them all by a good margin.  It is, without a
doubt, that good.I'm also an avid reader, one of those who thinks that the book almost
always
far outshines the movie, no matter how good the movie.  And Shawshank is
one
of my favorite stories by my favorite author, but this movie takes the
story
to a completely new level.  I've never encountered another written or
filmed
work that better shows the 'triumph of the spirit' theme.There are a number of deeply moving scenes in the movie, but for me, the
climax of the movie, the point where everything comes together, is when
Morgan Freeman's character is released from prison and contemplating
killing
himself.  He finally comes to understand (or maybe just to accept)
something
that Tim Robbins' character told him earlier, and he says, "Get busy
living... or get busy dying. That's goddamn right."  This line starts a
sequence that leads up to what, in my opinion, is the most perfect ending
ever filmed.Every aspect of this movie is of the highest caliber.  The script is
excellent, the acting of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins is incredible, the
musical score is flawless, and the direction is obviously superb.  What's
even more incredible is that this was Frank Darabont's first feature
film -
and he surely rose above to make this one.  Forrest Gump won the Oscars it
did because of its sentimentality and the nostalgic look at American
history.  It did NOT win because it was the best picture of that year.  I
had no problem with Tom Hanks winning the best actor award, but Shawshank
should have won every other award it was nominated for.  I though Forrest
Gump was excellent, but Shawshank was so much better that its getting beat
out for best picture is on a par with Shakespeare In Love beating Saving
Private Ryan.Well, I'll get off my soap box now.  I would have no problem going on with
how moving and beautifully-done this movie is, but I think you probably
get
the point by now.

******
9 March 2001
10

This film was honestly able to make me laugh, and cry. It moved me
from start to finish. I have seen several films in my lifetime, and I have
given this film the distinct honor of my favorite, and the best film of
all
time. It shows the character development and friendship between inmates of
several years. Everyone should see this film, because It is incredible.
The
scene where they are drinking beers never fails to make me cry or at least
get teary-eyed.

******
8 March 2001
10

Not exactly a movie you would think to have Stephen King in the credits,
which gives the film a sense of irony. When watching the film, one
experiences many emotions, and though not enough to make most people cry,
enough to leave you reeling. Our hero Andy (Tim Robbins)quite frankly goes
through a lot, but is steered toward the right direction because of his
undying hope of getting out. Andy also leads fellow inmate Red (Morgan
Freeman) "to the light", and teaches us all how important hope is to have
within us. I guess another good point is just how many films can you name
that have happy endings, and aren't in any way at least slightly corny?


******
6 March 2001
10

Shawshank Redemption is one of those few movies which can only be made
when
all things come together. Narrative, Scenario pacing, cinematography,
performance and directing are only some of the main elements that make for
a
great movie when all are in balance to serve the main purpose which is the
storytelling. But sometimes GOD says let there be that moment when every
other aspect, of the greatest art form in cinema history, swells the other
up to make magic happen on and behind the white screen!There is no need to elaborate on Shawshank Redemption because those whom
have witnessed it knows it's power and grandeur in appearance.For those whom haven't crossed paths with Shawshank Redemption yet should
by
all means necesary make it a lifes effort to rent and buy this Movie.
Before
you leave this place you once knew as Mother Earth you need to have
experienced one of the greater feelings in cinema history!I hope I myself as a Filmmaker will come across a breathtaking story like
this to film, there is simply no greater reward to a filmmaker than to
have
directed a Movie like this.In closing I will add, for those running off to the store looking for
Shawshank Redemption, look up these next films for they will change your
life for they have changed mine and made me become a filmmaker.It's a wonderful life (Frank Capra), Ben Hur (William Wyler), Ran (Akira
Kurosawa) and M (Fritz Lang).There are many other great movies but for starters just start with these
cause you'll be watching these a many a times.


******
5 March 2001
10

I first saw this masterpiece two years ago and since then it has been on my
favourite movie list.  This is one of those movies that once you see it you
can't stop watching it.  It has a very very good story line. The only thing
that is bad about this movie is that most people have to see it from the
beginning to like it and really appreciate it.

******
3 March 2001
10

I love this movie I guess that I have seen it over ten times,I don't know what makes this movie good, but I must recommend
it.
When I was in the Video store I was very sceptical about it but that
changed 10 minutes after I started the film.
I hope you will enjoy it as much as I have.

******
3 March 2001
10

The best film I've ever seen.  As soon as I got a DVD player I made sure
this was among my first purchases.  I watched it 3 times that week and a
several more times in the following few months.
If you haven't seen this film yet, rent it today.  Better yet, buy it,
because you'll definitely want to see it more than once!

******
1 March 2001
10

There is no movie that I love more than The Shawshank Redemption. I have
seen the movie at least 10 times, and it never ceases to amaze me how well
it is performed. The plot line is one of the best that I have seen in a
long
time, and Tim Robbins plays his character as if he were living in that
life.
The most amazing thing happened after I watched this movie: I started to
regard everyone with the same "look inside of me instead of at me" view,
and
have lately even started to think "innocent until PROVEN guilty" and not
"he
looks guilty so he must be." If you have not seen this movie, you are
missing out on an extremely well written and performed piece of art. I
highly reccomend it. In fact, I urge anyone who has not seen it to rent it
tonight.

******
28 February 2001
9

This movie is great.   It combines a heart touching story with great
actors.
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are spectacular along with a great
supporting crew.  The movie also depicted the book in a very accurate way.
I highly recommend this movie.

******
28 February 2001
10

This is one of the really great movies. Excellent casting. The actors
worked
together to form an exceptional cast. Telling the story through the eyes
of
another inmate added a pleasurable twist to the movie. Definitely one of
the
core films of any video library. 

******
24 February 2001
10

First and foremost , the shawshank redemption is a brilliant piece of
film-making.
It follows the story of andy dufresne(an excellent tim robbins) and his
struggle to maintain hope inside a maximum secruity prison.It also focuses
on his friendship with the prison"fixer" red(beautifully portrayed by
morgan
freeman).
It has such an intelligent script that makes the film`s final
appeal
the indefinable quality of "feel good".
Frank darabont must be wondering what he has to do to win an oscar now
as he has also made the excellent "green mile".
I dont really want to say too much about the story as i will let you
discover the twist and turns that happen in shawshank prison.But i will
say
something , i was totally gobsmacked by the extraordinary twist in the
tale.
If you have not yet seen the film , forget about renting it , GO BUY IT
ON VIDEO AND DVD NOW and enjoy 137 minutes of the greatest film ever
made.


******
22 February 2001
10

I saw Shawshank quite a few years ago now. However, upon visiting the IMDB
Top 250 list and finding it two from the top, I was not surprised. Despite
the fact that I saw the movie is 1996 or 1997, I can still remember some of
the poignant momments in the film and how the entire film made me feel
(heartfelt and happy!).Overall, I think Shawshank was an absoloutely amazing film. It showcases
great performances from both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, and also
demonstrates the quality of writing that people should expect from somebody
like Steven King.

******
20 February 2001
10
The Shawshank Redemption is by FAR my favorite movie. It is the touchstone
or benchmark I judge all other movies by. It has everything I love about
movies and nothing that I usually hate. This is the only movie I think I
can
give a rating of 10.

******
18 February 2001
10

"The Shawshank Redemption" is the best film from a Stephen King story.
The
best by far.  This film fits together so intricately and the end seems
almost impossible.  It's what everyone wants, of course, but it just
doesn't
seem possible.  This movie could not be more perfectly cast, and the
direction is impeccable.  The story draws you in.  This movie and "The
Green
Mile" are alike in the sense that they capture your attention for the
entire
film.  These films are powerful and well-made.  "The Shawshank Redemption"
sits on another level.  It is a film that will not grow old.  It will stay
fresh and fulfilling as the years go by.  This is a must-see film.  To go
without seeing this movie is quite a loss.  Do yourself a favor and see
this
quality flick!

******
15 February 2001
10

A must see if you're even wondering. This will also become one of your
favorites. Great characters, acting, screenplay, everything. They did a
great job of getting Kings book to the screen. One of the best and most
memorable endings in movie history. Sit back, dim lights, shut off phone,
and enjoy!

******
10 February 2001
10

I have seen many movies in my day and none top The Shawshank Redemption.
Tim Robins and Morgan Freeman are spectacular.  The story is told from a
narration given by Freeman who plays the character
"Red", a prisoner who befriends Tim Robins character Andy Dufrain.  It is a
tremendous story of human triumph.  As the movie rises to an incredible
climax you will find yourself pumping your fist in the air in delight.
This
is a movie I never get tired of watching again and again and each time I
feel delighted.  A true masterpiece!

******
10 February 2001
10

Tens of thousands of IMDB users couldn't be wrong, this movie REALLY IS THE
BEST. I am an avid movie watcher, and I LOVE this movie. I rate it as a 20
out of a possible 10.The scene on the beach at the end is the best, it makes me cry every
time!Make sure you own it!

******
6 February 2001
10

I think there is no need for me come up with words of praise, 'cos they've
already been said in comments before mine! But the interesting thing is
that
Shawshank Redemption never won any thing at the 1994 Academy Awards, least
of all Best Picture.
Look at the competition... Forrest Gump, Quiz Show, Pulp Fiction, and (for
Heaven's Sake) 4 Weddings and a Funeral!  If I do recall correctly, the
buzz
at that time was that the only *real* contenders were Pulp and Forrest.
Shawshank never figured in the race. FYI, Forrest won it, and he's at #169
in the IMDb 250.Anyway, my opinion is that every once in a long while, you get ordinary
people who have had minimal success on their own, come together and make an
almost perfect movie. This is it. I doubt that anyone of the people who
made
this film will ever be able to reach the heights they did with Shawshank.
Some have tried, but failed (like the director -> Green
Mile).Embrace this film, and let it enrich your being.


******
3 February 2001
10

This is my favourite movie of all time. I saw it when it was first shown in
German free-TV. I was gripped from the beginning because the story was told
in the Stephen King-type epic slowness with always something happening.
Then, about 100 minutes into the film, there was THE scene. Those who have
seen the movie will know which one I mean. It was like a slap in the face
but it didn't hurt. It was just inspiration. The feeling decreased very
slowly because there were other, smaller slaps following. Since then, this
has been my favourite film and I haven't seen any better. I wasn't surprised
that it was nominated for seven Oscars!But when I looked it up in the IMDb I was surprised that it's among the top
ten and so popular because I hadn't heard anything about it before. It was
not successful at all in Europe. All the happier I was because I felt
confirmed in my enthusiasm. I mean, I have to admit that the main reason for
choosing this as my favourite was the finesse of the most satisfying
punchline` in movie history. I like characters who are unbreakable because
of their mental power. Yes, it's definitely a movie about hope. But it would
be unfair to forget about all the other elements:Morgan Freeman is one of the most mature actors in the world. He always
chooses roles with quality. And Tim Robbins is a very changeable actor: Just
think about Cadillac Man` or Bull Durham` and the characters he played
there. But also all the minor characters are described very precisely and
integrated in the plot. It's not just a couple of episodes: it's one huge,
magnificent story.Roger Deakins, the favourite cinematographer of (my favourite directors)
Joel & Ethan Coen helps to make it not just an epic, also a cinematic
masterpiece. And Frank Darabont is a fascinating director because he
concentrates on the story and doesn't try to push himself to the fore by any
facilities in directing, except THE scene I already mentioned. All of the
seven Oscars should have been won by The Shawshank Redemption`. With all
due respect for Forrest Gump`.


******
3 February 2001
10

I consider myself an avid movie-watcher with mostly mainstream choices for
my favorite movies.  One of my favorite genres is inspirational movies
like
Rudy, Contact, and October Sky.  Tops on my list of any genre is The
Shawshank Redemption.  One of the driving factors that it tops my list is
because, like everyone else, I watched the movie on video with absolutely
no
expectations.  At the time I had not seen a review, trailer, commercial,
or
even the cover of the video box for the movie.  My wife went to the video
store for me to rent it only because I heard it got nominated for an
Academy
Award for Best Picture.  We popped the movie in around 11:00 p.m.,
thinking
we will fall asleep during the movie.  Well, two hours later, the only way
we could describe the movie would be inspirational.  After the movie, I
started to notice the commercials, the posters, and the box cover all gave
references to the crucial twist at the end.  I think if I saw any of these
things before I watched the movie then I would have put 2 and 2 together
and
it would have made the movie less enjoyable. Word of mouth is the reason
why
it has been such a hit on video, and in the future will be the reason it
will be considered on of the greatest movies of all time.

******
3 February 2001
10

One of the best movies made. It also provides a beautiful analogy for a
common (mis)management practice.  See this movie and put your job in
perspective. We are all Andy, being used by our bosses to advance
themselves, shown off to their friends, etc. but never really given any
actual credit, and held in place by those same bosses, lest they lose the
status that keeping us under them provides...Or you can just see it because it's good. Tim Robbins is great, Morgan
Freeman is great.

******
2 February 2001
10

  The Shawshank Redemption is a movie is film-making at it's best.  It
features superb acting, directing, and story.  Every single shot in this
movie was a good one, the camera worked wonders that the average eye
disregards as they focus on the beauty of the film.  This is the story of a falsely convicted man, and his struggle for
freedom.  Beyond the already great fact that it was a prison movie set in
the 40's through late 60's, it was written by Stephen King, one of the
greatest fictional writers of the late 20th centruy.  The best part about
prison movies is the fact that it's always moving, always developing, never
boring.  There's just something about prison movies that make you feel at
home, as odd as that sounds.  And plus, the movie was full of great
narration and dialouge, full prison similes that were so eloquent, you know
only Stephen King could have written them.  Shawshank is the kind of movie
you could watch over and over again and never get sick of, like American
Beauty or One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest.     The movie just simply is perfect by every standard that we set.  Do
yourself a favor and see this movie.

******
29 January 2001
10

It's unbelievable -- I'm dumbfounded.  As of this writing, Shawshank
Redemption is #2 in the top 250 films in the IMDB (I'm sure "The Godfather"
still holds the #1 spot).  That is simply incredible for a film released
seven years ago, absolutely mindblowing.  This movie captured more than just
a generation, it captured the hearts and minds of the global moviegoing
public, and apparently will not let go.Think of the hundreds of films released since 1994... and realize that
"Shawshank Redemption" holds the #2 spot... on the world's most popular film
site -- truly the worldwide *people's* democratic vote!If you still haven't seen it, you owe it to yourself.  With perhaps the most
cathartic, satisfying ending in film history, superb, sharply-defined
characters and plot, plot, plot... this is the film to see if you love
movies, and even if you hate movies.  If you see only one movie in your
lifetime, this may be the one to see (you can read 'The Godfather', which in
my opinion is much better in book format).A work of art that is not going to go away, "Shawshank Redemption" is the
best prison movie ever released and one of the greatest films of all
time.

******
29 January 2001
10

I loved every moment and line from this this movie  right from the opening
scene to the end credits.the movie is about andy dufresne a man convicted
of
murder who is put in shawshank state prison.He strikes up a friendship
with
the prison fixer red.After having a rough time in the prison he manages to
make it in prison becoming very successful with the library and with the
guards and the warden.There is the an arrival of a new inmate  which turns
the plot right around,leading up to the greatest ending ever seen in a
movie.i highly recommend seing this movie,in fact go see it right now!. I
promise you will love it(im not lying!).thankyou, now go watch
it!.

******
25 January 2001
10

In people's descriptions of films, the terms "best", "favorite", "great",
"a
classic" and the like often get bandied about with no real meaning. I've
heard someone describing ten different movies, and refer to all ten as the
best movies he'd ever seen, all within the span of five
minutes.But with The Shawshank Redemption, those words most definately have
meaning.
This movie is, quite simply, the single most masterful film I have ever
seen. It is completely and utterly amazing, and I have never seen a movie
that has surpassed it. Others have come close, but none can match the
sheer
power of The Shawshank Redemption. Words simply don't do justice to the
emotions I feel each time I watch this film, and I am left in awe of how
profound it is.To anyone who has not seen this flawless gem, you are missing out on the
single greatest film ever made. Film is Art, and The Shawshank Redemption
is
the film equivalent of a DaVinci, a Michaelangelo, or a Rembrant. It is
simply amazing.

******
21 January 2001
9

Last night i saw this movie for the second time and i enjoyed it as much as
the first, it is definetely one of my favorites.Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is wrongly accused for the murder of his wife
and her lover, and sentenced to 2 life-time penalties in jail. After some
difficult years, he gets used with his inmate life, but doesn't give up the
hope of being free again. All this with the help of his best friend, Red
(Morgan Freeman).The movie is brilliantly directed, brilliantly written and brilliantly
played. Darabont makes a great debut as director with a movie of a quality
that he probably will not be able to equal in the rest of his career. And
when you think that the writing credits belong to the master of horror
himself, Stephen King, you definetely can be only surprised. Stephen managed
to write something else than his fabulous horrors. A touching sensitive
drama about friendship, honesty, injustice, and more than everything else,
about hope.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are both great in their roles. They manage to
bring a certain depth to their characters, and these aren't easy roles at
all. But they come to the end with success and they deserve all the praises
in the world for their performances.All in all this movie is a must for all the movie fans out there. If you
consider yourself a movie lover than missing this one would be a crime. A
crime you'd be fairly accused of. Vote: almost 10, out of 10.

******
20 January 2001
9

The Shawshank Redemption is the type of film which has divided its audience
into two categories: those who loved it, and those who don't care for it. 
There is rarely anything between.  Flawless acting, passionate direction,
and a memorable score have made the film a powerful cinematic experience,
and at times, it can be thought provoking.  It never lacks in pace, there is
always a steady rhythm to the film.  The Shawshank Redemption is a modern
masterpiece.Rating: 10

******
19 January 2001
10

one that will stay at the top of my list for a very very long
time.
i've watched this movie ever and over again and i still am amazed by how
good the movie is.
it's a very enlightening movie that will make you think about many things
about your life and what have you done in live.
i guess every one of you have watched this excellent peace of art, so i
guess you have the same feeling as i have right now.
too bad this awesome movie do not enter my country in indonesia, so not
many
people can appreciate the sheer quality of shawshank redemption.a very touching movie indeed.

******
16 January 2001
10

This is probably my favorite right after bronx tale. I like everything
about
it. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are very good in this. Frank Darabont
did
a very good job on the screenplay.
Alot of people didnt want to see it because the name didnt sound too
interesting. TRUST ME...IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THIS MOVIE GO OUT AND RENT IT
NOW! You wont regret it

******
14 January 2001
10

This movie is so far the best American film I have ever seen. I am
surprised
it didn't receive the Academy Award for Best Picture and Best Director.
The
story is touching and the actors delivered excellent performance. It
captured the subtle human emotions one expressed when he faced a sudden
traumatic misfortune in life and demonstrated how he kept hope and faith
when he spent years of difficult life in prison. It also has a good
portrait
of true friendship between the two main characters in the movie (Tim
Robins
and Morgan Freeman). I am sure I will own a DVD for this film and will
watch
it again and again over the years as every time I watched it, it reminded
me
of the courage, hope and faith one should have when faced with obstacles
in
life.
I can't say enough good thing about this film. If you haven't watched it
yet, I highly highly recommend it and you won't be disappointed.


******
12 January 2001
10

  "The Shawshank Redemption" is without a doubt one of the best films of the
90's and one of the best prison dramas of all time.   "The Shawshank Redemption" can go head to head with any great movie of the
90's and probably win. The plot is airtight with only one or two mistakes
through the whole film, not a lot of films could say the with even the likes
of Forrest Gump, Titanic and Unforgiven have mistakes in them. One thing
that Darabont does better than any director i've seen in a long time is pace
every scene perfectly.  Another great thing about this film is the pitch perfect cast. Tim Robbins
puts in the best performance of his career, even topping his role in "The
Player" and Morgan Freeman is outstanding as "Red" Redding and old tymer who
knows everything and has seen everything about jail. Bob Gunton is also
brilliant as the evil sheriff putting in his best performance. But the most
underrated performance in my opinion is the one put in by James Whitmore as
"Brooks".  Eventhough "The Shawshank Redemption" may seem like a tear jerker or like
a tragic drama by the end you will have a smile on your face . I won't ruin
it for you but the ending is one of the best I have ever seen, only rivaled
by the unexpected twist in "The Usual Suspects". So if you want to feel some
emotion, be surprised and enlightened or just plainly watch a great movie
rent "The Shawshank Redemption".
10/10 Near Perfect Movie 


******
12 January 2001
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of the wisest and most touching films I
have
ever seen.  It tells the tale of the friendship between two convicted
murderers: Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) and "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman).
Many things make this a good film: its genuine depiction of prison life,
the
wonderful performances from Robbins and Freeman, the great music from
Thomas
Newman.  For all of these qualities, The Shawshank Redemption is worth
seeing.What makes the film great for me, though, is the way that in its depiction
of prison life, the film becomes an existential display of how most of us
live our own lives.  ***SPOILER AHEAD***  Throughout the film, we are
confronted by how people choose to accept their freedom.  Brooks, the old
librarian, who has been in prison for almost his entire life, becomes
scared
of the freedom he enjoys, and can not take it.  The same fate almost
befalls
Red, but his redemption comes as he is able to accept the unpredictability
of his life, and draw inspiration from Andy.  The film rings absolutely
true, I know many people who are too afraid to chase after their own
dreams,
and would rather stay in a mundane yet predictable and secure job.  "Prison
life consists of routine, and then more routine," Red says in the course of
the film.  So, I imagine, do many people's lives.  The Shawshank Redemption
is about breaking away from the routine, taking risks, and going after your
dreams without compromise.  

******
12 January 2001
10

A great film. Period. Those of you who haven't watched it yet, make sure
to
do so. Don't listen to those who say it isn't a great movie - obviously
most
of the rest of the world does think it was an absolute great
movie.
Watch it and judge for yourselves.

******
10 January 2001
10

The Shawshank redemption is simply excellent! a story that goes right to
your heart and goes really deep in to the soul, and it shows us that hope
does matter, without hope, we have nothing to go for.Wonderful acting by the modern legend Morgan Freeman and Tim
Robbins
the story is brilliantly told, and the movies should be one second shorter
and not one second longer, Stephen King and Frank Darabont really knows
what
to do to keep the story fresh all the way!you should definitly get this movie!!

******
9 January 2001
10

The Shawshank Redemption affords us the opportunity to experience the
unique
magic of hope, ironically, found in a setting not conducive of such hope:
a
prison.Simply put, this transcendent film explores the human condition ranging
from
blinding rage and sinister avarice to hopeful realism and utter
disenchantment.Played by a selection of actors supplying a wealth of talent to the film,
the supporting characters, though differing on the surface, share the one
trait of disillusionment, either through glib, passive resignation or
fiery,
active disgust.But the principal character, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), does not share
this disenchantment, at least not totally. He clings to hope and basic
transcendental principles while facing adversity after adversity. Though
even Andy becomes shaken from time to time as he is pummeled by the events
of life, either induced by the nefarious calculation or hopeless despair
of
others, he continues with the battle.Andy is the consummate individual, disallowing what others say to him,
invalidating what others do to him, and ultimately defying what would
appear
to be reality itself in what seems to be a simple effort, primarily, to
better his life and, secondarily, to shine the light of hope into the
lives
of those around him. Indeed, though it would seem that the fates
occasionally step in and lend Andy a hand, the awe-inspiring potential for
hope must have been intrinsic and innate. And the fact remains that those
same fates damned him in the first place. But perhaps, it was all part of
the journey...Well, enough of my thoughts! See for yourself--I easily rate this film as
a
ten. :-)


******
8 January 2001
10

Shawshank is a story about a man who is wrongly convicted for the murder
of
his wife and her lover.  He finds himself in the pits of hell or what is
commonly known as Shawshank Prison.  There he learns about the power of
truth and friendship as he changes the hearts of those he knows and lives
with.  This story is not about the problems of our justice or prison
systems
and the horrors that prisoners face, not only from their fellow inmates
but
also from those there to "manage" them; rather this story relays the close
bond that people form in tough situations and how our will to survive is
not
just about whether or not we live but how we live.  To quote William
Wallace
from Braveheart, "every man dies not every man lives."  This is the story
about choosing to live and live with dignity and friendship in the face of
all hardships.  Highly Recommended

******
8 January 2001
10

The movie was filled with inspiration and hope.  Great script and acting
by
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freemen.  I can never get tired of watching this
amazing film.  An amazing well written screen play and camera shots too.
I
recommend everybody to see this film!

******
5 January 2001
10

Superb acting and dialogue paint this moving tale of hope and friendship.
With beautiful cinematography, complex characters, and witty yet poetic
dialogue, the Shawshank Redemption is movie art at its finest. I find
myself
so enraptured by it, that I am unable to leave until the movie is
complete... and I've seen it about 100 times. This is not a movie to watch
while doing something else.

******
5 January 2001
10

This movie has everything - hope and dreams, twists and humor, horror and
happiness, success and failure. It is so many stories to so many people. I
have seen all but the first 10 minutes 100 times, since every time I am
surfing the cable channels and see it I stop and watch it, usually until
the
end. A fantastic story.

******
3 January 2001
10
The Shawshank Redemption is the best film i have ever seen. The story by
itself is just awesome, and the actors in this film are really
superb
It is not right that the godfather stands before this film.Shawshank Redemption should be at first place!!!!

******
26 December 2000
10

Words are far too poor to embrace the magic of this film. This movie along
with the brilliance of Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins and the plot twists and
spirit created by the master Stephen King is a masterpiece. I have never
felt such a mixture of emotions from one film. And this film certainly
delivers the kind of electricity that touches one's soul.


******
23 December 2000
10

This is simply the definitive American film about the endurance of the human
spirit.A wrongly convicted man spends twenty years in a brutal prison, never
losing his hope for freedom. A beautifully written and directed film by
frank Darabont.A true representation of what the art of film can be elevated
to. One of the greatest films ever made. 

******
21 December 2000
10

Sometimes, when you see a film, it touches you in such a way that you
find
it difficult to describe. 'Shawshank Redemption', is one such
film.
Everything is just class. Freeman should have had an Oscar for his
performance as 'Red', and I find it amazing that 'Gump' beat it to best
film. Don't get me wrong, 'Gump' is a good film, but in my humble opinion
the
only film that can come close to this is 'the Godfather'. The ending to
the
film is just incredible, one of the few times that I have ever almost
cried
during a film.
I won't give anymore away about the film. Just go and see it.NOW.I mean
turn off your computer and get a video or DVD of it by any means possible.
I
agree that this is one of the GREATEST films ever.

******
21 December 2000
10

Every so often, I feel cinematic achievement reaches a new zenith...a
point
where I feel (albeit erroneously) that the bar of accomplishment can rise
no
more. Yet, as said, I am eventually mistaken, mainly due to remarkable
stories of profound creative intensity. These are the creations that
highlight vital essences of life and society.The Shawshank Redemption is truly an element of such a category.The Stephen King novella, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, is a
relatively brief tale, a section of a larger book called 4 Seasons. Still,
it is brilliantly adapted as a feature-length motion picture, with no
flaws
or injustices therein.If you are wondering why it is such a good movie, then you only need to
think about one word: freedom. Think about what it means, and how easy may
be to take for granted in today's liberated world. Set in the hardened
American past, The Shawshank Redemption teaches us a valuable lesson about
the fickle nature of sovereignty, and the inevitable boundaries that
restrict us along the path of life. Still, despite the misery of
indeterminate and forceful detainment, a love of life is found.As such, this film presents a quest like no other. The characters seek to
transcend their enslavement in a vile microcosm of dubious honesty and ill
will, cherishing the subtle scents of freedom that waft through the senses
on a very limited basis. After seeing this film, you'll never look at a
bottle of beer or an opera record the same way: when you have nothing
else,
such frivolities are your only ties to freedom. Still, the intelligent
social analysis does not end at this basic level. Rather, it continues by
showing the affects of being reintroduced to reality, and the ensuing
overdose of true liberty...Nevertheless, as clear-cut as the overall theme may seem, a mark of
cunning
snakes through it...fervent...unexpected...The result will knock you out of your seat. See for yourself.
10/10


******
20 December 2000
7

Excellent, powerful drama about two mens' friendship and escape from
Shawshank prison.  Robbins and Freeman excel in perfect roles.  Sharp
script
and touching subplots add to this enduring film.  Freeman's narration
illuminates beauty and power of Stephen King short story upon which it is
based.  Directed by Frank Darabont ("The Green Mile").

******
15 December 2000
10

I had never heard of this movie.I missed it when it came out in
theatres.But
fortunately it was
my destiny not to miss it.It is amazing!It has absolutely no "leaks",no
parts in the plotline where
you say "hey,something's wrong here".Freeman and Robbins give an excellent
performance.
It is one of the very few Hollywood movies I've seen,which actually
contains
large quantities
of drama and feeling.Don't miss this movie,cause if you do you've lost one
of the best experiences
of your life

******
14 December 2000
10

SPOILER ALERT
This movie--as I just watched it for, say, the 100th time this morning--is
just incredible.  It gives me shudders everytime I watch it.  My favorite
part is when the jerk realizes how tim robbins gets out.  What mastery!  I
then felt true shudders when he scrambles out of the sewage pipe and rips
off his shirt.  I can only imagine being thrown in jail, innocently,
spending years there, and not only to be set free but get back at the
jerk,
and have money at the end.  The movie is thought-provoking and intense
from
beginning to end.  I love Morgan Freeman too.  The movie taught me many
lessons, and reminded me that the simple flight of a bird and the blue of
an
ocean is something not to take for granted.  Freedom is definitely my
biggest priority.

******
14 December 2000
9

Hard to believe that Tim Robbins could be so good in such a serious role. As
usual, Freeman is fantastic and the supporting cast was effective. The only
imperfection to this great film is that it runs about 15 minutes too long.
Not to say that the last several scenes were unnecessary, but certainly
dragged, after the climax of the film had been achieved. Nonetheless, a
great movie with a brilliant twist.

******
2 December 2000
10

i read novels ...a lot..& i have never come across a movie (based on a
novel)which could even equal the book version ...that is...until this
movie
came along. My God! what a movie..i dare even say that it was better than
the book...novellette actually.Hats off to the movie makers.
Andy is a classic case of 'never judge a book by it's color'.
Morgan freeman in his best ever role...he can really play those
all-knowing-incharge types.
When i got to know how Andy escaped,...it was the shocker of a life
time.Not
even in my wildest dreams could i have done what Andy had done to
escape.
The warden was thoroughly chilling with his alum effected
mouth.
'the sisters' were a real good throw-in...spice to the
brew.
A thoroughly enjoyable movie with more turns than a twister.
Watch this one first, then watch something else.

******
1 December 2000
10

What a fantastic movie!  Tim Robbins gave the best performance I have ever
seen by an actor and Morgan Freeman was excellent, also.  There are some
unbelievably moving scenes in this film. I foolishly passed it by at the
theater and at the video store.  When I saw it on cable for the first
time,
I realized it was a truly special movie.  Why?  I could not put my finger
on
it until I read the summary on the video box in the store.  It really is a
triumph of the human spirt with a tremendously satisfying ending.  This is
one of the best movies I have ever seen and it will be added to my
collection this Christmas!   

******
28 November 2000
10

  This masterpiece belongs in the company of The Godfather, and other films
often mentioned reverently as the best of all time. I am not going to
compare this film to the other finest made, as that is often difficult to
do, how does one quantify what is the best, without shortchanging other
films. Simply put, this is a timeless story, which encompasses the best
elements of all films, suspense, horror, comedy, tragedy, and puts them
together in a seamless tapestry, as rich and colorful as life itself.
Superlatives fail to illustrate the quality of this work, as complete and
satisfying a film that has ever been made.

******
24 November 2000
10

As i'm keen on prison based movies, i thought i'd check the film out.
After
seeing it about 20 times, i have come to the conclusion that this is my
favorite film...ever!As you see the film more and more times, you notice things you didn't
before, ie: clues to the ending are given (Red saying Andy's dreams were
"s****y pipe dreams", the way in which Andy escapes).I did an essay for Media Studies, and I had to watch the film in great
detail, and that made me like the film even more because you get to
understand the characters more and understand their actions and
reasonings.If you haven't seen the fillm then I strongly suggest you watch it because
it's GREAT!p.s read the 'goofs' on this film because they're really
interesting!!

******
10 November 2000
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of those films which will stick with you for
the rest of your life. You'll always remember it, think of it fondly, and
smile when you think of the best parts of the film. Many films come and go
in your memory (will you honestly look back at a film like Armageddon and
think of it in the same light? I hope not), but this is one which has become
great, and will become greater with time.Everyone knows the story, so I will save time relating that to you, but I
will say that the story has many levels to it, which are not as obvious to
some viewers. The multitude of characters which the story gives us all have
meaning and consequences to the two central characters, Andy and Red. (Think
about the references to/theme of birds). All the characters are a pleasure
to watch, and come to life by the actors. However, the actors inhabit their
roles so well, its hard to see them in different roles now.Tim Robbins was unfortunate not to be nominated for any other award than the
screen actors guild award, because he brought such weight and balance to the
film, where Morgan Freeman had the slightly more showy role, bringing
dignity and honesty to it. I think any nomination or award for either of the
actors should have been shared.Frank Darabont is a talented director who has a good eye for what looks good
on screen, has a way with his actors to produce the best out of them,
understands how to tell a good story, and is likely to produce fine pieces
of work in the future.I have always loved this film, and the story is just one which warms the
heart and blood just thinking about it.

******
5 November 2000
9

This movie is the bomb!!  Great Movie!!  I don't have enough thumbs to
recommend the Shawshank!!  Great actors in a great story.  This is a great
movie to sit back with your girlfriend and just chill out.  It's just
superb.  A must have in anyone's video collection!!

******
2 November 2000
10

There's not much left to say about this film. Saw it last night for about
the fifth time and I am still as impressed as I was seeing it the first
time
in cinema. Intelligent, moving, funny, and sad, this movie is just
perfect.
Freeman and Robbins are brilliant, so are the supporting characters. Too
bad
that there are not many more films like this one. A must see for
everyone!

******
29 October 2000
8

I actually watched last year's 'The Green Mile' before I got round to
seeing
this.  And in many respects I'm glad.  This film is better constructed,
has
a far more powerful script, and, most tellingly, a far more belivable
story
(the Green Mile dabbles in the supernatural and improbable).  What makes
this movie so good is that it really deals with the psyche and emotions of
humanity, and isn't scared to go into detail with these emotions, even if
it
means that the plot is sidetracked for a few minutes.  The male bonding
throughout the film is touching, and (although sentimental) completely
believable.  The twist, although not quite as surprising as the 'Usual
Suspects', adds a little bit extra to a plot that before was pretty much
at
the mercy of Morgan Freeman's narrative, which, while well delivered, all
gets a bit similar after a while.
I think the biggest achievement here is, apart from the bread and
butter
stuff like 'solid acting', 'sensitive direction', and 'breathtaking
photography', is just how well the movie shows its time scale.  The story
is
based over 20 years, charting the 'prison career' of an innocent
man,
and apart from the greying of Freeman's hair, it also features a lot of
nostalgic conversations.  Two tragedies among the group of friends that we
watch also give a sense of perspective.  At the centre though, are
Freeman's
brief meetings with the prison board, asking for a release every ten
years.
As he delivers the most moving part of the film- his third speech to this
board, I guarantee you will be weeping buckets.  The first movie I ever
watched that meant so well as to be 'beyond criticism' was 'Schindler's
List'. This is the second. 

******
27 October 2000
10

After seeing this movie again there isn't any words that I can think of to
adequately describe what a truly great movie the Shawshank Redemption
represents.  Every human emotion was perfectly portrayed right down to the
coldness of the Shawshank's concrete and steel.  This is Morgan Freeman's
best movie to date and likely Tim Robbins best movie ever.  The cast's
acting job is top notch.  The period and setting, perfect. Thomas Newman's
music score, perfect.  Supporting cast, perfect.  I think that this is the
only movie that I can not think of one single thing that would improve it.
Nothing.  Owning this movie would be the crown jewel in anyone's
collection.If you haven't seen this movie stop reading this now and go to the nearest
video rental place, rent this movie, and come home and spend the best 2+
hours you will ever spend watching a movie. Really!  Stephen King is King.
I can't understand what this movie is only #2 on IMDB and not
#1.


******
27 October 2000
10

This movie is simply amazing. The acting is superb, especially from Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman, the direction is one of kind and the ending
sequence is so touching that you will cry.This film should have get more attention. Can't understand why it
didn't...

******
26 October 2000
10

The Shawshank Redemption is a great movie that has kept my attention from
the first to the one hundredth time that I have watched it.  This was the
first movie I had ever seen Tim Robbins in and I have like him ever since.
Not too often can I watch a movie over and over again, but this one does
it
for me.  It is a very powerful movie with many touching parts.  Great
movie
overall...if you have never seen it before, I highly recommend
it.

******
22 October 2000
10

A marvelous film that reaches in and touches your heart like no other movie
has done before. After I watched this movie I was so moved by it that I sat
there and stared at the screen after the credits rolled up. That is how
excellent this movie is. This is a movie that everyone in the universe
should see. An absolutely incredible film. An easy 10/10

******
16 October 2000
10
...that if you've never seen this movie, that you'll take the time
to watch.Even if it's from the beginning, the middle or the last 20 minutes. I watch
this movie when it's on TV. Morgan Freeman is one of the finest actors in
America, and his portrayal of Red's journey of friendship and to freedom is
touching. His words, "get busy living or get busy dying," never fail to hit
home.  It's just a good story that Frank Darabont turned into an excellent
movie. The performances are all good - Freeman deserved an Oscar. Absolutely
one of the best movies ever.

******
15 October 2000
9

To partially repeat myself, "The Shawshank Redemption" is not the greatest
film of all time.  On the other hand, it isn't standard-brand Hollywood
product either.  Instead, like "Casablanca", "Shawshank" is Hollywood
product raised to extraordinary levels through the mutual effort of
craftspeople operating at peak levels.  The acting, direction, camera work,
editing, set design, and music all contribute, but none of these carry the
film alone.  The script, however, is the one indispensable element that the
others rest upon, and it is the script upon which I want to concentrate. 
Not the plot, mind you--if you don't know already, it's a prison drama in
which many terrible and wonderful things happen.  Such stories can be told
in many ways, but I especially admired the ways director/scripter Frank
Darabont chose to convey Stephen King's original story.Examples include patterns set up early in the film, such as the pro forma
speech "Red" (Morgan Freeman) gives each time he faces the parole board, or
apparent throwaway details that come to unexpected life as the plot
thickens.  The pacing is excellent, keeping viewers interested over the
film's length (well over 23 hours) by punctuating the story's progress not
only with the incidents of brutal violence one expects from a prison film,
but also moments of unexpected grace.Finally, it's interesting to note that in the year "Pulp Fiction" received
so much hoo-rah over the ways writer/director Quentin Tarantino played with
the movie's internal time, Darabont got little credit for doing some of the
same things in "Shawshank", such as depicting the same sequence of events
from different viewpoints when approaching the film's climax.  (Not that
"Pulp Fiction" is less than brilliant, but "Shawshank"'s approach to its own
internal time was equally artful, if less flashy.)The only things I could fault this film for are being manipulative, as well
as more than a little predictable in the last 15 minutes or so.  However,
the previous 2 hours are so compelling, and set up so much emotional
momentum, that it would take a titanic (if not "Titanic") sized object to
drag the film down.There's a great deal more to be said about the ways everyone
involved--actors, set designers, musicians, etc.--does their part to bring
"Shawshank" to life, but someone else will have to say it.  Discover this
treasure for yourself.

******
9 October 2000
10

Anyone who has seen this film will understand why I cannot justify with
words.Anyone who has not seen it; I feel sorry for you.10/10

******
8 October 2000
10

I must say this is one of the most touching movies I have ever seen - and
without a doubt one of the best. Although it doesn't resemble the usual
Stephen King writings, it helps to show his diverse talent as a
writer.

******
8 October 2000
10

This film didn't win the Best Picture Oscar?  It would have been
under-appreciated even if it had won, an Oscar isn't worthy enough to be
associated with this amazing film.  They should have created a separate
award for this movie--"The Best Film Ever" award.

******
1 October 2000
10

To say that The Shawshank Redemption is an exquisite piece of film-work
doesn't even begin to scratch the surface of how this film can and will
affect those that choose to view it.  Yes, some points are brought
violently
to the surface, yet throughout
Shawshank, there is a subtlety to the relationships between all of the
characters, not just the lead roles.  I have read a copy of the original
screenplay, and although many "adjustments" were made by Frank Darabont, I
honestly believe that absolutely nothing could be added or even taken away
to improve this work in any way.  And as strange as it may seem to my
friends who ask, yes, being a woman, The Shawshank Redemption is my
favorite
film of all time.  And yes, "hope is a good thing, maybe the best of
things..."

******
30 September 2000
10

This movie is absolutely perfect.  If you have not yet seen it, you must
get
up from the computer and rush to the video store NOW.  It is a wonderfully
crafted tale of hope and the human spirit.  I love this movie, and consider
it the #1 movie of all time.  I feel sorry for you if you have not yet seen
it.

******
27 September 2000
10

This is without a doubt one of  my 5 favorite movies. Even now, a month
after I
first saw it I still think about it and repeat its maxim "Hope is a good
thing."
What can I say but that this is the beautiful made movie I have ever seen.
This movie is the most uplifting movie I have ever seen and also one of
the
smartest in its ending.
I had before seen the posters for the movie and thought that this was
going
to be another dumb movie but then TNT did me a favor and aired it on its
"New Classics" program. Plus, IMBD and several articles exposed me to the
newly found popularity of the movie and I was hooked. As I watched the
movie, I knew that this would be one my new personal classics. Its moral,
that hope is a good thing and its saying "get busy living or get busy
dying,
stil intrigue me.
The movie is amazing in its beauty. No one could have played Andy better
than Robbins and Morgan Freeman was superb in his portrayel of a great
character.
What can I say but that by the end of the movie you feel good inside. You
feel hope, just what the character feels. The movie makes you feel what
the
character feels and that is one of its best qualities.See the movie and be changed. It is definitely one of the best.


******
25 September 2000
10

The Shawshank Redemption is the best film of the 90's. And probably the most
beautiful film ever. For a long time I thought Pulp Fiction was the best of
the two, but as time goes by I've learned Shawshank is the better.This is a film that will be remembered and loved for all-time. It doesn't
matter if you see this movie today, next week or in 10 years time from now.
It will always have this effect on people it has right now. It took a while
for audiences to really appreciate this film, because they didn't understand
that "hope is a good thing", but knew that "life was like a box of
chocolates and didn't know what we're going to get" later that year."Hype is a bad thing, maybe the worst of things"The only bad thing I can think about is the dutch translation for the novel
by Stephen King which is "De Ontsnapping" and I'm NOT going to translate it
for all those who haven't seen it yet, cause it gives away the final twist.I hope more and more people will love this film. I hope films like this will
be made. I hopeRating 10/10


******
22 September 2000
9

The Shawshank Redemption is the greatest film ever made.  It is one of
those
few films where I wouldn't touch a frame, given the chance.  It is
absolutely flawless, as well as the most inspiring film ever
made.Steven King's novel is great, but what really gave life to this film is
Frank Darabont's incredible direction.  It becomes more hypnotic every time
I see it.  There is a point to every shot and angle, as well as everything
that is said and done in the story.  Everything is necessary to entertain
or
to inspire.Citizen Kane may also be perfection, but it can't inspire the viewer and
help them to connect with the characters.  Citizen Kane is a great film, a
top ten film, but it's nowhere close to this.I recommend several viewings to anyone who has never seen The Shawshank
Redemption.  You will walk away a better person every time.

******
19 September 2000
10

well...what can i say about that movie...it's just a dramatic galore..it
takes you in a side..and then pull you the hell from the other side..i
think
morgan freeman was great...i liked him much here:)))
also the music was great..it is really a 10/10 movie..

******
15 September 2000
10

I consider this film superior to Forrest Gump (the big oscar winner that
year) in almost every way possible. Granted, Forrest Gump is a good film,
but
The Shawshank Redemption is an absolutely brilliant piece of art (yes I
said
art) that, in my opinion, is one of the greatest films ever made. Judging
from the scores it got here on the IMDB, many people agreed with
me.This just prooves how ego-centric the Oscars actually are. They really
aren't about which film is the best, they're about what the simple-minded
audience wants to win. Forrest Gump made an absolute killing at the box
office, Shawshank did quite poorly. It's likely that the results at the
Oscars satisfied more people than it would have had Shawshank won, but
that's only because not many people saw it. I'd like to see you find
someone
who hasn't seen Forrest Gump.If you think this is a one time thing for the Oscars, look at the results
for Titanic, a film that I thought was absolute trash, James Cameron's
worst. It won a bunch of oscars because everyone on the planet saw it. LA
Confidential was the FAR more deserving film of that year, Good Will
Hunting
was also very good. But since the academy wouldn't want to upset all the
idiotic fans of Titanic, it takes the oscars over the deserving film. The
only "NOMINATION" that lousy movie deserved was for visual effects and I
thought Starship Troopers deserved the win (which it didn't get, of
course).I think it's really sad that our society has become so corrupted by mass
hysteria that it can't even figure out which films are great, and which
aren't. Forrest Gump is good, The Shawshank Redemption is great. Titanic
is
crap, LA Confidential is very good (not as good as Shawshank
though).

******
12 September 2000
9

I missed this when it came out, and probably wouldn't have gone even if I
had heard about it. I expected this to be what "The Green Mile" was. That
is, I thought it would be heavy-handed, pretentious, self-consciously
high-minded, and boring. It is anything but these. It's an engrossing story
and very entertaining story of two men and how they overcome their past
lives. Freeman and Robbins give wonderful performances, and the supporting
cast measures up. There are plenty of funny moments in the film, and the
ending is intensely satisfying. It is a great movie.

******
4 September 2000
10

This movie is uplifting and it is amazing and there are so many adjectives
I
could use to describe it so I won't waste your time...Tim Robbins and
Morgan
Freeman are amazing and the story is amazing, considering that I'm not a
fan
of King's works...I rated this a 10/10 for that wonderful
film...

******
2 September 2000
9

The most inspire movie about human determination. The almost similar plot to
"The Green Mile" which i've seen before this one. What i can say the story
is showing on how human should go on with their life no matter what happen
and the needs of taking necessary action if possible.The character, Andy (which the same name with me, of course) has determine
to take his wife life after knowing her of committing adultery. He has no
choice but to take her life after afraid that she might gain most of his
money (since he was a successful banker). As the result of his action, he
was sent to the maximun security prison where he befriend a famous
"Smuggler" man nickname "Red" played by Morgan Freeman.Life goes on. Actually some of the characters from the movie i've seen them
in "The Green Mile" and the story, as mentioned before, close to the one in
"The Green Mile" scene such as the classic movie that they watch,
etc.I've seen lots of Stephen King's movie adaptation but these two "The Green
Mile" and "The Shawshank Redemption" can be considered as one of the best
drama movie i've ever seen.

******
31 August 2000
10

I can honestly say that Frank Darabont's "The Shawshank Redemption" is my
favourite film of all time.  It is simply perfect and it is criminal in my
opinion that it missed out on so many Academy Awards in 1994. Inspired direction from Mr. Darabont is complimented by superb performances
from every member of the cast, which includes Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman,
Bob Gunton, William Sadler and the menacing Clancy Brown.Based upon a Stephen King novel, "The Shawshank Redemption" is the story of
banker Andy DuFresne, imprisoned for the alleged murder of his wife and her
lover.  As life in prison begins to take it's toll, DuFresne (Robbins)
befriends prison "fixer" Red (Freeman) who is understood to be 'a man who
knows how to get things'.  In truth, there isn't really a definitive
storyline, the film merely chronicles the trials and tribulations
experienced by DuFresne over his life imprisonment, during which time he
becomes a financial advisor to the prison guards and makes friends in high
places, although the Warden Norton (Gunton) has other plans for his
talents.A dynamic twist in the tale is the perfect finale to this exceptional film
of which there is not a bad word to be said.  The 2 hrs 17 mins simply flies
by and by the end this magnificent story of courage, friendship, loyalty and
ultimately hope will leave you feeling warm, extremely satisfied and ready
for another viewing.  A beautiful movie.

******
31 August 2000
10

The only movie that I can watch over and over without it ever boring me. I
still get tears in my eyes every time I see it. One of the greatest movies
ever made. They should have an Oscar awards show for the century and "The
Shawshank Redemption" should win best picture of all time.

******
27 August 2000
10

This film's high ranking on IMDB is both a testimony to its greatness and a
spotlight on how embarrassingly out of touch the Oscar Academy
is.Congratulations to all of those involved in making one of the truly
greatest
films of all time.

******
25 August 2000
10
This movie has to be the most electrifing movies of all time.  This
short
story (originally written by Stephen King) gives a heart pounding reality
of
an innocent banker who uses hope, courage, and brains to OUTsmart the pison
walls of Shawshank.    Morgan Freeman plays an exceptional character (Red)
who claims that being "institutionalized" can keep a man from being truly
free.  This movie displays one of the best one-liners I have ever heard and
the best ending life has to offer-(if you listen close to what Red has to
say he fore shadows Andy's greatest stunt.)
I enjoyed SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION and I enjoy IMDB, they display all the
memorable quotes that I enjoyed and I gave this movie a Rating of
10!!

******
25 August 2000
10

Low budget, weak at the box office, winless at the Academy Awards, and
often
considered a weak and clitched film.  It's too bad that the greatest film
ever made is also the most underrated.The Shawshank Redemption is the story of Ellis Redding (Red), and his
views
on life, society, and an inmate named Andy Dufresne.The story is flawless, the score is memorable, the cinematography is
splendid, and the movie flows at a smooth pace all the way through its
three
hour length.  While it often appears to be a weak film at first glance, it
really just requires multiple viewings.  After several viewings, anyone
can
begin to realize its greatness.While movie critics can keep calling Citizen Kane the greatest, I realize
it
doesn't come close to so much as comparing to Shawshank.  Citizen Kane
doesn't let its viewers relate to its character, think his every thought,
walk his every step, or breathe his every breath.  Citizen Kane is a
puzzling and riveting masterpiece, but like most "greats", it doesn't
compare to The Shawshank Redemption.The Shawshank Redemption is leagues away from any film I've ever seen in
terms of greatness.  It is timeless, memorable, original, and ultimately
the
best film I probably will ever see. 

******
23 August 2000
7

The Shawshank Redemption made me spend a good evening when I watched it.
Though quiet common, the plot has a good rythm. The beginning of the movie
is even very common, with the scene of a murder and the following trial.
The
story in the prison goes rather slowly. The actors are good, especially
Morgan Freeman. It is a good entertainment, but nothing more.


******
23 August 2000
10

One of the greatest movie I've seen. It tuched me deep in my
heart.
Absolutely brilliant.Congratulations King.

******
22 August 2000
10

This is what it's all about! The creation of a movie that will
move us all. 
A great story, great actors, great filming, but most of all:A superb plot. Absolutly superb.

******
22 August 2000
10

Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest flicks I have ever seen.
Morgan
freeman and Tim Robbins put on an award-winning performance.  I think this
film would have received more Academy Awards if the subject matter had not
been so dark and it had not been facing Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction. I
watch this film time and time again and still have the same anxiety of the
first time.  I have ruined three video tapes of the Shawshank Redemption by
excessive viewing.  Each purchase of a new tape is worth
it!

******
21 August 2000
10

Just saw this for the first time on TV and I will definitely get a DVD
copy
for watching again and again.  A really great movie! I was mesmerized by
Freeman and Robbins acting ability.  I felt like they were my personal
friends by the end of the movie.  I could relate to their inner thoughts
and
deeds.

******
15 August 2000
10

The Shawshank redemption is one of a very few movies that
lives
up to the book it is based upon. Many Stephen King books
become
almost unrecognizable on the screen, but this one, like
'The
Green Mile', stays true to the feel and rhythm of the book.
Every time I watch it, I appreciate it more. One of the
best.

******
8 August 2000
10

This must be one of the movies I have enjoyed most at the cinema. I can't
find one bad moment in this masterpiece. Both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman
delivered their parts as if they were living them. Morgan Freeman's
thought's was interesting listening too. My feeling for this film can't be
expressed in words so I let the rest of the audience decide whether they
like it or not. But as You already imagine, this is one of my favorites. 10 out of 10A must see......................

******
8 August 2000
10

You've heard the rule, the book is always better than the movie.  Here is
the only exception I have found.  This movie is better than the book.  A
great book - Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, by Stephen King.
The movie is even better.  It could well have been named, the Shawshank
Exception.

******
7 August 2000
10

This film is based on Stephen King's story Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption. It was part of a collection of four short novels, among them Apt
Pupil (adapted by Bryan Singer) and The Body (made into Stand By Me by Rob
Reiner). Shawshank was a great story and the film adaption by Frank Darabont
is brilliant. The film is highlighted by the strong performances of Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins.This movie has everything you could want in a film: inspiring story of
people persevering through bad times, strong directing and acting (two of
the very best actors of today) and one of the classic endings I've seen in a
movie.Shawshank is well-made and inspiring. It has joined my personal movie
hall-of-fame, which includes The Grapes of Wrath, High Noon, Goodfellas,
L.A. Confidential and Bugsy. I also reccomend The Green Mile, Darabont's
most recent King adaption. 


******
7 August 2000
10

I have no clever thoughts or ideas about this movie.  I am not going to
discuss the plot, acting, or directing.  It is just the best movie I have
ever seen.  Period.  End of story.  See ya.  .

******
7 August 2000
10

This is, without a doubt, one of the most gripping movies that I've ever
seen.  The script is well written and proves once again that Stephen King
is
a masterful story teller.  I've definitely seen a few King movies that have
left a bit to be desired, but this is not it.  King is at his best on this
one.Let's not forget the stunning performances of Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman.  There couldn't be a better pairing then these to gentlemen.  This
was a defining role for Robbins as he broke out of his typical `funny
movie'
role and proved without a doubt that he is an actor in every sense of the
word.  I gained new respect for this man after seeing this movie and gladly
see anything he does.Morgan Freeman succeeded in further cementing himself in my mind as one of
the great actors of today.  He makes you believe that the saying is true;
`They sentence you to life and that's exactly what they
get.'Don't take my word for it, see it for yourself.  Don't just rent it,
though,
buy it because you'll have to own it once you've seen it and there's no
sense in throwing away your money on the rental.


******
5 August 2000
10

The Shawshank Redemption was a beautifully directed movie. The actors
portrayed their characters to the greatest extent and i thoroughly enjoyed
this movie.
The best scene in the movie was the huge tree...each of its branches
catching the suns rays as Morgan Freeman finds what Tim Robbins left for
him...anyone who doesn't remember that better watch the movie
again.

******
2 August 2000
10

In my book this is the best movie ever made, or at least my favorite.  I
know that may be going out on a limb, but it is that spectacular.  It makes
me smile every time in the end, it actually brings me near tears which very
few movies have ever done.

******
27 July 2000
10

Arguably Tim Robbins' greatest performance to date.  Coming from someone
who
tends to appreciate movies set behind bars, this movie is every bit worth
10
stars!  I was astonished to find out that this is adapted from a great
Stephen King short story, Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption.Before writing this review, I sat down, with a bowl of popcorn and a cold
one (Pepsi), and watched this great movie again.  It has come to my
opinion
that there is absolutely nothing wrong with this movie, or the way it was
put together.
Everyone prisoner should be allowed to watch this movie, and hope that
their
warden would allow them to keep after the books, and then use that
position
to break out.  But, after all, this is Hollywood!

******
26 July 2000
10

This simply is the best movie I've ever seen. With 2 of the greatest actors
(Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman) and such a great ending, it will be
difficult
to beat (in my case). This movie will be the standard for 'jail-movies' for
a very long time!

******
26 July 2000
10

This is one of the best films I have ever seen in my life the acting and
story are superb. If you have not seen this movie go see it RIGHT NOW! This
movie has wone 7 Oscars I think and it deserves ever one of them.  Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman are a great team together 

******
21 July 2000
10

Perhaps the only thing more remarkable than this masterpiece of a movie is
the fact that neither Tim Robbins nor Morgan Freeman won Oscars for their
performances.  I would put Freeman's portrayal of Ellis Redding amongst the
best performances ever in a movie...so moving, so powerful.  And the fact
that this film did not win Best Picture is all the more unsettling.This movie isn't just about a couple of guys in prison.  Anyone who sees
that, well, that must be where the "1" ratings came from.  The message of
hope is so positively inspiring.  This is a movie that immensely impacted my
life, something I can't say about any other film.  Forrest Gump?  Sure it
was a good movie, but it really was just about a slow-witted man on a bench
discussing his life.  It never should have won Best Picture.  I'm not sure
if the MPAA ever saw this movie, maybe that explains it.  Not only was the
acting magnificent, but the ending is one of the best in movie history.  I'm
a 19 year old male, and I can't remember the last time I cried for anything.
But the final scene in The Shawshank Redemption reduced me to tears.  If
there is anyone reading this who has not seen this movie, you would be doing
yourself a huge injustice if you didn't run to the video store immediately.
I've seen all the "Great" movies -- Citizen Kane, Casablanca, Godfather (not
to mention American Beauty, the most overrated movie ever), but none of them
even comes so close as to compare to this movie.  Plain and simple, the
Shawshank Redemption is the best movie I have ever seen, and it will be a
very long time before something better comes along.  20/10 if I
could.

******
20 July 2000
10

Someone please tell me why this film is number two when it has a 9.0 user
rating. Perhaps the mafia has an insider here to keep the Godfather number
1. Anyway this film deserves to be number 1 for so many reasons. Just see
it
and you will know why.

******
19 July 2000
10
This movie is simply the greatest.  Anybody can relate to the message of
hope and the importance of freedom.  If this movie can't inspire you to
live
your life to the fullest, I don't know what will.  And I think all fans of
this film will agree that the ending of this movie is the greatest.  I must
have breathed only three times while watching that.  And critics complain
that it's long.  All the great movies are though.  Anyway, whoever reads
these comments and hasn't seen the film yet, go rent it.  You will not
regret it.

******
18 July 2000
10

There are so many facets to this film, both subtle and obvious. You really
need to see it multiple times to appreciate them all. Several reviews have
tried to boil this movie down into a few phrases, usually not doing it
justice. This movie is about the growing and intimate friendship of the
two
main characters, and is possibly the best male friendship movie ever
made.If only Steven King would stick to movies like this and Stand By Me,
instead
of the supernatural horror films. His story-telling prowess is
unmatched.Morgan Freeman once again shows his incredible abilities, and this
performance ranks with his great portrayal in Glory! He has an uncanny
knack
for helping you know a character better than it's screentime should allow.
You just know who Red is in this film, in your heart.HBO's showing several years ago included a couple of cut-out scenes that
were fantastic, and are worth looking for if you like this movie.


******
12 July 2000
10

After being slightly dissappointed by "The Green Mile", I decided to check
out Frank Darabont's first adaptation of a Steven King prison story once
again. "The Shawshank Redemption" remained as much of an enjoyably original
modern classic after this second viewing. In this second viewing, I
appreciated even more the sparklingly sharp dialogue between Morgan Freeman
and Tim Robbins. Like in "Green Mile", Darabont set the scene of a
depression-era prison extremely well. The director was also well-served to
use King's vivid character descriptions to make the supporting characters as
memorable as the leads. The result was an instant, uplifting classic about
hope brought to the most
hopeless locations.

******
12 July 2000
10

This and Clint Eastwood's "Unforgiven" rank side by side at the summit of my
all-time favorites list (and no, I am not a Morgan Freeman freak).This is the kind of movie that starts out solid and keeps driving at
you...solid. It does not make any insultingly wrongful turns in logic nor
does it infringe on your conception of what is believable and what is
excruciatingly unbelievable.This is a no-frills story of a man who is wrongfully accused of murdering
his wife. The film's glorious irony, that his 19-years-long jail sentence is
the best thing to happen to him in his life, slowly manifests itself.

******
10 July 2000
10

I do not normally consider myself to be much of a drama fan, having always
preferred the action-adventure genre. "The Shawshank Redemption" is the film
that changed that feeling for me, and reading the other comments and
reviews, for a lot of other people as well.  Frank Darabont made a giant
leap forward from his previous efforts in the "B" horror film world when he
came up with this gem.  Tim Robbins turned in his best performance as Andy
Dufresne, and Morgan Freeman was brilliantly cast as Red.  This is a
"Feel-Good" movie of the first order, and well worth it's number 2 ranking
on the IMDb top 250.  Everything works in this film, the score, the acting,
the realism of the prison scenes, absolutely  everything!  "Shawshank" is as
close to a perfect film as you will ever see.  If you do not already own a
copy of this masterpiece, run, do not walk, to the video store and purchase
a copy.  It should be in the library of every movie fan.  A 5 star, 10 out
of 10, classic movie!!

******
8 July 2000
10

this is the greatest movie i have ever seen.  by reading the plot you may
think of it as just another prison movie. it's more of a friends movie.
the
greatest portrayal of how wonderful a friend is i have ever seen.  i love
this movie and have seen it a million times and will see it another million
times.

******
1 July 2000
10

Okay, I will not reiterate what praises others have said about this movie. I
think it's brilliant and touching, and others have expressed this more
eloquently than I can. See for yourself.  I just wish IMDB had a 1 to 100 scale for rating movies, instead of 1 to 10.
 Then I could give this movie a perfect 100, while giving something like
"Cinema Paradiso" a 94 or 95. As it stands, I gave both movies a ten, but I
think Shawshank is a shade better, and I wish a new ratings could reflect
that opinion.

******
27 June 2000
10

For me, the best movies inspire emotion.  This movies does just that for
me,
better than any other movie to date.The message here is one of mostly one of hope with a dash of justice
thrown
in.  There is hope for the unjustly incarcerated, and justice for those
who
do wrong.  Andy DeFresne, despite all the odds against him, never lets the
situation get to him. Red finds his hope through Andy.The onscreen performances are superb. Every character has dimension and
adds
to the message.  The screenplay, the most important component of any
movie,
is simply flawless.

******
25 June 2000
9

This is the film I always heard people talk about but never saw.Until now.
I must say, it does fulfil my expectations. It has beenbrilliantly directed, the actors have done a wonderful job andthe story is perfect. I recommend it to everybody.But... yes there is a but, I thought it just missed a littlesomething. That's the reason I gave it a 9 instead of a 10. This film is a product of craftmanship, but it isn't art. And this iswhat makes a film truly great. Everything has been put in theright place, but it misses some originality, some magic touch.It's a brilliant movie, but it doesn't compare to other movieslike American Beauty or American History X, which truly changeyour way of thinking.

******
23 June 2000
10

For those who have not seen The Shawshank Redemption, you have, so far,
missed a genuine treat. I have seen hundreds of films. I don't think I have
ever seen more than two or three that combined what I consider to be the
five basic aspects requisite for consideration as a masterpiece. This is
one
of those films. The five basic elements are great acting--in which we the
viewer see the character, feel the character, not the actor; a great
score/sound-track; a cinematic quality that enables the viewer to
experience
the surroundings, not just view them; great dialogue and non-dialogue--the
best scripts usually utilize not only the verbal abilities of actors, but
non-verbal expression as well (see a film with Cary Grant or Robert De Niro
to know what I mean); and most important a compelling story.The Shawshank Redemption not only offers ALL of these, but does so at a
level few films have ever reached.The basic plot is simple enough: a man is wrongly convicted of murdering
his
wife and the man with whom she is having an affair. Why then is it so
great?
The performances, all around, but especially of Robbins and Freeman are so
rich, so human, the viewer feels they are living their experiences. The
film
demonstrates, magnificently, how a man can create a meaningful life against
horrid (mentally and physically) circumstances. The film wrenches the guts
of its viewers, yet provides great satisfaction in the end. It is a great
film celebrating determination, friendship, revenge (as sweet as you will
ever see), education, and the basic goodness intrinsic to all
people.


******
22 June 2000
10

I have many films that I regard as my personal favourites and it is
difficult to put these in any order.  However the number one in my list is
easy - The Shawshank Redemption. This film has addictive qualities - if this
film is on a screen you have to watch it no matter how often you've seen it.
I think I'll go and watch it again now!

******
19 June 2000
10

"The Shawshank Redemption" really is the best movie ever made. Its
excellence is so difficult to put in words. The movie is that good. It is
extremely powerful, with excellent acting by the two leads, a moving story,
great humor, beautiful camera work, well-done direction and writing by the
great Frank Darabont(sp?), and a haunting original score by Thomas Newman
(it's so good I bought the OST). A movie that leaves you feeling great...
Andy Dufresne gives up hope, and Red gives us integrity. Superb. * * * * *
(as if out of 5)

******
18 June 2000
10

When one thinks of how many dross films have somehow managed to win Oscars
you begin to lose faith when the classic SR doesn't even win
one.For the life of me I don't know why this film was overlooked - sure the
critics didn't like it, and it didn't do too well at the Box Office because
the title was just too difficult or ambiguous to remember. Nevertheless by
the time it went to Video the film has had a second life to the point where
it is in the top three films of all time according to the members of IMDb,
and rightly so.Prison films are nothing new of course, and neither is SR. But SR shines
from so many areas that it has to be the best prison film
ever.I was particularly impressed with the cinematography from Roger Deakins,
especially those wonderful sweeping pan shots from of the prison taken from
above.The acting is a revelation from all concerned especially Morgan Freeman who
really should have won an Oscar. But then there's Robbins himself who I've
never really warmed to, except perhaps for Jacobs Ladder. But he really is a
tour-de-force here and should be proud of this film.But the acting plaudits go deeper than just the two main stars; the support
from Bob Gunton, William Sadler & especially Clancy Brown also deserve huge
credit.Its a very hard, uncompromising film but it doesn't play to stereotype. The
violence is very real and yet warranted I think. It does fall to the cliche trap on one or two occasions - the ending,
although generally well done, was perhaps just a little pretencious for my
liking, especially the preachy monologue from Freeman jarred just a
tad.Another annoying thing is the ageing process. Robbins hardly ages at all
during his 20 year stay...but I'm quibbling.SR is a superb, moving & rewarding film full of hope & belief. The sudden
surge of emotional energy that went through me as Robbins stands in the
pool, his arms outstretched as the rain lashes down on
him!In my virtual world The Shawshank Redemption won 10 Oscars and became a Box
Office champ and was loved by the critics. The real world, just like the
real world outside Shawshank Prison, is simply too cruel to want to think
about!

******
15 June 2000
9

This film is destined to become a classic. It shows the human spirit in full
force. The story is terrific with many wonderful characters. Morgan Freeman
delivers a truly brilliant performance that received a well-deserved Academy
Award nomination. Bob Gunton gives a wonderfully villainous, intense
performance as Warden Norton. Darabont's direction is solid. The climax is
wonderfully uplifting. On a personal note, I thought this film slowed down
at times but these sequences were essential to the plot, they just seemed to
distract me. This film is definetly worth a look.

******
13 June 2000
10

I remember wanting to see this movie because I saw the promotional shot of
Robbins standing in the rain; I thought it was a beautiful scene.  It is a
minor scene in the movie.This movie is, for lack of a better word, perfect.  Every moment holds
meaning, every performance is dead on.  I have watched it more times than I
can count, and it always seems new and wonderful to me.  More than any
movie
I have seen, it brings real emotions to the audience and brings comfort to
the hopeless.Sometimes I think a great work of art is one that brings change to the
audience.  This movie is transforming.

******
8 June 2000
10

This movie is brilliant.  There is no need to go into detail about the
reasons behind my saying so.  It is a film that everyone should simply take
the time out to watch- to try to describe its qualities would be at best an
injustice to this piece of treasure.  I have never encountered a single
person who regretted watching the film, and come on lets give it some more
10s so it can beat out the godfather! (which I haven't seen so maybe once I
do I'll be singing a different tune)...but regardless, this film is amazing,
and not many can compare to it at all.

******
8 June 2000
10

This is the best movie ever made.  If you haven't seen it yet, stop doing
whatever it is that you are doing, go to your local video store, shell out
the three or four dollars to rent the videotape or DVD, go home, put some
popcorn in the microwave, put the movie in, turn on your home entertainment
center, sit on the couch, and WATCH THIS MOVIE.  If you have friends who
haven't seen it yet, tell them to come over and watch it with you.  You
will
not be disappointed.  They will not be disappointed.  This is the best
movie
ever made.  

******
5 June 2000
10

i really dont have any more to say - except read the other reviews - they
really say it for me. In other words - this is one of the greatest movies of
all time.
This is an absolute masterpiece and it will be definitely a film that i will
gladly show to my grandchildren in the mid-21st century - IT'S THAT GOOD...
watch it and learn.....

******
4 June 2000
8

This film is, with no shadow of a doubt what so ever, the best movie that I
have ever had the wonderous pleasure to view. Films like Shawshank are what
allow me to love movies and to cherish wonderful stories. I can say that
I'm
a critical gremlin- I'm constantly attempting to find faults, flaws and
plot
holes in every movie i see- yes, I'm that guy who always says it was only
an
ok movie when you loved it- But... this one is so powerful, so beautiful,
so
absolutely inspiring that I couldn't care if there was a plot hole or a
flaw, its just too good of a film to attack. To Hell with Forest Gump for
winning over Shawshank, to Hell with Titanic, Shakespeare in garbage, The
English Idiot, and Forest Dump- these movies all sucked, sucked, sucked to
begin with but compared to the diamond jewel of Shawshank, they look as
good
as sitcoms made by Fox. So anyway, my favorite movie of all time and only
one of three movies worthy of a ten rating.   

******
27 May 2000
10

This film is truly one of the greatest of all time.  Much like the other
works based on Stephen King novels, there is a main storyline to follow, and
then another deeper story.Morgan Freeman does a very impressive job portraying a man who has been held
prisoner by his own fear of the outside world, and who is eventually freed
by hope.  Tim Robbins also did an excellent job, but Frank Darabont really
deserves a lot of credit for fleshing out this beautifully written script
into a great movie.This is a movie that warrants multiple viewings.  Four
stars!

******
27 May 2000
9

Based on Stephen Kings novel, this film tells the tale of a man (Tim Robbins
in excellent form), sentanced to 2 life sentances for the double murder of
his wife and her lover.Inside he meets Red (Morgan Freeman) and over the next 20 years tells the
story of his life and the lives around him.This is not a very happy movie although (turn away if you dont want any idea
of the ending) has a happy ending. Thats a double negative, but the film
shows the graphic violence of prisons in the 1940's, where men are
forcefully raped.Two lines (both spoken by Freeman) really stand out in this film. See if you
know what they are.10/10

******
24 May 2000
10

I have read the short story (novella?) by Steven King and seen this great
film and I have to say that this is one time when Hollywood did a better job
then the author. I've seen tons of prison movies (some with good plots and
others that are complete B movies) and this has to be the best one out
there. Usually when I like a movie, I can watch it a bunch of times. And I
have seen Shawshank many times, but none of the repeated viewings were as
good as the first. Clancy Brown (he was great in Highlander too) once again
steals the show as a Hard A--- prison guard who gets his just desserts in
the end. Chances are you've already seen this, but if you haven't, I fully
recommend you give it a chance.

******
18 May 2000
10

The Shawshank Redemption was a film that I was always on my way to the
theater to see, but unfortunately, I got sidetracked each and every time.
Critics felt that the long title kept people away, I guess I was in that
category, no matter how great I heard this movie was. I finally saw the
movie the day it hit videotape. To this day, it continues to dominate the
number one position on my list of favorite films of all time. There is so
much to love about this film. Especially the writing by Frank Darabont.
This
is one of the few films that does Stephen King's material justice. It's a
very uplifting story, one that you can't really articulate with words. This
film is about the experience. I'm proud to say that I own a copy of the
movie, a copy of the screenplay, and a copy of Different Seasons, in which
the original story derived. This is the one picture I recommend to people,
even strangers, on a regular basis. 

******
17 May 2000
9

To begin with,  The story is pretty well cliched.  Like most prison dramas
hope and struggle seem to be the element that put the plot together.  For
once this is probably the one time that such a cliched plot actually
worked.
I have personally seen this movie over 20 times just to figure out how
and
why it works so well.  First of all the story is deep and thought
provoking.
Morgan Freeman's voice over narrative lets you see it through his eyes
(the
movie is really about him).  The acting is flawless the whole picture is
shot as a true epic.  This is one great film about friendship and hope
that
does not dwell to much on pathos and mindless sentimentality.  A true
modern
day classic!         

******
10 May 2000
10

Morgan Freeman at his absolute best, Tim Robbins - better than ever - it
must be a good film!!The Shawshank Redemption grabs you tight and pulls you into its depth and
drama. It is definitely worth a look if you haven't seen
it.This film shows the story of how hope can set you free. It is a beautiful
film with excellent actors, an good story and shocking (but excellent)
dialouge. The Shawshank Redemption definitely deserves it's place as my no. 5
favourite film and IMDb's no. 3 user rated film.My rating : Obviously 10/10.

******
4 May 2000
10

This would have to be THE best movie that I have ever seen. The story of a
wrongly convicted man. And the story of a man searching for meaning. And the
story of an institutionalised man. This movie takes several different
stories and turns them into one fantastic film.Watch it a number of times to see all the stories come together in an
inspiring manner that touches the soul. I can't recommend this movie enough.
Morgan Freeman's performance of the narrating Red, and explanations of
prison life are truly touching. Tim Robbins' portrayal of Andy is near
perfect, no, it IS perfect.Watch it, then watch it again.You won't be disappointed.

******
26 April 2000
10

As near to perfect as a movie can get, "The Shawshank Redemption" is
absolutely superlative entertainment.  I keep wondering at those who claim
the movie is too long (as many also did for the fantastic "Green Mile").  I
wonder if MTV, television newscasts, commercials and other things have
destroyed the attention span of several generations of people.  Nobody seems
to be able to stick with anything for more than an absolute maximum of two
hours anymore.  It's a disappointing trend, because often a great story
cannot be told in the usual 120-minute maximum alloted to most
films.If you have the attention span to watch a film longer than two hours, movies
just don't get any better than this one does.  Don't look for realism (try
PBS or any documentary for that), look for plot, acting talent and (above
all): Simply a good, satisfying tale!  The Shawshank Redemption has it all,
in spades, and Frank Darabont is on his way to an absolutely stellar
directing career.  Kudos to Stephen King as well for his excellent novella,
"Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption," which obviously helped make this
film possible.  10/10.

******
24 April 2000
10

This is a story with drama, injustice, pain and real friendship. Both
performances ( Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins ) were wonderful, they have
made the movie even more interesting!!! No doubt, one of my favourites so
far...really it is just to watching it too many times with no possibility
of
getting bored!!!

******
22 April 2000
10

When it comes to analyzing the true meanings of movies I'm no expert, but
this movie really gave me a feel of inner hope and confidence. I mean, put
your self in Andy Dufresne's(Tim Robbins) position. If you were in prison
for something that not only did you not do but was being accused of
murdering someone that you loved and cared for. And you go to prison for
what 30? 40 years? and day after day you dig and you dig and you dig, and
with what?? a spoon!! I know I would have gone nuts by then. BUT Andy gave
hope, and he also gave Red(Morgan Freeman) hope. And I think that was the
main aspect of the whole movie. Which is, in no matter what type of
circumstances there is always one Andy Dufresne giving hope. Go find
yours!!!!I gave this movie a 8/10.

******
21 April 2000
9

This is a 'must see' movie.
Very strong emotionally and with great actors that perform at their
best.But this movie makes you think, think about life and specially about hope,
and the final is well worth seeing it.After all, isn't Shawshank our prison to us all?

******
19 April 2000
10

It's not the easiest thing in the world to describe with words how perfect
THE
                              SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION really is.                              Well, let's try. It won't take long, read
other comments for closer details and
                              views. This is a fantastic unforgettable movie
where a banker (Robbins) gets his
                              life changed, when he get a double
life-sentence because of the murder of his wife
                              and her lover. The first years gets to be a
pure hell, he gets harassed, and he
                              doesn't fit in. When he meet Freeman and his
pals and starts a friendly
                              relationship the movie starts up. Memorable
and entertaining movie with big lifts
                              by most of the fantastic cast. And this is
coming from Stephen King?                               10/10 

******
3 April 2000
10

Shawshank Redemption (The)DIRECTION 90%
Nicely designed and well thought out movement.ACTING 95%
Some of the best you will ever see.EDITING/SPECIAL EFFECTS 82%
Perhaps one of the weakest elements in this exceptional
film.PLOT 97%
Life in prison must be hard. and it's hard to escape!STRONG WORDS AND VIOLENCE ETC. 90%
Plenty of both types.MUSIC 91%
Strangely conducive to the movie.SOUND 86%
Bring you into the prison and locks you in.HOOKABILITY 91%
Watching the opening sequences opens the plot to outsiders
convincingly.LASTABILITY 95%
You will want to know about the after effects and lives of these
characters.OVERALL 92%
One of the best prison dramas available!


******
3 April 2000
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  There
is so much to this story and if you blink once you'll miss something.
Behind every color and object there lies a message. Watching this movie
only
once is an injustice. It is a great movie and I highly recommend
it.

******
2 April 2000
9

As stated in the tagline, this is a film of hope. The difficult question
is
however, is whom does it refer to? The two lead characters (Andy Dufresne
and 'Red' Redding, played superbly by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman
respectively) are both inmates at Shawshank penitentiary, one innocent and
the other guilty. This however, does not mar your opinion of either
character - you are able to sympathise with both of them, as you are with
many of the prisoners. You root for these criminals every inch of the way,
despite their wayward past and current situations. This is perhaps the
ultimate feelgood movie, with the greatest twist since Kevin Spacey walked
away in The Usual Suspects. Unlike other films of this genre however,
there
is no need for constant assurance that this will make you feel good - bar
one or two moments in the middle, there is no hint that anything positive
will happen to either hero, right up until that moment.The greatest factor in this movie must be the characterisation. Prison
guards turn from monsters, to friends to cowards; prisoners range from the
horrific, to cruel, to pitiful and finally to likable. Above all, unlike
too
many recent films, each and every character is human and
believable.Is there an answer to that question? Which character has the lead - the
narrating Red or the centrepiece Andy? Who has the hope? The answer to
that
lies in the interpretation of a film that can mean anything.


******
28 March 2000
9

"The Shawshank Redemption" is an uplifting movie about hope. What I got out
of the movie is that as long as you have hope you will always be O.K., I
felt good after watching this movie, it puts that sense of hope inside you.
I was actually cheering during the scene where Andy finally escaped from
prison,it was a very unique moment. This is a film that anybody can watch
and anybody that does watch it it will touch them in a special way, I
guarantee it.

******
26 March 2000
10

A beautiful film, finely crafted, and completely deserving of the cult
status it has gained since losing the Academy Award for Best Picture
(unjustly) to "Braveheart" in 1995. Tim Robbins will never top his
performance as the wrongly-convicted Andy Dufresne, and Morgan Freeman
delivers the most effective voice-over narration in film history. I defy
anyone not to be moved by the touching relationship between the two men,
who
grow old before our eyes as they serve out their sentences. One for
history.
I'll still get teary-eyed when I watch this fifteen years from
now.

******
26 March 2000
10

If you haven't seen the Shawshank Redemption by now, it's likely that you
live in a cave and haven't been in touch with society for the last five
years.  This is one of the best films ever made because it captivates your
attention from start to finish.  I can throw it in the VCR and it doesn't
matter what scene may be playing, I'm instantly engaged.  A strong story,
solid acting and some glorious cinematography create a film that I cannot
go
more than a month without watching it.  I will likely wear the tape that
the
film is captured on out and I will be forced to replace that tape and I
can
honestly say I won't mind having to do so.  

******
24 March 2000
10

Being the cynic that I am, it's my inclination to look for the weaknesses
of
films that ultimately detract from their overall quality. How refreshing
it
is that, on occasion, a film is so masterfully crafted that I can simply
take in all that it has to offer. Such is the case with _The Shawshank
Redemption_.And with _The Shawshank Redemption_, it isn't an issue of the excellence
of
the different components of the film; instead, it's an issue of the way
that
all of the elements of this movie-- the writing, directing, and acting--
are
so vastly superior to those of most every other film.It's difficult to imagine two things more cliched than "Prison Dramas" and
films about "The Triumph of the Human Spirit." Though _The Shawshank
Redemption_ certainly qualifies as both of those cinematic cliches,
there's
nothing about the film that seems even the least bit tired. The unique
characters of Red and Andy Dufrense bring an unexpected liveliness to a
film
that could have easily been both obvious and trite-- such as _The Green
Mile_.Because of the intelligently-written screenplay, with its engaging plot
twists and historically appropriate dialogue, coupled with truly
remarkable
performances by both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman that convey all of the
depth and honesty of their challenging characters, _Shawshank_ improves
upon
the repeated viewings that are necessary to take in all that it has to
offer. The unparalleled depth of this movie allow the viewer to gain
something new-- and something ultimately positive-- from each additional
viewing.Perhaps the greatest achievement of _The Shawshank Redemption_ is the
restraint that director Frank Darabont uses in unfolding this multifaceted
story. When approaching a film with even a fraction of the thematic load
of
this one, most directors simply succumb to the too-easy temptation to tack
a
didactic, heavy-handed morality statement onto the last sequence. Darabont
attains a rare closure; he _doesn't_ moralize. He allows the viewer to
make
his/her own judgments about each of the characters and the fate that he
ultimately meets over the course of the film.RATING: 10 out of 10. In a decade, _The Shawshank Redemption_ will be
grouped into the cinematic canon alongside such triumphs as _Citizen Kane_
and _Dr. Strangelove_. It's not an unmerited distinction. An example of
truly flawless filmmaking.

******
22 March 2000
10

I can't even go into words about how this film moved me.  The themes of hope
and friendship are the powerful strings that tugged at my heart through out.
 A flawless masterpeice with excellent performances by Freeman and Robbins. 
For years, I've heard a lot of talk about this movie.  Damn, I'm glad I
finally saw it.  10 out of 10....to say the least.

******
22 March 2000
10

This was an awesome movie.
I didn't expect it to be that good, when I first started to watch it. First
time I saw it I fell asleep. It must have been because I was tired. Because
now it was a wonderful movie. And if anybody from Mt. Vernon, Iowa reads
this. It's great to watch it as we were supposed to do it in a class there
last year but weren't allowed to because of the rating
(R).

******
18 March 2000
10

I have no doubt in saying that this is undoubtedly the best movie I have
ever seen. "The Shawshank Redemption" is a tale of suffering and despair,
but also one of hope and redemption - as the title suggests. The truth of
life lies within each one of us - just as it lay within Andy Dufresne - all
we have to do is find it. Once you know the truth, it will set you free.
The
message of this film is that there is always hope, there is always truth,
and together these two bring redemption - even in Shawshank!

******
15 March 2000
10

I'm kind of lost for words for this movie. I saw it last night on my
DVD-player and what I saw was brilliance. The story is about a banker Andy
(Tim Robbins) who get prisoned for murdering his wife and her secret lover.
In prison he says he's innocent, which makes the other inmates break out in
laughter. No one is innocent in prison they say. `They've all been f***ed by
lawyers.' What follows is a fight for justice. A inmate (George Freeman) who
calls himself Red (the other inmates call him that because he's `irish')
finds something special in Andy. They connect soon and becomes good friends.
What strikes me about the main characters is that hope and belief is
something that they always have. Even though they go through some very tough
times in prison, they always have that good confidence in themselves. Go see
this movie, if you love the concept of feeling free. There's no let downs or
grief ending this movie. You have to see it for yourself.

******
14 March 2000
10

Hope, love, belief, friendship, feeling.
Watch this film and re-establish once again what is good about the movies.
If you don't particularly like watching films, I urge you to watch this
and
experience something unlike you have experienced before. This, alongside
AMERICAN BEAUTY, is one of the greatest films ever made.

******
5 March 2000
10

This is one of the best movies of all time; an absolute masterpiece!  It
brings me to tears every time I see it and I never tire of it.  It is a
shame that this movie came out in 1994 because Pulp Fiction and Forrest
Gump
stole it's thunder.  Had it been released in '95, '96, '98, or '99.  It
surely would have been a front runner the best picture oscar.  I exclude
'97
because nothing could have beat the almighty Titanic.  Everyone should see
this movie because it is the best example of good people triumphing over
evil and that hope still exists.  The ending will put you in a good mood,
I
guarantee it!

******
28 February 2000
10

this movie is one of only 3 that I have on dvd right now, and I am so glad
that I own it.  anyone who is a movie fan of any kind should see this.
this
is an amazing movie shows what someone can do when they hope.  andy
duphresne was a character who had hope and kept it alive for 20 years even
though he was in prison for life with a crime he didn't commit.  every
aspect of this movie: the camera work, the acting, the dialogue, and the
story work together in a perfect blend of drama.  the best part was when
red
came in for his 3rd parole hearing.  his first 2 times, he had just told
them what he thought they wanted to hear.  "yes, I believe that i'm
entirely
cured.  i believe that i am no longer a danger to society."  he was
rejected
those 2 times.  but the third he was honest, and the outcome was far
different.  A nearly perfect movie.

******
27 February 2000
10

Getting to see The Shawshank Redemption was for me a lengthy process, but
when I finally caught it it was more than worth the wait. In the history
of
movies there have been many impressive debuts from promising directors.
With
The Shawshank Redemption, Frank Darabont has vaulted himself into the
ranks
of Orson Welles and John Huston. There has not been a more memorable movie
experience in the last decade, and it gratifies me to see that users of
this
site regard this film as highly as it ought to be.

******
25 February 2000
10

What can you say about a movie that is perfect?  I myself have plenty
to say.  I believe The Shawshank Redemption is the best film ever made
because it towers above other films in all respects, directorial ability,
acting ability, the story, everything.
Director Frank Darabont captured the essence of the hopelessness (or
supposed hopelessness) of a dark and desolate prison.Morgan Freeman shines in a supporting role, and Tim Robbins sets the
standards for everything a lead actor should be.  His performance was so
good, so heartfelt, that every time I see the film I feel like I'm the one
fighting his battle.
The entire theme of the film, hope, is so overwhelmingly powerful.
Based on Stephen King's short story, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption,
the idea of finding hope in a world where life itself is gone is beyond
the
realms of emotion, it can't be said with words the impact this film makes.
Everyone gets what they deserve in the end, and the glorification of
triumph
and the conquering of fears go beyond imaginable.  As a young lady at 16,
I
have much trouble sometimes finding something to hold onto since falling
into a monotonous routine. This film reminds me of the good things in life
and that every day is a new one, and is something to be
cherished.
Thank God that in a world of shoot-em-up, sex and drug filled,
ridiculous films some people still see the true meaning of movie making,
to
change the lives of those watching.  If you have never seen The Shawshank
Redemption, please do.  It is a film of such epic proportions that it
moves
your soul. 

******
14 February 2000
10

I had heard so many good things about this movie, that I just had to see it.
 I was not disappointed.  This is probably one of the best movies I have
ever seen. Period.  Tim Robbins was outstanding, simply outstanding. Morgan
Freeman was wonderful and I did not know that Gil Bellows had so much in
him.  This movie was absolutely breathtaking.  The scenery, the realism, the
characters, everything was simply outstanding.  I sat through the entire
movie, spellbound by the whole thing, and then I rewound it and watched
again.  I've seen 6 times since, and I always find new and wonderful things
everytime I see it.  I loved it.  It was amazing.  This movie is not just
about prison, but it's about friendship.  A 20-year-long friendship between
two inmates.  I recommend this movie for anyone who needs to find out what
real friendship is all about.  This is truly one of the best movies
ever.

******
14 February 2000
10

Wonderful, wonderful movie, one of the greatest stories ever told.
Terrific
acting, and some of the best dialogue that I have ever heard before in a
movie.  Brillant screenplay and excellent directing.  Why didn't this movie
win Best Picture?

******
13 February 2000
10

This is my favorite movie of all time. It is about one man's struggle of
trying to cope with his life in prison sentence for a crime he didnt
commit.
This movie make prisoners look like true human beings, not just savages.
You
really learn about each of the characters. Morgan Freeman gives a great
role
as Red, who stands by Andy in every instance. 

******
7 February 2000
10

This film sortta runs along and while your watching you dont know why your
watching but you cant stop and then when it finishes you think WOW and have
the funny feelin in the pit of your stomach and all up your spine, the
feelin you get when you know you have watched a cinema masterpiece, i only
wish i had been able to see this in the movies rather than on vhs, but it
will soon become an addition to my dvd collection.The acting is superb and the storyline just gives you hope

******
7 February 2000
10

This is the greatest film ever made.The story of Andy Dufersne, the man who have never lost his hope, who have
always believed, that one day justice would have come to being, that one
day
he would have forgotten with the help of Pacific Ocean and his best friend
Red Redding.I have seen it maybe for twenty times and it is even better and  better. I
would like to recommend it especially to people who think, that their
situation can´t be worst and who think, that their problems can´t be
solved.
To be honest, I have hoped for the whole life that one they I will see film
as The Shawshank Redenption is.Frank Darabont is a magician, because this kind of debut you can´t see
every
day. If he will stay on this level of creating we will only stare with open
mouth on his other films.Now I have great expectations about The Green Mile.   

******
7 February 2000
10

The greatest movie ever made.  The script is amazing.  Tim Robbins is
amazing.  Morgan Freeman is amazing.  The rest of the cast is amazing,
particularly the guy who played the villain in Highlander.  The film is
just
amazing and it is tragic that it was overlooked by the
academy.

******
28 January 2000
9

It was really very easy to like this film - in fact, it was impossible for
me NOT to like it. Maybe the key is the phenomenon that is called "lagom" in
Sweden. That word doesn't exist in any other language, but it means
something like "just right". Not too much, not to little.I felt very comfortable after watching this film. It didn't change my life,
didn't start a revolution - it was just a very good film!Actually, the end was a bit unexpected. It gave the film a romantic touch
that otherwise wouldn't have been there. The only bad thing is that I found
details in the story too improbable, and that was a disturbing moment in
that type of film. It wouldn't have mattered in an action-filled story, but
now it made me irritated, because it stole attention from the story!!
Anyway that detail doesn't stop me from really recommending this film - its
simply "just right"!

******
27 January 2000
10

That's my feeling when I finished reading the novel recently. Frank
Darabont
obviously made a lot of major modifications. The ending scene is one of
them. Forrest Gump is good. Pulp Fiction is good too. But this movie is
even
better. And I'm glad that I saw it in the theater, not on the
videotape.

******
23 January 2000
10

This is much more than a prison film.  This is a film about how the human
spirit can conquer the most unspeakable abyss and come out clean at the
other side.  In addition, the story at the heart of it, of Andy (Tim
Robbins) and Red (Morgan Freedman)is simply a story of two men's friendship
-- something seldom explored in cinema, and rarely as well.  Lastly, the
theme of hope echoes and throughout the film and reverberates in the
viewer's minds like an aria against hard prison walls.


******
23 January 2000
10

Apologies to all proud Anglophiles, but I have never heard the English
language sound so beautiful as during Freeman's narration in the last 20
minutes. Our language has to compete with beautiful languages like Italian,
Spanish and French and Darabont's writing really "stepped up to the plate"
here.No clichéd romantic tragedy of unrequited love had to unfold (there was
only
ONE female speaking role!!!). Only a story of friendship, hope and inner
strength was needed to bring tears to the eyes during the final
narration.Unlike many movies of the nineties, this movie gets its strength from
fantastic characterisation, great pen-to-paper skills and Deakin's
cinematography; words and pictures, not 200 gigabtyes of
cyber-FX!Despite my admiration of James Cameron, this movie beats "Titanic" as well
as classics like "Casablanca," "African Queen," "Citizen Kane," "Gone with
the Wind," and Hitchcock's "North by Northwest."

******
23 January 2000
9

The Shawshank Redemption never made it to the big screen in Sweden, at
least
not what I heard of. And I really can't understand why. It is excellent.
It's a calm and unsettling story of a man's (Robbins) life in jail, of the
friendship between him and his fellow lifer, Red (Freeman) and the
disgusting life in a corrupt prison in the 50's and 60's. Excellent
performances, great camera angles and one of the very best endings of any
film.Stephen King wrote the story. Why should I be surprised? His novels and
short stories make for great films - but most are turned into crap, like
It.
This one, however, is one of the best movies there is.

******
20 January 2000
10

Hey, I have to say that this movie is one of my favorites.  It is up on my
top 10.  Anyway, this movie is amazing.  The story, the acting, and
anything
else you can think of make this movie a classic.  Morgan Freeman (plays
the
character red) did an excellent job on his role.  I think he was totally
robbed when he didn't get the Oscar for best supporting actor.  To get
back
on the movie, if you looking for a good one to watch, you have to see
this.
The movie is wonderfully played.  Also hats off to the great job Tim
Robbins
did playing his main character Andy Dufresne. If you haven't seen this
one,
your missing out!!

******
20 January 2000
10

I read Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption as part of Stephen King's
Different Seasons, and loved the story.. to see just how much one person
can
go through, and not only remain sane, but keep his morals about him, even
in
the purgatory of a corrupt prison. The book was incredible. But the movie
took it one step further, with incredibly well chosen actors and a
beautiful
sense of the book that is hard to set to a movie, as well as lines that I
still remember at the drop of a hat. Incredible, and one of my favorite
movies of all time.

******
19 January 2000
10

After seeing this movie for the first time I was stunned.  Living in Maine
i
was very interested in the whole story.  The prison featured in the movie
is
very similar to our own Thomaston State prison.  This is not just a good
movie, but a great story as well.  It keeps you wanting to see Andy set
free
throughout the whole thing.

******
18 January 2000
10

I first saw this movie on TBS one night, and wasn't all that interested in
it at first. But as the movie progressed, I found myself totally glued to
the TV. This movie is quite possibly the best movie I've ever seen. Every
single thing in this movie is perfect, the acting, chemistry, plot. Its all
so wonderfully done. The ending of this movie was really great.  Its really
hard to
describe how good this movie is. Just go get it, you'll never regret seeing
it. 

******
13 January 2000
10

I'm not going to elaborate on what has already been written by others -
except to say that the popularity for this film is enormous.  I don't think
I know ANYONE who didn't like it - it will be recognised as one of THE
films
of the 90's.

******
12 January 2000
10

I usually hate popular movies(pulp fiction, titanic, forest gump). So I
was
very sceptical when I sat down to watch the currently 4th ranked movie on
the imdb. What can i say, I agree, this movie gets a 10, while some things
are hard to believe(his escape) the range of this movie makes it easy to
ignore. There is a lot of depth here. You get to see all the characters
grow
and age, you really get drawn in to the plot. It shows how brutal prison
can
be. And how dependent on the system one can become.
Another minor thing I didn't like was how after "The Sisters" leader was
beaten and transfered the prison seem to be a utopia except for the guards.
There should have been at least a little inmate-to-inmate brutality
shown.A great addition to your DVD collection.

******
11 January 2000
10

Okay,...I just watched this film for probably the 20th time, and I could
probably watch it a hundred times in a row and not get sick of it. This
comment is directed towards anyone who has not seen this film:                    GO...                    NOW...I have LITERALLY dragged people off the street and sat them down in front of
my television when I've found out that they haven't seen this film. And, I
have not,...to date...met ANYONE who didn't like this film. There's not
really anything bad that you CAN say about it. It's just a beautiful story,
beautifully portrayed....     Go...     NOW...

******
11 January 2000
10

OK, so I am a huge fan of Stephen King as well as of the cinema itself, and
it took me almost 5 years to finally see The Shawshank Redemption.  I think
I was one of the few people on the planet who did not see this fantastic
motion picture.  Everything about this film exudes greatness, from the
performances of Freeman and Robbins to the masterful screenplay,
cinematography, cast and especially the direction.  I agree with most people
who fume over the fact that films such as this one (perfect in every sense)
rarely, if ever garner an Oscar win.  Its a shame that the big budget over -
hyped (and often mediocre at best films) win all the awards while a gem like
The Shawshank Redemption comes up empty.  You never grow tired of watching
this film and its introspective ending is just perfect.  If you are one of
the 4 remaining people who has yet to see this masterpiece, find 2 hours of
quiet time and watch it.  You will thank yourself afterwards.

******
10 January 2000
10

This movie was deeply moving.  I have seen it about six times so far and
cried the first four times I saw it.  As a person who has at times felt as
if I was sentenced to "the hole", I could relate to Andy and to Red.
Perhaps that is one reason the movie has touched so many people.The message and heart in this film is profound.  When Red said, "I
hope....." at the end of the movie, I was hoping too.


******
8 January 2000
10

Considering hundreds of thousands have made this their top 4 all-time film,
there isn't much that I can add -- that hasn't already been said (or
known).Acting -- from lead to support:  superb.   What works the best is the
obvious interaction between Robbins and Freeman, and the internal mechanisms
taking place within themselves and the other.Screenplay -- Intelligent, eternal, interesting sub-plots, gripping, classic
conflicts being resolved in a satisfying manner.  My only beef with the
script is Freeman's final statement to the parole board.   I realize its
irony, but didn't consider it credible.Cinematography -- Every camera angle is well framed, positioned or filtered
in choice moments.This film is an emotionally satisfying experience that leaves one feeling
good about life and its possibilities.  What a wonderful ending.

******
8 January 2000
10

What amazes me about the Shawshank Redemption is that I can watch it over
and over again without losing interest.  Normally for me, even with movies
I
enjoy, once is enough.  However, when I'm channel surfing and I flip
across
Shawshank, I almost always leave it on and watch it to the
end.

******
5 January 2000
10

 I must say that this is the best prison films of all time. I couldn't
believe that this film didn't win any Academy Awards. This film could have
win at least one or two. Also, I thought that Tim Robbins could have earned
an Oscar nomination. He gave a superb performance. But the one who was
powerful in this film is Morgan Freeman. He gave one of the best
performances that I have ever seen in film. It was heartwrenching. I like
that tagline: Fear can make you prisoner, Hope can set you free. Frank
Darabont did superb filmmaking in this film. By the way, I found out that
Allen Greene, the person that Frank dedicated at the end, was the director's
agent and his close personal friend. If you want to see a film that takes
place in a prison or dramatic films, then see this film. You will never
regret it. It is the best prison film since Midnight Express. SEE
IT!

******
5 January 2000
10

I saw this movie a long while ago, and I've seen it about 5 times, but if
I
catch it on TV, I sit back, relax, and watch it again, like if I have
never
seen it before.Tim Robbins has become one of my favorite actors. After this movie and
Arlington Road, I think he deserves as much as credit as an actor can get.
Morgan Freeman is also known for making good movies, even when he has made
some bad films, like every good actor alive, of course.The idea of putting this two men together was simply brilliant. I also
think
the Director made a great job.Now lets talk about the movie a little bit...
I think this is the kind of movie that people wants, the kind of movie
that
makes you feel happy after you see it, the kind of movie that you cannot
get
out of your head for a few days after you've seen it. You also think, of
course, that is so not fair that a person can lose 20 years of his life
that
way, being innocent, that the only witness, that can also save you, is
murdered because the director of the Prison does not wants you to leave,
since you are doing a very good job for him.The way that Andy (Robbins) got rid of the three homosexuals that were
abusing him, is excellent, and it also shows how Andy was not afraid of
talking to the guards, and he was not nervous or anything like that, and
most of all, that he was very smart. That was probably what I liked the
most
about the film, Andy's intelligence.The way he escaped is just fantastic, specially because it could have been
true, after all, he did not even kill anyone.Maybe, when a person watches me talking like that, thinks that I only give
credit to Robbins for the movie, but that is not true, I think Morgan
Freeman did a very good performance too. After all, the movie would not be
the same without the way he narrates it.I'll rate this movie with a 10 out of 10, I think it really deserves it,
and
it's definitely one of the best movies ever.

******
3 January 2000
10

Highly reccommended.  Best if you watch by yourself.  I cried at the end,
and I never cry.Love the friendship between Andy and Red, great performances by both.  The
plot moves along perfectly, I felt what the characters felt.  Rivals
"Seven"
for one of the best endings I have ever seen.  

******
3 January 2000
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of my all time favorites. Robbins and
Freeman in particular, but everyone else as well delivers an outstanding
performance in this one. Few films, if any, captures your mind like
Shawshank does. I just hope my DVD copy don't wear out...


******
28 December 1999
10

Anyone out there who takes the Academy Awards seriously is out of touch to
say the least.  If there has ever been a film made that was actually
deserving of sweeping the Oscars  it's
"Shawshank".  Not only should it have won the 7 Oscars it was up for, but
several others it did not even get nominations for.Terence Marsh deserved another Oscar for his set design (yes, that was a
set) of the amazing prison.  James Whitmore gave a performance as great as
any supporting actor that year.  How Tim Robbins did not join Morgan
Freeman
in the Best Actor category (take your pick who to give the Oscar to) is
beyond me.  And the saddest thing, next to the film not winning Best
Picture, is that Frank Darabont did not take home the Best Director Oscar
that was so rightfully his.The Academy will continue handing out its Oscars for "The Best Picture of
the Year" to movies like Titanic, The English Patient, and Forrest Gump.  I
guess The Shawshank Redemption will have to settle for "The Greatest Movie
Ever Made".  

******
28 December 1999
10

This is one of the best movies around. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are
great in this movie. I'm fifteen, and the only part of this movie I didn't
appreciate is the part about the homosexual rapist gang. That part I can
do
without, but the rest of the movie is flawless. Rent it, buy it, steal it,
borrow it, do whatever it takes to see this movie.

******
23 December 1999
10

This film is by far my favorite movie to date. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman have great chemistry. Once you watch this movie a second time you
see how all the small details that you may have seen as insignificant fall
into place. My personal favorite is how the rock hammer was in the starting
pages of the book of Exodus from the bible.


******
20 December 1999
10

This movie is a work of art , it is a movie that makes you
think
about how great it is to be alive and free , and how other
peoples may have a struggle each day to stay alive and free ,  in the mind
of themselves ,for a start .


******
19 December 1999
8

This is as close to perfection as any film can get. Of course Robbins and
Freeman do superb acting jobs, and the direction is unbelievable. The great
thing about this is that it follows the book to a "T". The book was just a
short story of about 107 pages, so they had to ad a few small parts in. For
the most part, they follow the book exactly. Stephen King is a great writer
(not only of horror, but drama, too).This is a great story, and a great movie. The best drama ever to be filmed.
A masterpiece. 

******
15 December 1999
10

The story is excellent and the actors all perform well. Never a boring
scene. Good drama. Some scenes are even funny ! The plot is superb. I
thought Stephen King only wrote horror-stories, but I guess I was wrong !If you see this movie on video, sit down and watch it all and LISTEN !  You
have to pay attention! And then you'll love it !  

******
12 December 1999
9

This is some Movie! Directed by Frank Darabont, The Shawshank Redemption
shows more than any other film made about Prison life, the hopelessness,
frustration, loneliness and degredation Prison inmates experience. Darabont
does a great job in capturing the atmosphere of the Gaol, cleverly moving
his cameras in close to magnify  an emotion or expression as Andy Dufresne,
( Tim Robbins ) ' Red, '  played brilliantly by Morgan Freeman, and many
others including James Whitmore as the ' institutionalized ' Brooks Hatlen,
wrestle daily with their torments and their tormentors. Robbins did some
good work with his character,the snotty banker brought back down to earth in
the form of a prison yard and, as always Freeman gave another polished
performance as the prison's regular ' Sears and Roebuck ' while giving us
also a moving narrative throughout the Movie. I particularly liked Director
Darabont's wish to show us as much of the Prison as he can with wide shots
adding another dimension to his work, and enjoyed also his ability to hold
us all in suspense until the final scenes of the film when we see Dufresne
finally gain his freedom with more than a little help from two lovely
ladies, Rita Hayworth and Marilyn Monroe and, of course.....his rock hammer.
As always in Prison Movies full of good guys wrongly convicted or otherwise,
there always seems to be a sadistic Warden or Captain of the Guards in the
vicinity, eager to show just who is the boss, the end of a baton, or the
door to solitary. Behind the Boss's door however was the biggest crook in
the place.....Warden Norton. Bob Gunton does well portraying the twisted
chief of Shawshank, it was a meaty role and, as it deserves gives great
credence to a pivotal character. The Shawshank Redemption is a tremendous
Movie, following a long line of films made about men behind bars....... this
is the best one.

******
11 December 1999
10

One of the most creative and satisfying cinematic endings.  I don't know
anyone who was not touched by this movie.The story of two men, Andy Dufresne and Red, takes place inside the
confined
prison walls.  Their growing friendship develops into a close bond.With the desparation of prison life, the story takes a turn for the better
at the end.  

******
8 December 1999
10

Incredible.  That's all there is to say about it.  Tim Robbin's turns in a
fantastic performance as does Morgan Freeman and all of the supporting
cast.
The story is captivating and the characters are well drawn.  All screen
writers (aspiring as well as established) need to review this movie
periodically to remember why they love movies.  Movie scores do not get
any
better than in Shawshank. 

******
6 December 1999
10

In 100 years there will be 'Casablanca.'  There will be 'Citizen Kane.'
There will be '2001, A Space Oddessy.'  There will be 'The Godfather.'  And
there will be 'The Shawshank Redemption.'  It is amazing that this much
overlooked film has in six years reached the stature of a Hollywood legend,
not only in my estimation but in the opinion of almost everyone I've spoken
to about it.  This movie has gained a larger audience through word of mouth
than it had the entire time it was in the theaters.  This is quite simply
one of the three best movies I've ever seen.

******
4 December 1999
10

"Fear can hold you prisoner, hope can set you free."
The Shawshank Redemption is the very touching story of a man who makes
mistakes with his life and is imprisioned.  While there, Andy (Tim Robbins)
is faced with some very cruel people, including Byron Hadley(Clancy Brown)
and a group of inmates called "the sisters".  But he also meets a man named
Ellis Redding (played by the oh so talented Morgan Freeman) and forms a
heart warming friendship.  Basically, Andy Dufresne goes through many life
trials which will chill your blood, make your heart race, bring a tear to
your eye, and a smile to your lip. Wonderful movie, my all time favorite.
This is also based on the short story "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption" written by my favorite author, Stephen King.This movie also has MANY wonderful monologues and great quotes.Please watch, and I am sure you will enjoy.
"Get busy livin', or get busy dyin'."
~~ML

******
30 November 1999
9

I've seen this film and,as I like this kind of movies I decided to comment
about it. The main character believes he doesn't deserve the guilt and try
during twenty years, to find a way to escape. But the best thing of the
film
is the friendship that he developed with the other prisoner. A friendship
that remained after they got out of the prison. Is really interesting to
see
this movie and think a little bit in the destiny that our lives can take
someday.

******
28 November 1999
9

THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION has recently been one of the many movies to be
overplayed on a network owned by Ted Turner. This is ironic because this was
a box office disappointment. How come no one saw this in theaters? Probably
because there's virtually no women. And an R-rated movie with no women means
no naked breasts to the guys in America.But after useless Oscar nominations and a strong audience on video,
SHAWSHANK is now considered an agreeably entertaining and moving prison
classic. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are perfectly cast together, probably because
they are similar kinds of actors. They shine very well when the are
side-by-side with another respectable actor. Look at Freeman co-star with
Jessica Tandy, Brad Pitt, Denzel Washington, or Kevin Costner. Seem him hold
his own in LEAN ON ME or DEEP IMPACT. Look at Robbins co-star with Susan
Sarandon, Jeff Bridges, Robin Williams, or Martin Lawerence. See him hold
his own in JACOB'S LADDER or THE PLAYER (among other great Altman movies).
But what really makes the two relate is the fact that they are fine actors
that have proved themselves in fine movies, yet we overlook them when we
name living actors who we admire.If you haven't seen this film yet, you will admire the crafty ending as well
as the story or ultimately, the whole movie. The characters are strongly structured and are never overshadowed by Robbins
or Freeman, though those are the two to look at.The only flaw that I find irritating in this film is the mysterious
disappearance of William Sadler's stutter. Did it escape
prison?I have yet to see if THE GREEN MILE surpasses this beaut of cinematic
storytelling, but even if it does, this is a movie to be
remembered.

******
28 November 1999
9

A great film for those who enjoy prison-escape-type films and also for
Stephen King fans. Brilliant performances from Tim Robbins (Jacobs Ladder)
and Morgan Freeman (Se7en) emphasize the intricate and clever plot. A must
for everyone who's even just slightly fond of watching movies
!!

******
24 November 1999
9

A lot of The Shawshank Redemption points to one theme, never give up. We
have a hero, will played by Tim Robbins, pitted against corrupt prison
guards and an evil warden. We wonder how he will survive the oppressive
prison system and the cruel inmates. This is pretty standard but what makes
Shawshank special is the connection between the Robbins character and
another inmate in the prison played by Morgan Freeman who also narrates much
of the film. The relationship between these two is one of discovery not only
of inner strength but also how strong a friendship can be.Much of The Shawshank Redemption is mood and emotion. We feel terror, heat,
boredom and anger. Every aspect of the movie is a quality piece of work to
drive home the feelings of the story. The entire cast is very good in how
they fit into this closed often horrible world. Along with this praise comes some criticism. In the middle of Shawshank I
thought that the pace was too slow. I know we are supposed to see bored
inmates but boring the viewer isn't the way to go. I won't give away the
ending but it has a fantasy quality about it that just doesn't fit the very
real nature of most of the movie. It's a Hollywood ending tacked on to a
more serious film. The Shawshank Redemption is a quality effort and is a welcome change from
the routine action, horror or romance junk food films that are mostly
released today. It takes a hard view of life but also shows the unbending
will of the human spirit.  


******
24 November 1999
10

This is a rare movie that deserves a 10 - My reasoning; that I would not
change one single, solitary thing about it, period.This is arguably my favorite movie of all time.  It fails to become boring
despite repeated viewings.

******
21 November 1999
9

     "The Shawshank Redemption" is one of my all time favorite movies. It
tells the story about one man's journey through prison and his struggle to
find a purpose in his life, in prison he meets a new good friend , Andy
Dufresne, a man wrongfully accused of viciously murdering his wife.     In a way this movie is two movies rapped up into one. It not only tells
the unfortunate story of a normal man in prison, and what he does there. But
it also is about a man rightfully accused of murder, and does his time in
prison, we find he only committed this crime as a young, stupid kid, and is
full of regret, he has become wise in prison and becomes rehabilitated for
normal life, he is no longer a danger to society.      His struggle to be free and search for meaning in his life is his main
passion. He is convinced that hope can destroy a man, hope is not a good
thing. While Andy believes that hope is the only friend one can have in
prison, in solitary, hope is the only way out. Andy acts as Red's mentor and
guides him to the right way of thinking. This all leads up to Andy's need of
Red, and finally one of the most moving endings in movie history.     Tim Robbins is excellent in the movie. He gives the performance of his
life and plays Andy Dufresne to perfection. Morgan Freeman is also very
good. It shows the ups and downs in Red's life, and the way of life for a
prison inmate. While also showing the meaning of hope and how hope can keep
a man's faith, and as a result, himself, alive. Don't miss this, you really
need to see this movie several times to completely appreciate it. But even
seeing it once is heart-warming enough.

******
20 November 1999
10

This is the second best movie ever, with only "Heat" beating it out. 
Stephen King is a great writer, this being the second best novella in
"Different Seasons," "Apt Pupil" being the best of the four stories(I
haven't seen the movie yet).  Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins work well
together, and Thomas Newman's original music is great.  "Hope Springs
Eternal."

******
17 November 1999
10

I really don't like Stephen King very much, but every once in a while he
really surprises me (Stand By Me and Shawshank Redemption).  I also am not
a
very big fan of prison movies either, but this definitely is the exception.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are both outstanding in this film.  Their
characters are completely convincing.  This is the best film of the 1990's
in my opinion, and my favorite of all time.

******
17 November 1999
10

This is one of the greatest films that I have ever seen.  This is a great
story about one man's struggle for hope.  Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman
are
exceptional as you really begin to feel for their characters.  Every time I
see this movie, I have to smile at the ending, and in a way I'm shocked,
even though I know what's going to happen.  All in all, a great viewing
experience, and #2 on my list of the greatest movies of
all-time.

******
11 November 1999
8

i love love love love love this movie!  I dont know how many movies i can
say that i've walked away from feeling completely overcome with happiness
and satisfaction, but i know this is one of them.  this is one of my
favorite movies!  i can't remember the last movie that i cried with
happiness at the end.  "Different Seasons" is a great collection of King
stories, and two of his best movie adaptations have been taken from it:
shawshank and "Stand by Me."
i thought it was nice to see a movie that relied on something other than
sex
and violence, and makes the viewer feel so wonderful afterwards!
a must must must see!

******
10 November 1999
10

This film is purely exceptional in every respect, and as such is in my
opinion the greatest film ever made.  The performances from lead characters
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are brilliant in every way, they are both
moving and totally believable, tacing the viewer on a rollercoaster of
emotions before leaving them in a ending that is unforgettable.The story of Andy Dufresne's tenure at Shawshank Prison is an inspirational
story, and whether you want a great drama, or just an entertaining night's
viewing this film is a must see!  

******
8 November 1999
10

This film is a beautiful story about what faith and hope and passion are
about.  The struggle between the desire for something more and the
resignation about your lot in life.  On many levels this film challenges
you
to both seize the day and overcome fear and limitations about yourself.
All
without a preach-y tone or a moralistic attitude and with lots of
interesting characters and action.  This movie also offers insight into the
truth that can be found in a real friendship.I highly recommend this movie to anyone.

******
5 November 1999
10

I've seen this film before and saw it once again on video. So far, this is
only ONE OF TWO movies on which i have given 10/10. This movie is very
excellent from its plot development to the performances. I only wish good
movies would spring rather than the pieces of trash we have today.


******
5 November 1999
10

Few films capture the triumph of the human spirit the way that The
Shawshank
Redemption did.  Not only was it an original true-to-life story, it added a
touch of comedy and a heart-warming story of friendship.  At first, I
expected little from this movie (granted I was 12), but it has quickly
grown
into my very favorite movie of all time; and it competes with Schindler's
List and GoodFellas for the best movie of the decade.  As the 90's come to
an end, we see a familiar theme in cinema: destruction and armageddon
(literally); it is good to see a reversal in a beautiful film from
promising
young talent (Darabont).  

******
3 November 1999
10

I don't know why so many people saying that this movie is not so very
special. Maybe it's because they don't have seen it multiple times. This
film gets bigger every time you watch it. I have watched this movie more
than 10 times. And my opinion is that this is the greatest movie ever made,
and that you have to go and see it. NOW!

******
2 November 1999
10

it is great to see that this movie is in the top 5. this is where it
belongs.  one of the greatest movies of all time.  what made it great was
they showed how two had struggles of their own in prison.  one wanted to
get
out, and does after 19 years,  and the other makes parole as an old man and
almost feels he serves no purpose in the outside world and feels that jail
is where he belongs.  this is one of my most favorite movies and its hard
too see how some didn't like it
10/10

******
31 October 1999
9

I didn´t expect much from this film before I saw it. It had OK stars, the
plot sounded pretty familiar and it was originally a Stephen King story.
Once I started watching it I thought: "Hey! This is pretty good!". And it
got better as it went along. The story was was a perfect mix of high drama
and "feelgood" quality. It didn´t matter it was long and the story went
along slowly. It was all build-up for the amazing ending which caught me by
surprise. Somehow the film has a sense of being more than it seems at
first,
it´s really an epic story of one man´s determination against the system (or
even his given destiny!). If you´ve never seen this film, go see it -you
won´t be disappointed! 

******
29 October 1999
10

Very rarely does a movie come along that inspires people to hold on to
their
faintest hopes.  'The Shawshank Redemption' is just such a movie.  Have you
ever felt like all hope was lost?  Tim Robbins plays a wrongfully convicted
man who very easily could have let his hopes die, but instead decides to
patiently plot his escape to freedom.  Excellent performances make this
movie an incredible can't miss.

******
27 October 1999
10

I've seen some good movies in my time (The Godfather part1 + 2 come to
mind), but, I can honestly say that none have moved me like this. I love
the
sence of hope that it gives anyone, and the fact that despite everything
else, Andy Dufrense, still has hope.
"Get Busy livin' or get busy dyin'!"
A friend of mine recomended it to me, as the greatest movie he's ever seen.
I have to agree.>I just loved it, and with Hollywood would try harder at making good movies
as opposed to trashy, shallow, movies that are aimed at the lowest common
denominator.Rating out-of-10? Guess!


******
27 October 1999
8

In my opinion, this is the best adaptation of a Stephen King work ever
done.
It is totally involving from start to finish, and has one of the most
satisfying conclusions I've ever seen.  It is one of those intriguing films
which cause you to work backward in your mind from the climax to figure out
how it all happened. 

******
25 October 1999
10

When acting is so good and a story is so engrossing, it's not unusual for
such a movie to be enjoyed over and over again. No special effects, no
complex story line, just a tale of the human spirit that captured my
attention as well as my heart. 

******
24 October 1999
8

What praises can I sing about this movie that haven't been sung already? 
However, what this movie DID do was surprise me.  I don't know whether I
should have expected the movie's ending or not, but all the same it did give
me a bit of a shock.  While some of the things have been seen before many
times (the bible-thumping hypocritical warden, for one), I was pleased with
some of the lines from the movie ("Trust in the Lord...your ass belongs to
me."), and delighted with how the movie was wrapped up so neatly.  See this
movie not as an artsy, thematic flick, but see it as an excellent, expertly
done story, and you will agree with me when I say it's one of the five best
movies of our decade.  


******
22 October 1999
10

OK.  This is definitely my favorite movie of all time.  The acting by all
actors is superb, especially the roles of Dufresne and Red, played by Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman.  I have been a fan of the story by Stephen King
ever since I read it in high school.  When I heard that Frank Darabont, who
also directed a short King film (The Woman in the Room) in 1983, would be
writing the screenplay and directing I was ecstatic.  This film could not
have been adapted better by Kubrick or King himself.  Can't wait for The
Green Mile, Frank.

******
22 October 1999
10

If you haven't seen this masterpiece, you need to watch it.  If you look
at the voting, 47.3% of the voters have given it a 10.  I'd give it a 12,
it's the best movie I've ever seen.  This movie is hilarious at times, but
parts of it can make you cry, it ends on a perfect note and has a great
cast.  I've seen this movie multiple times, and like it more every time. 


******
21 October 1999
10

This is by far and away the best movie I have ever seen.   If you
haven't seen it, do so.  (If you don't know the movies outcome, definately
see it!).Everything about this movie is outstanding.  What most people notice first
about great movies is the fine acting.  Not only is this film's acting
superb, but the script, the costumes, the scenery, the
directing...everything...just outstanding.  Rent it for the first
time...rent it again...I recently sat through TNT's double presentation, and
it still had me totally absorbed, even the second time around.

******
20 October 1999
10

The makers of this film have proved that in the last 20 years the true
meaning of film has not been lost. This film was terrifc. It was amazing. It
was the best script I ever heard. A true master-piece. The acting was great.
The film involved so much. Anger, hate, love, friendship, hope, sadness,
happiness, freedom and it dealt with all emotions. It was truely a
magnificent motion picture. The film gives off true feelings of life. True
emotions. The sadness and loneliness in life.The film tells you that hope is not sometime that is good and this is so
true. The script tells you another part of life. It has a happy ending but
it goes through all the parts of life. It is a movie based on life. It is
all about life. To be free.The story is a man who is wrongly accused for a crime he did not commit and
sent to jail where he meets a man who guides and helps him along the way.I give this film 10 OUT OF 10. It is absolutley brilliant.

******
18 October 1999
10

I dont really think anyone can put into words the greatness of this movie.
This is a movie that truly makes you feel for the characters. No special
effects, no action scenes, no big budgets, no dance floor soundtrack.  This
movie is sheer genius.So many prison movies have been made before but you never get a hint of a
feeling of how is must really feel like to be jailed for life.  This movie
got me well and truly depressed.  I really felt for the characters of Andy
and Red.  Two decent human beings with a true friendship, stuck in jail
watching their lives go by within the inescapable prison walls.  The
projection of the prison, its guardians and its system was superb.  You
realise that the prison is a world of its own, and with time, in order to
survive you have to learn to accept that world and forget about the outside,
or do you?  This movie in a way tests you.  'Hope is a good thing, maybe the
best of things' says Red at the end.  But near the end, I found myself
losing hope altogether.  I felt that this movie would end with Red and
possibly Andy dying in prison.  I do not get at all emotional when watching
a movie, but the closing scene brought tears to my eyes and a lump in my
throat, and I still get choked at that scene everytime I watch it.  The
scene and narration with Brooks in the half-way house is also very powerful.The discussion between Andy and Red after Andy's time in solitary is
spell-binding. Some scenes are shocking.  By the way I have probably seen
this movie 30-40 or so times and still watch it.The music (especially when Andy arrives at Shawshank in the prison bus shown
in an overhead shot, simply beautiful!!), the story, the direction, the
acting, the cinematography, the characterisation.  I honestly cannot fault
this movie and I think it is simply criminal that this movie did not win any
Oscars.  I think that by comparison, Forrest Gump was a load of rediculous
mindless trash.  I just could not understand what the fuss was about with
Forrest Gump.  But thats another story.  Another example of Big Budget
nonsense over-shadowing good quality movies.  The Shawshank Redemption is in
a league of its own and Tim Robbins deserved an Oscar for best actor as did
Morgan Freeman for supporting actor in his portrayal of
Red.This movie is also an eye opener for so called 'expert critics'.  Just go
back and see the initial reviews this movie got when it was first released.
I personally never go on what these critics have to say and movies like The
Shawshank Redemption remind me why.  No wonder they're always giving 'two
thumbs up' for every half baked movie that comes along.  They're probably
all thumbs and no fingers.The Shawshank Redemption is my all time favourite and I'll give this movie
two thumbs + eight fingers = 10 out of 10

******
17 October 1999
8

   Interesting study of wrongly-convicted Robbins sent to jail and abused by
evil warden and (initially) fellow prisoners.  As film develops, Robbins
turns tables on everyone.  Understated  performance by the lead; Morgan
Freeman, as a fellow prisoner, actually drives this flick.  Didn't see where
this differed from half a dozen other good prison movies, but that's why
they make all those flavors.  Very satisfying resolution.

******
17 October 1999
9

I'm not a fan of violent prison movies and I certainly don't watch them
twice. Shawshank Redemption is the first exception to that rule. I have to
admit, that I hated the few violence scenes and the shooting, but in this
movie it was necessary to convey the message of hope. Although I think that
this is a wonderful, touching movie, I think it's also a fairy tale.
Everything that happens to the main character is an exception, rather than a
rule which weakens the movie. Other than that, it's a marvelous story about friendship, survival and hope.
Watch and see for yourself how a person survives hell on earth.


******
16 October 1999
9

Okay, the first 20 minutes you think this is a regular movie you have seen
a
hundred times. But then you are wrong. The Shawshank Redemption is a movie
you`ll never forget. Morgan Freeman, not to mention Tim Robbins, both make
this movie unforgettable!  

******
15 October 1999
10

What can I say? It is well worth the viewing. Breathtaking.
>Leaves you in awe. You laugh and cry, and feel glad to be alive
>after this movie is through with you. One to own and watch over
>and over. I highly recommend 

******
12 October 1999
10

The Shawshank Redemption came out better on screen than it was in print.
Brilliant performances by Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, and a stellar
supporting cast leaves a lasting imprint on the viewer. With a superb score
and dynamic lighting and sets, this movie should be THE example by which
other movies compare to and work by.THUMBS WAY UP!

******
9 October 1999
10

Tim Robbins (I.Q.) "Andy Dufresne" accused and convicted of the murder of
his wife, is sent a prison called Shawshank. Morgan Freeman (Driving Miss
Daisy) "Red" is also in prison and he can get things from the outside world.
Because of that, they become best friends. This movie is full of hope.  It
has such sweet moments in such a terrible place as a jail.  I have never
watched a movie about a jail that is as positive as this one. It is the best
movie on the subject. It has great dialogue, gives the audience the sense of
constant cheering for Andy because he is so ingenious. The little glasses
fit the character. Andy is brilliant indeed.  I applauded him for things
that he did, which are also my favorite scenes: the idea of walking around
the jail yard and the discharging of the powder that he made out of the jail
wall, was just remarkable;  the big posters such as one of  Rita Hayworth
later Rachel Welch,  on the wall;  the creation of the library;  the
transfer of bank funds;  getting that hypocrite jail warden caught;  leaving
clues for Red after he was paroled. Very few things in life are better than
meeting your best friend by the blue waters of the ocean. I love the ending.
This movie is part of our video library and I have watched it several times
and I still get hyper about the stuff that Andy does. 
Favorite Quote: Red: "Geology is the study of pressure and time that is all
it really,  pressure and time." 

******
9 October 1999
10

This movie is truly my favorite film of all time.  It certainly should
have
won the Oscar for Best Picture of 1994.  Unfortunately, Forrest Gump and
Tom
Hanks were out and about that year as well, so Shawshank took a back seat.
It never should have.  This is the most well-acted, scripted, directed and
filmed movie I have seen to date.  From the narration to the awe-inspiring
ending, this movie is, quite simply, perfect.  I've not been able to say
that about another movie before or since.

******
8 October 1999
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of my favorite films of all time because it
triumphs in capturing human feelings through it's acting, music, scenery
and
many moods.  Although the story takes place in a bitter prison, we all can
relate to the feelings of dispair and the bonding of true friends and the
hope that it brings.  A masterpiece.

******
6 October 1999
10

Sometimes (or, maybe, most times) fear of something that can become real is
the greatest fear of all. Fans of Stephen King horror books and films might
not agree, but I think that this might be the best filming of a Stephen
King
book ever. HORROR VACUI, the fear of the void, the fear of the unknown, is
the breakpoint from which everybody goes either up or down.This whole movie is about the real meaning of freedom, what it is and what
it means to us. Those who have already seen it a couple of times know that
each watching reveals another story beneath a story, and that in the end
you
end up asking yourself if it was not the best lecture on the thinness of
the
line between good and bad that you would ever have.Not for a single moment your attention falters from what happens on the big
screen. Superbly directed and superbly cast, this movie might as well be
compared to a superbly orchestrated and performed symphony.A must for everyone out for a good feature!

******
4 October 1999
10

Especially in this film.  He can break your heart or make you laugh,  and
that's before he speaks.  He will have you cheering at the end when "Red"
gets  in front of the parole board.  I watched this only because someone
told me it was great.  It didn't look like a movie I'd like.  Prison dramas
aren't generally my thing.  This one is different.  The first half is brutal
and at times difficult to watch, but it helps set the story in motion.  You
really feel you are there with Andy and Red.  One of my favorite scenes is
when the prisoners are on the roof of the prison drinking beer.  You have to
see it to understand what I mean.  There isn't enough adjectives to describe
this film I can only say that this one is definitely a must see. This one is
right up there with "Amadeus" as my two favorite movies of all time.  Please
do not miss it.


******
4 October 1999
10

I groaned when there was nothing on TV that day so I decided to do the
Pay-Per-View thing and pick a random movie. So I saw Shawshank, never having
heard a word about it, merely because I liked Morgan Freeman. I was glued to
the screen for those two and a half hours. Stephen King created one of the
most poignant tales of hope in a modern era, Frank Darabont made every scene
breathtakingly beautiful, and the cast was superb.Shawshank definitely has the most satisfying ending in all of movie history.
Although your first watch is the greatest, every viewing reveals a different
layer of the story. You begin to see prison through the eyes of Red, Brooks,
Haywood, Tommy - even Warden Norton and Byron Hadley.It is my favorite movie and it has some of the most inspirational lines in
it. "Some birds aren't meant to be caged, their feathers are far too
bright..."Please see this movie. It is wonderful.

******
3 October 1999
9

I first rented this movie because I had heard it was good and because it
was
there. Through the first half hour, I thought it was entertaining at most,
but after the scene where the one man is beaten and nobody cares, I was
totally engulfed in this film. There is nothing wrong with this movie.
Every
action, every word spoken is absolutely perfect. After seeing it half a
million times, I can quote it word for word. I still smile with utter joy
in
the end and get choked up during the scene with Brooks. Frank Darabont is
one of the greatest directors I have ever seen, and it is a shame that he
has only made a few movies. The music in this movie is also perfect. If
you
haven't seen this movie, which I am surprised to hear that many people
have
not, you should rent it immediately. Nevermind, don't just rent it.... buy
it. You will not regret it. Ten out of ten! > 

******
1 October 1999
10

story was excellent. i like it when i can relate to a man who is in
prison--even though i haven't been to one. my guess is the author's
connected me through human emotions and the basic human condition to his
characters. acting left nothing to be desired.i particularly appreciated symbology of the film: cigarettes were money,
perverted sex was the norm, corruption from the top down, where's my life
going? it doesn't sound like a prison film necessarily.


******
27 September 1999
10

I went to this movie on spec when it first came out.  Little was
I to know that it was to become my favorite movie of all
time.
From the very beginning shot of the prison, to the last shot of the beach
in
Mexico, the movie had me in every emotion possible. Fear, joy, laughter,
sadness, despair and hope.
The acting was great, Freeman was robbed for not getting a deserved Oscar
for this movie.
It is one of those rare movies which you can sit down to over and over
again.

******
26 September 1999
10

This movie was very entertaining. The acting of morgan freeman and tim
robbins, were exceptional, as well as the other actors. Even though very
violent, it's extremely entertaining. The script was very good, and had some
humorous lines, which were hard to notice. This movie is one of the best
ever, and should have one for best picture, best actor and best director.
One of Stephan Kings best novels, to become a classic motion
picture.

******
24 September 1999
10

Years ago I decided to start collecting Stephen King paperback editions (and
reading them, too) to prop up my excellent English. I'd found out that in
the horror genre, everything that had something to do, had the label
'Stephen King' or 'John Carpenter' on it. Luckily both (as in 'Cat's Eye).
But as I introduced myself with Mr. King's works I found out that the
Enchantment in it isn't in the gore (which he describes splendidly, meaning
that I can smell the rottening human flesh despite the fact that my nose
exists only for cosmetical reasons) but the professional skill to tell a
story. King gets paid by the page, so nowadays he's apt to write stories up
to three bricks thick before his eyes wear out. 
Luckily, his best stories to be filmed are the ones that don't need
'overwriting',nor 'overfilming' as in mini-TV-series as 'The Stand', 'Golden
Years', and so on. 
The best way for Stephen King to make an original story for a movie seems to
be to: 1) keep it compact and 2) stay out of intestines, awkward smells and
anything that comes out of your body when you're dead).
We saw 'Stand by me me' already and 'Dolores Claiborne' afterwards, but this
is the upmost number one. When King tells a little story in size of a
novelette with no hurry at all, there should be nothing to add. But: then
comes the movie with its more than perfect casting plus the original
serenity maintained! 
I conclude my speech with saying that no other movie ever has collected full
10 points, horror or not.

******
24 September 1999
10

The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that many people can relate to,
especially if you had to overcome an unexpected experience that left you
institutionalized and scarred.  People are not institutionalized only in
prisons and hospitals, but in schools, colleges, broken families, society,
and other organizations.  Trying to liberate ourselves from our
conservative
past or beliefs is not an easy process.The Shawshank Redemption is one movie that can help start that process.
It's a movie that can be watched repeatedly and after each time, even the
most savvy critic may be enlightened by the depth and development of the
characters, the smooth yet scintillating story line, the reoccuring
symbolic
themes, the uninhibited realism, the scenes and music ranging from the
cold
gothic prison architecture to the oak tree from a Robert Frost poem, and
many uninvited personal insights we hold dearly and secretly to ourselves.
Watching the movie over and over again is similar to a religious baptism
where your past sins and crimes are washed away by the never-ending hope
that you'll be free to achieve your highest dreams.  I'm not going to
reiterate the plot, dialogue, and other highlights of the film.  The movie
speaks for itself.The plethora of movies in this time makes it difficult to dig and find the
very few movies that exuberate the same effect as the Shawshank
Redemption.
The purpose of these reviews (also under Leonardo (24601-6) and Leonardo)
is
to express my tastes and to invite anyone with similar opinions to
recommend
movies on the same caliber.It is my all-time personal favorite movie--the only one I would give a
10/10.  

******
22 September 1999
10

What can I say that hasn't been said.  The beauty of this movie can hardly
be put into words.  The more I watch it, the better it gets.  Mr. Darabont
did a beautiful job of directing, I'm anxiously awaiting "The Green Mile"
now.  The little scenes are what makes it beautiful.  Andy on the roof with
his smile and the aerial shot of the prison while the music is playing.  I
don't want to spoil anything, but the quotes are what will stay with you. 
After seeing this film (way too many times according to those around me),
I've adopted my particular philosophy from it.  As Red says, "Get busy
livin', or get busy dyin'.  That's goddamn right".  See this movie and vote
it back up to #1 on the IMDB list.

******
10 September 1999
10

There is only one film better than this masterpiece... TITANIC.  It is truly
a moving and glorious story about what is most important in our lives. 
Friendship, love, hope and belonging.  The roof-top scene is one I will
never forget.  The acting by both leads is subtly magnificent.  The script
can throw you into tears at any time.  It is not simply a prison flick or a
buddy flick.  I find it amazing how many people feel the same way I do about
this film.  I've read the comments and over and over again the same words...
The best film of all time.  Of course, time will tell it's legacy... it is
still very young.  No one went to see it when it came out but people have
discovored it over the years.  Word of mouth has transformed this quiet film
into one of the most praised films ever.  Congratulations to all those who
were a part of the making of this film, and to all those who have the soul
to understand it.  Old souls will love the film.  Steer clear if you like
Bruckheimer films... this slice of cinematic beauty is not for you.  I LOVE
THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION!!!  I am a better person for having watched it.  I
love film more than ever after having watched it.  I can't imagine the world
of film without it.   TOP TEN FILMS EVER - 1.TITANIC
2.SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION
3.SCHINDLER'S LIST
4.SWINGERS
5.PULP FICTION
6.LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL
7.THE ENGLISH PATIENT
8.BRAVEHEART
9.WHEN HARRY MET SALLY
10.A SIMPLE PLAN

******
6 September 1999
10

Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman headline this movie based on a story by
Stephen King.
Robbins is Andy, a banker falsely accused and convicted of the murder of his
wife and her lover. 
When he arrives at the prison he is expected to crack under the pressure of
prison life, but he surprises Freeman's character by surely moving through
as time passes no matter what the prison throws at him. He begins making
inroads with both the prisoners and the guards and warden.He sets up a tax service that all the guards from the prison and surrounding
prisons use.
When a lead surfaces on the possibility of Andy being innocent the warden
who has used Andy to set up illegal accounts to hide money, has it snuffed
out so he can keep Andy inside. This set Andy on the final course of action
in the movie.
The Shawshank Redemption is a fantastic movie with great performances  from
all of its actors. A definite movie to add to any collection. See it as soon
as you can.

******
4 September 1999
10

Without a doubt, The Shawshank Redemption is one of the absolute best movies
that I have ever seen.  Seeing a movie with characters that seem so true to
life that I could actually care for them was a rare and very welcome
experience for me.  The film was made in such a way that you didn't really
know how it was going to end, but what an ending indeed.  I thought it was
one of the most rewarding endings to a movie in recent
history.
I don't know how this movie was passed up for an Academy Award for best
picture, or at least a nomination, amazes me.  Well deserving of its rank of
#4 in the top 250 movies of all time.

******
3 September 1999
10

First time I saw this, I was blown away. Second time, I was amazed even
more. The movie sucks you in and doesn't let you till the awesome end.
Morgan Freeman gives one of the best performances I have ever seen as well
as Tim Robbins, and the rest of the stellar cast. Hard to believe Morgan
started his big screen career 12 years ago. I think if he started acting in
Hollywood when he was 20 instead of 50, he would have quite a few Oscars
under his belt.Why does this film get better and better? Probably because you can find new
things in each viewing. Knowing what will happen allows you to look around
and check out the surroundings. You can see little things that contribute to
understanding the story better.SPOILER ALERT!The best part? The very end when Andy Dufresne escapes and shows that with
determination, that a person can do anything they want including getting
away from a prison after digging a hole in the wall for 19
years.SPOILER END!Overall, this movie is one of the best of all time. Now I will go back to
anticipating The Green Mile with Frank Darabont directing and starring Tom
Hanks.

******
30 August 1999
10

i have to say that i had to be coerced into seeing it.  my cousin told me
the title and that totally turned me off.  but after finally seeing this
masterpiece i could have shot myself for thinking the way that i did.  this
film quickly became my alltime favorite. when people had asked me before
what my favorite movie is, i had a few.  but now it is hands down my
favorite.  i could watch it 10 times a day and still want to watch it one
more time.  even though i'm only 16 i know a good movie when i see one.  i
am so disappointed in the academy for not giving it any awards.  but then
again they also didn't give jim carrey a nomination for the truman show.  so
anyone out there wants to see it, do.

******
29 August 1999
9

  I don't think this film is the number one of all time.  But than, it might
be.  I placed Casblanca and The Godfather higher because they haven't dated.
 Let's see how well the Shawshank Redemption does in twenty
years.  That said, this movie is a staggering experience.  While I didn't
experience it in theatres, I was impressed by the cinematography.  The
performances are uniformly flawless.  I can't believe that Hawthorne beat
out Robbins to a nomination.  The direction and story also make this
magnificent.  But what makes it moving, is it's theme.  In the end, it's
about hope.  Not an 'action' quality, but an important one.  It doesn't
preach, but teaches.  The music score still haunts me.  I rank it as number one of 1994, and one of the best of the
decade.

******
27 August 1999
10

I am a huge fan of Stephen King, so I had read the story. When I saw it was
being made into a movie, I was skeptical at first, as many movies do not
live up to the stories or novels they are derived from. Well this one was
far better than the story. 

******
21 August 1999
10

I am a great fan of Stephen King's books. But not his movies.
The critics are right. That includes Roger Ebert. It includes Maitlin's
Summary. It includes the Academy voters.
If you like horror movies over classics then this is a must see.But it is run-of-the-mill prison fare otherwise. Anyone remember Michael
Caine?
It is not that this isn't entertaining. It's just simply that this film
doesn't belong in the top 250. 

******
19 August 1999
10

From the same book that brought us Stand By Me and Apt Pupil comes The
Shawshank Redemption. If you haven't read this book (Different Seasons),
you'd better go buy it. And if you haven't seen Apt Pupil (very underrated
movie) go rent it.A couple things about this movie. Morgan Freeman is one of the best out
there. When I read the novella, 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption' I
had never thought that Red was a black man. Maybe he wasn't which just goes
to show what a great story and movie this was. IT DIDN'T and IT DOESN'T
MATTER that he's black or not. The other thing was that I kind of wish I
HADN'T read the story first. Knowing how it was going to end spoiled it a
little, not too much because the girl I saw it with was 100% totally
surprised when the hole in the wall was discovered. So at least I had that
prior knowledge over her. haha!Even though I gave this movie a 10 out of 10 here at IMDb, I'm surprised
it's doing battle with The Godfather and Schindler's List for the #1
position here.

******
19 August 1999
10

A great movie in all categories, the best I have ever seen. Morgan Freeman
have never played a role like this one. He is outstanding as Red. It is
also
the best movie Stephen King has ever been a part of. This is a must
see.

******
19 August 1999
10

I Saw this movie just today, on a small television in a High school class
room. I saw it in three rows, which was actually extremely annoying while
I
had to wait till the next day to see what happens. I have never seen those
pupils so quiet,
IT REALLY IS AN AMAZING FILM - GREAT acting, great scenic play and
directing
in one of the best films in my memory.
If you haven't seen it / go see it


******
18 August 1999
10
Words cannot express the impact this film has had on my cinematic life.
Every movie I have seen since "The Shawshank Redemption", has been
unfairly
compared to it. It is the single greatest acted film of all-time. From
Morgan Freeman to Tim Robbins to William Sadler to James Whitmore, the
performances were simply amazing. This ,to me, is the greatest film of all
time. What were you thinking AFI??


******
16 August 1999
10

I must say I'm very surprised at all of these positive comments.  I'm
shocked at the #2 rating. Simply because very few people I know have seen
the film. When I run into the ones who have, we end up discussing it for a
long time. That's the power this movie has.I have no reason to connect to the characters. I'm simply a young woman
and
nothing more. I've never been unjustly accused of a crime and/or thrown
into
prison. Yet somehow this alien situation becomes much larger and
universal.
You connect no matter what your circumstance is.The only disappointment I had was that I didn't get the chance to see the
film in the theaters. I avoided renting it because I thought it would be
boring. Please do not let that sway you. This is one of the most exciting
movies I have ever seen. It's my favorite movie. 

******
14 August 1999
10

What can I say that hasn't already been said.  Not much I suppose.  The
first time I saw this movie tears swelled in my eyes at the end,  a sign
that tells me that a movie is great.  It has quickly moved to the #2 movie
in my top ten list just behind Pulp Fiction.  And even though Pulp Fiction
is my favorite I think Shawshank should have won best picture.  4 out of 4
stars, two thumbs up and all that jazz.  It gets better with repeated
viewing too.  

******
14 August 1999
10

The best movie ever.  Morgan Freeman should have won the Oscar and Tim
Robbins should have been nominated. The greatest sin the
Academy of Motion Pictures ever did was not give this movie at least one
oscar win.  0 of 7 is pathetic!  the film should have won every award it
was
nominated for

******
10 August 1999
10

"The Shawshank Redemption" deserves the title of the Most Moving Movie of
All Time.Picking a list of "The Best Movies Ever" is always a ridiculous and futile
practice. A look at IMDBs top 10 shows several entirely different movies,
from "Star Wars" to "Schindler's List" and "The Godfather." The only
characteristic shared by all 10 is that they are "worth watching." So,
since
Shawshank held the #1 slot for many months, it received plenty of ranting,
illogical, completely undue criticism:* That its characters were static - Simply not true. They do become moral
icons by the end of the movie, but they evolve into their
parts.* That there is too much preaching/narration/"babying" - There is nothing
out of place in this movie. Red doesn't labor his narration because he's
pedantic, he does it because he's straightforward - this isn't a college
professor speaking - and absolutely, astoundingly beautiful. Yes, there is
the panoramic shot of the azure pacific at the end - but it dovetails
neatly
with the story - "Something that big would scare me." (Not
verbatim).* That there are perhaps 15 minutes at the end of the movie in which the
fate of the characters is clear and 5 after questions have been resolved -
This is absolutely necessary. "The Shawshank Redemption" attempts to leave
the viewer thinking about ideas, not plot twists. Though this is only ever
argued on scholastic (rather than aesthetic) grounds, even Star Wars'
ending
would have seemed abrupt without a brief, ceremonial resolution.* That its foreshadowing or narration cuts drama - missing the point. I
shutter to think of this film if told entirely from the present - it would
loose its beauty. There's deliberately a lot of "time passing" sequences.
The real reason this movie has its high ranking is that it grapples with
"hope" - and hope, like all abstract notions, becomes concrete with
introspection, and introspection takes time. This is not a "prison escape"
movie.See this movie. Think about this movie. Talk about this movie. The
Shawshank
Redemption thinks and feels more than other works of popular cinema, and
demands that viewers do the same. I almost envy anyone who hasn't seen it
yet; the first viewing is absolutely magical.

******
10 August 1999
10

I've recently been going through my vast collection of videos, replaying
my
favorites in an effort to determine which is best.Without question, "Shawshank Redemption" towers above all the others, even
"The Godfather," which slightly outranks it in the IMDb list of 250 best
movies.I have also taken the trouble of looking up most of the reviews of the
movie, and I remain puzzled at the criticism that even such respected
critics as Roger Ebert gave the movie. The most prevalent criticism is
that
the movie is too long. I don't agree. "Shawshank" is perfectly paced.
Another criticism, that the story-line is predictable, is absurd. What
makes
"Shawshank" stand out from all other movies is that nothing that happens
in
it has ever happened in a movie before. It is sui generis, in a class by
itself. If you've seen it, you'll know what I mean. If you haven't seen
it,
drop everything else and get ahold of it.

******
8 August 1999
9

This film combines great acting and intense plot to form a truly powerful
movie. I does not matter what genre you like this film will make you feel
for the characters. The best Stephen King movie by far. When watching the
film to really get into it watch it without your friends
around.

******
4 August 1999
8

The only reason I rented this title was because I've seen its rating in the
IMDB. Well I was hoping for a thrilling experience, a work of art at least.
C'mon you raters! This is simply a good film! It's ok to watch, but if you
were hoping for something better than good, then you will be disappointed.
There are so many better films than this! Now, talking about the film, Tim
Robbins was not the ideal match for this role and Morgan Freeman was ok for
a nice old man in a Midwest bar, but definitely not for a murder convict. In
general the atmosphere in the jail was laughable. So many good men, you
would believe it was the Sunday mass.

******
4 August 1999
9

"The Shawshank Redemption" is nearly poetic, but misses slightly because of
its straight-forward telling.  That isn't a flaw really.  It's just that
considering some of the powerful human emotions and grandiose spritual
scenes displayed, the film could have been legendary.  Still, this film is
destined to be a classic and rightfully so.  Stephen King hasn't written
another story that was better (Title "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption" in the book "Diffrent Seasons" which also contains "The Body"
which was made into another great movie, "Stand By Me" starring River
Phoenix).  Tim Robbins and especially Morgan Freeman are outstanding.  Drama
rarely gets muchs better than this and the solitude of human existence is
depressingly displayed here.  Wonderful, wonderful!Oh yeah, Morgan Freeman's explanation for being named "Red" is probably one
of the purely humorous things you'll ever hear.

******
29 July 1999
10

I can't add very much to the previous descriptions and praise of this movie;
I just want to say that it deserves its #1 standing at IMDb and I hope it
holds that place forever.  A brilliant film that speaks to the humanity in
all of us.

******
28 July 1999
10

The Shawshank Redemption is, without peer, the best movie of all time.
Although it may have a somewhat limited plot ( then again which film
doesn't?) it makes this up with the sequences of bizarre twists and
turns.Andy Dufrene claims he was wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover.
The prison he is sent to is brutal - a hypocritical
church-going warden who murders inmates for his own gain - and sodomy is
prevalent. Andy's character is determined to survive through all of his
hardships.The rest of the characters are so complex that to describe them would merely
dampen everyone elses opinion on the film. I know it was nominated for some
Academy Awards, and didn't win any, but it deserved more than
Titanic!It is didactic and its main theme is hope. In fact the last few lines of the
film always bring tears to my eyes - "I hope to see my friend, and shake his
hand. I hope the Pacific is as blue as it has been in my mind. I hope."
These words, uttered by Morgan Freemon are truely inspirational
words.My opinion is watch this movie as often as possible, and learn from
it.The Shawshank Redemption - the best movie ever!!

******
24 July 1999
10

I can see it again and again, this is without a doubt the best movie ever
made! I love everything about it, and if you have'nt seen it yet, I must
urge you to run to the nearest video store and get yourself a copy.  I'll
bet you'll love it!

******
17 July 1999
10

This film is about one thing and one thing only:
HOPE. Hope will get you through anything!Oh, and if you haven't already done so, don't bother reading the Stephen
King novella from which this film is based. It foreshadows the ending a
little too much and takes away that anxiety you get as you near the end of
the film.  

******
15 July 1999
10

There are a few mistakes in this movie, but nothing real significant. The
dialogue, and Morgan Freeman's monologue were perfect; went perfectly with
the flow of the movie. This movie has the best finale of any movie that
I've
ever seen. 

******
15 July 1999
10

One of the best films ever made.  I thought it was very spiritual, in the
sense that I learned a very
powerful lesson that has helped me in my daily living.  Never give up hope.
Acting is superb, directing is great, story is wonderful.  Highest
recommendation.

******
10 July 1999
10

I am 14, and I saw this movie just an hour ago. Although I am naive and
still a child, this movie was a great movie that makes you think. It is
one
of the(if not)great movies of all time.

******
9 July 1999
10

Here is a Film that shows you how vicious, and how humane, humans can be.
Andy and Red are 2 of the most honest and memorable characters ever made,
next to Dr. Strangelove and Charles Kane.  If u want to see real human
drama
at its peak, see the Shawshank Redemption at least 2 times.

******
7 July 1999
10

I find it hard to believe how I missed this movie in the theaters.  A
friend
of mine told me I should see this movie when it was taken off the new
release rack.  I looked at it and just shuddered.  He had to rent the
movie
himself and drag me into his dorm room physically before I saw
it.I can't believe how good it was.  He paused it for 10 minutes in the
middle
so he could answer the phone and I went nuts.  I couldn't wait to see the
rest of it.I can't wait until this comes out on DVD.  Until then, I will settle for
my
VHS copy.  Go see this movie.  :)10 out of 10

******
1 July 1999
10

Freeman's performance was excellent. The scene near the end with the
parole
board was priceless albeit a bit contrived. The predictable ending would
have been more convincing had it been filmed in a less-remote location.
Chances of Freeman's character finding that particular scene at that
particular time was just not convincing. Nonetheless, too nice a film not
to
see again and again. 

******
24 June 1999
10

This movie, based on a short stoy by Stehpen King, is easily one on the
best
movies made in the modern era of Hollywood.  It incorporates a touching
story of friends and hope, top-notch acting, excellent directing and most
important; a screenplay worthy of high marks.  With beautiful photography
and a story that is best described as "uplifting". this is one of my
favorite movies EVER.  The best line in the movie goes "it all comes down
to
one thing; get busy living or get busy dyin'".  A rating of 10 out of 10
was
given.

******
18 June 1999
10

I remembered reading Stephen King's original short story many moons before
I
saw the screen translation, but I'm very thankful that I couldn't remember
the twist towards the end.  The discovery as to what Andy's posters were
REALLY used for totally changes the feel of the film, and I defy anyone to
be unmoved.This is easily the best King screen adaption, and is hardly likely to be
bettered.  It really is excellent, and it's hard to know what to praise it
for most, but it's perhaps the only film I've ever seen that made my heart
soar at the fate of it's main characters as if they were real
people.As I write this, The Shawshank Redemption has been voted the #1 film on
IMDB, which is a very pleasing surprise as it really is
deserved.

******
18 June 1999
10

This film was great - and that's a poor way to describe it. IT was
fantastic!!! You see into the lives of Andy and Red and all the others in
Shawshank. Not only do you gain insight as to how the prisoners live, but
also how they work and live with one another, and how badly they are
treated
at times, by both fellow prisoners and by the guards. This movie also
shows
how that in some cases instead of preparing a prisoner for life back on
the
streets, prison will make them prepared for life only on the inside. The
example of this is the elderly librarian prisoner. He has been in prison
for
many many years, and finally he is let out. This
movie is a must see for anyone who likes a good prison movie or just one
that seems to be real life. 

******
16 June 1999
10

One of the best films I´ve ever seen. In the end I cried like a baby.
Don´t
miss this excellent movie. 

******
15 June 1999
10

I just visited a prison museum in north China, which was a real prison used
in early 1900s.  This movie reminds me of horrible dark room, sodomy, and
brutal corporal punishment that actually can happen to you in the jail.Whether you are innocent or not, once you are IN the jail. You are all the
same. Your are finished. But, Andy Dufresne(Tim Robbins) is not. With hope
and his persistence, he escaped from jail after 20 years. Imagine to dig a
big cement hole with the small stone hatchet! Amazing.Where there is a will, there is a way. This movie is encouraging.

******
15 June 1999
7

I'm afraid that I must join the chorus of those that question the
placement
of this movie at the top of the rankings. Although I enjoy the movie a
great
deal, it is mainly because of the superb job done by the actors,
especially
the leads. Without that, I don't think the movie would have amounted to
much, because the plot is relatively thin; wide swaths could have been cut
from the film and no one would have noticed. Take the library Andy built.
It
did not advance the basic plot at all, as with other scenes. You could
argue that it was precisely
these small events that made the film good, and I would agree. But that's
my
point:there wasn't really anything tying the movie together other than our
sympathy for the characters. While well developed characters are a central
part of any good movie, there should still be something driving the action
other than our sympathy for them; i.e. some sort of chain of events that
drives the action independently of the characters. To everyone who thinks
this is the best movie ever, I invite you to watch a couple films from the
top 5 of the AFI list. You can argue about the AFI's placement all day,
but
all of the top 5 are better rounded films than Shawshank. If you still
feel
Shawshank is better than the rest, more power to you.

******
14 June 1999
10

(Note: my English is not really superb!!!)
This movie is absolutely one of the most underestimated movies ever. This
great all-round performance has never gotten the recommendation it
deserves.
I was very happy to discover that I'm not the only one who's deeply
touched
by this movie. A deserved first place I think. And for everyone who hasn't
seen it yet, and can appreciate real quality: you really have to see this
one!!!

******
9 June 1999
10
This is a rare kind of movie. A movie about the development of a
friendship
under the hardest conditions.Being a huge fan of Stephen King's original novella, and considering past
attempts to make his stories into movies, I was very sceptical when
entering
the theatre. But I have never seen an adaptation of his work which moved
me
in the way this one did. Director Darabont even get away with turning Red
into an African American. Actually I think the movie is superior to the
written version.The main reason for this movie's strength is the two leading characters,
brilliantly brought to life by Tim Robbins, (should have been Academy
Award
winner) Morgan Freeman. Together with the director they make this into a
universal story and the American movie of the decade.The only drawback is the ending. In my opinion it should have ended with
Red
getting on the bus. In that way each of us could create the ending we
preferred. Most of us would have chosen the same one as the director but
as
it is presented I think it is a bit over the top. And that is sad for a
movie of this kind.Still, if I had to go to a deserted island bringing only one American
movie
from the nineties this would be it.


******
7 June 1999
10

The difference between this story about prison in the middle of the 20th
Century and any other movie is just about everything.  From the great
acting
of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman to the outstanding directing, this movie
just makes the viewer feel as if they spent their time doing something
worthwhile.  The ending of the movie makes the movie, but without all of
the
other parts leading up to the finale, there would be nothing as well.
Almost every scene in this has a point and a reason.  Watching others view
this movie for the first time, I've noticed that the interest is usual
only
at an average level during the first third of the film, but as the viewer
is
drawn in, they soon can't take their eyes off of it.  Only the best of
movies will have all of these qualities, and with it being a happy,
successful story in the end, few can deny its greatness.

******
31 May 1999
10

What a great movie. It's been my fave for years but I never knew just how
many other people liked it until I saw that it was ranked #1 on the top
250
list here at IMDB. It may not be the greatest movie ever made but everyone
who has seen it liked it. I can't imagine anyone hating this movie. The
best
part of the whole movie is when Red walks down the beach in Mexico and
meets
his friend on the boat. You know everything's going to be okay after that.


******
24 May 1999
10

This is one of the best films I have ever seen in my seventeen years.  The
movie is highly underrated by film critics, but if you look at imdb's top
250 films you will see it is rated #1.  Tim Robbins gives his best
performance, he plays a prisoner who is serving time for a crime he didn't
commit.  I guarantee you, you will enjoy this movie.  Check out my other
reviews!  

******
26 February 1999
10

I've been watching 15 to 30 films a month for the past 5 to 10 years, and I
evaluate a film by its ability to captivate my senses, regardless of how
many times I've seen it. I don't have to tell you, then, how much I've
adored this film. I suppose, for the sake of public appeal, Forrest Gump
deserved the Oscar win, but Shawshank deserved the nomination, and Tim
Robbins should've at least been nominated for best actor. What can I say?
See the film- it's pure artistic perfection.

******
20 February 1999
8

This is a very good film, working on a number of levels. The main theme of
the film is hope in adversity. I particularly like the way that Andy becomes
a kind of Christ-type. It still does not quite make my own Top
Ten! 

******
12 February 1999
10

This is a story about patience, maturity, character, salvation, and
ultimately about finding humanity in a place where there is none. Although
its subject matter may be depressing, the story actually contains a lot of
warmth, humor and friendship - a buddy story cloaked in a philosophical
discourse on the importance of retaining a sense of personal worth and hope
no matter what the circumstances.This adaptation of a 1982 Stephen King novella did lukewarm box office,
in part because of an advertising campaign that offered no clue as to what
the movie was about, and in part because it never played on more than 970
screens. Still it garnered seven Oscar nominations, including a Best Picture
nod, and finished up at a respectable $30 million.Set in mid-1940s Maine, this is the story of Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins),
who is tried and falsely convicted for the murder of his wife and her lover.
He is sentenced to life at Shawshank prison, where he meets a canny lifer
named Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), and a caravan of colorful
characters.The story begins with Red and his fellow inmates watching the latest
busload of prisoners unload, and they make bets on who will cry during their
first night in prison, and who will not. Red narrates the story from within the walls
of the prison.Whereas some Stephen King adapters have seemed intent on transcending or
trashing their source material, writer-director Frank Darabont succeeds
through fidelity to the text; the few deviations make this subdued male love
story even more audience-friendly. The film sports elegant cinematography by
Roger Deakins, a poignant score by Thomas Newman, solid portrayals and
characterizations by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, and an excellent
supporting cast including James Whitmore (as old-timer Brooks Hatlen) and
William Sadler as a con who starts out scary and ends up lovable.


******
10 February 1999
10

I absolutely LOVE this movie, and I've seen it many times over, but I've
never thought of it in biblical terms before.  I'm also not very religious
so the Christ parallel did not occur to me.  Now that you mention it, it's
almost too obvious. 

******
9 February 1999
10

Fantastic film that dramatically and powerfully displays the strength of
the human will. With unforgettable performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman, The Shawshank Redemption is a masterpiece. Subtle use of color
(moreso lack thereof) helps to generate moods and feelings that resonate
with the gripping plot and near-perfect dialog. A must
see.

******
1 February 1999
10

For a simple story which can be described in two or three sentences, the
emotional impact this film has is surprising. 'The Shawshank Redemption'
follows the maturation of a friendship over a thirty-year period, during
which two men grow close in a cruel and brutal prison in New England. Based
on a story by Stephen King, that author whose work has inspired such cheesy
screen fare such as 'Thinner' and 'Needful Things', the film comes as a
surprise. I had always though Forrest Gump was a great movie until I saw
Shawshank. One of the strongest thoughts I had after seeing this film was
that we, as a society, are wrong to sentence a man to endless years in
prison. A controversial view, but it makes sense when compared to the world
in the film. Hope, friendship, and an unwillingness to be broken are the
main messages in a story that is beautifully filmed and flawlessly acted.
Tim Robbins did deserve an Academy Award much more than Tom Hanks did, and I
was disappointed to see that even Morgan Freeman's excellent turn as 'Red'
slipped by Academy voters. Ah well, it's the same awards panel that gave
the Best Picture nod to 'Titanic'. The world does not always make sense,
'Shawshank' teaches us. Bad things happen to good people, and it's who you
are after the storm has passed that show us who, and what, we are.


******
23 January 1999
10

And what a way to say it! Until this one, I have never before rated a movie
10. It is by all accounts the best movie I have ever seen.
Frankly I felt a little bit bored by the story but suddenly it was as if the
story had taken a turn and everything fell into place. The first two thirds
of the movie started making perfect sense. Then it takes another turn,
perfectly underlined by Morgan Freeman's marvellously confused expression
being questioned by the warden. From this part on the movie is a bit more
ordinary but still a beautiful drama.The Marriage of Figaro has gotten new meaning. 

******
22 January 1999
10

Well, everyone seems to mention Forrest Gump in their bit about
Shawshank.So, maybe I will, too.As a Terminator 2 fan, I feel naturally fascinated by The Shawshank
Redemption. This film pushes all the buttons of a person with a caring
heart.With a brilliant cast, story line, director and set, this is a master piece
rivaled only by T2, Titanic, The Rock, and perhaps Dances with
Wolves.A 8.5/10 from MaRX. 

******
14 January 1999
10

I'm a fan of King's work. And I confess that, when I first saw the Rita
Hayworth And The Shawshank Redemption, I didn't like it very much. After I
heard the coming adaptation in 1994, I thought to myself "It's gonna be a
cliche prison movie". But when I first watched it on the big screen, I was
totally shocked. I think they made a great favor to Forrest Gump and Tom
Hanks that year. The 6 academy awards was meant to be for this film. I still
get the same excitement while watching this one over and over again. Now I'm
waiting for the DVD version for the  film. And I also like to see a special
edition for this one....

******
6 January 1999
10

What a great movie, written by: Stephen King.
Original title: Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption.
This movie has got 7 oscar nominations, but didn't get
1.
I don't know why, because this was one of the best movies in
1994.It's about a man Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is guilty on a double
murder of his wife and her boyfriend.In this whole movie you find out about his life and if he's guilty or
not.
Great acting by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins.
(10/10)

******
11 December 1998
10

Simply the best film I've ever seen.  Inspiring, uplifting,
well
acted, and beautifully filmed.  It is a crime that Forrest Gump was even
considered for best picture the same year this film was
out.

******
8 December 1998
10

This movie is a great example of how a person can be wrongly convicted in
today's legal justice system.  The movie also shows how someone's patience
and determination can lead to their success in the future.  The movie is a
great drama and one of the best movies I have ever seen!

******
27 November 1998
10

I really enjoyed this movie. There was obviously a lot of thought put into
the script and it delivers brilliantly. The directing is also wonderful, and
the actors fit the part perfectly.
This is a gruesome account of prison life in the 1950's-60's that is very
violent, although this was necessary in the film.
A very good movie, and a must-see!

******
27 November 1998
10

I want to say that this film is one of the best ever:THE
REASON
IS SIMPLE...........................ACTING IS AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are simply the BEST!!!!!!AS
FOR
FORREST GUMP.......................DO YOU REALLY BELIEVE THAT
IT
WAS BETTER THAN THE "SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION"??????NO WAYYYYYYYYYY!
FORREST GUMP IS A SIMPLE FRAUD!!!!!!!!TOM HANKS IS AWFUL,AND
SO
IS THE ENTIRE FILM...................

******
24 November 1998
10

I was so surprised and glad to see this movie as high as it is on this
site's list.  It is one of my favorite movies and so many people missed out
on it because of GUMP, which I personally feel is an inferior
movie.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give incredibly moving and restrained
performances that moved me to tears more than once. The direction and timing
were flawless, and the story itself inspirational. It is so nice to see a
Stephen King movie done right for once.This is simply a wonderful movie, worth watching over and over again.


******
18 November 1998
10

An all-time favorite.  I am a college professor, and have used this film in
sociology, science of success, and various legal classes that I teach.  The
reactions of students are almost always extremely poignant.  An
inspirational prison movie.  Unbelieveable.

******
17 November 1998
10

This is one of the best films of all time, and I'm not kidding you. Yes,
you're welcome to your Godfathers' and Citizen Kanes' but this is a film
everybody can experience, preferably through the medium of cinema, for what
it is, a truly great story, backed up by top notch performances by Robbins
and Freeman.Everyone I have ever spoken to has enjoyed this film and they were as
surprised as me to find out that although nominated, the film did not
receive one single Oscar. Why is it so, that a good film like Forrest Gump
can win so many but a truly great film like Shawshank wins nothing?Words cannot describe how great this film is, one to see again and again,
and not just for the triumphant twist at its conclusion! Watch it!!


******
16 November 1998
10

This movie is absolutely superb. You watch it and all the simple,
unremarkable details just cumulate and you realise that this movie, by being
unflashy and ordinary is telling a powerful story about hope and redemption.
Andy seems to be the main character but it is Red who finds himself, who is
redeemed.The Shawshank Redemption was overlooked because it looked unremarkable. But
this movie has to be seen. My friends are action movie fanatics but they
were all stunned by this movie. Stephen King should be thanked for writing
the novella and the director should be praised for bringing it to the screen
in such fine form. Forget Forrest Gump, this was the Best Picture of
1994.

******
15 November 1998
10

The movie had plot up the wazoo! The acting was superb. Robbins and Freeman
were at their highest in this movie.  There were so many emotions flying
through it and there was so much about the human mind.  It will leave you in
awe.

******
3 November 1998
10

This movie I can see again and again and again...

******
2 November 1998
7

This is indeed one of the best prison dramas I've ever
seen.
I've always been a fan of Tim Robbins and he doesn't let me down here. But I
can't believe this is so high in the overall list (I would place it in the
150-200 range myself). Even if we just stick with Tim Robbins, 'The Player',
'Short Cuts' and 'Jacob's Ladder' are all far better films. It was the
ending of the film that really disappointed me, but since I'm not allowed to
talk about endings in these reviews I can't explain why! Suffice it to say
that I can imagine at least two fairly obvious endings that would have been
better. Maybe it's the 'American Factor', what with me being English, but
the overrating of this film completely baffles me.


******
15 August 2015
6
SR is a good film. In my view it is not a great film! Firstly - it is lazy film-making to have a character (Red, in this
case, played by Morgan Freeman) as a narrator to tell us what is
happening. The film itself should convey the narrative. If someone has
to read the narrative I might as well just buy the book!Secondly - the story is simply not believable! I can't believe that a
prisoner gets to do all the tax returns for the guards and governor. I
can't believe that a prisoner entering the prison just happens to have
a heard another prisoner in another prison boast about committing the
murder for which our hero is serving time. Thirdly - the story all ends up 'happy ever after' which is seldom the
case but which, I suppose, satisfies those of a simplistic/idealistic
nature. I prefer more grit and realism.Fourthly - the 'goodies' (Dufresne, Red, Brooks) and the 'baddies'
(Bogs, Hadley, Norton) are drawn so simplistically they might as well
have been wearing white and black hats! There is no depth of character
here.Fifthly - and most damning - this film made me feel very little! I
didn't really care about the characters (except - maybe - Red). The
plot with Dufresne taking on his alter-ego on escape was clever and the
suicide of Brooks was a bit moving but this was not enough for me. I go
to the cinema to be moved by the plot or the characters; to be made to
think; or simply to laugh! This was not a laughing film but neither did
it reach me on any other level.It was also too long!

******
6 August 2015
10
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
29 July 2015
8
Whilst the IMDb users may disagree, the Shawshank Redemption isn't my
number 1, maybe not even my top 100. But with that said, I have seen
this movie a few hundred times and it gets wary. There is no doubt it
is good, I may even say it's close to great and it has a pretty good
watchability rating, but it's forced metaphors get on my nerves now
and, in reality, is just another prison movie which is above average. Boring if you have seen it a few times, but for a first impression it
is good. Once you start to analyze its elements you can begin to see
the film for what it is. A perfect film it is not, but the acting is
near perfect and the realism is somewhat accurate. Not my favorite
film, not my favorite prison film, but give it a whirl and see how you
decide.

******
26 July 2015
10
This movie was amazing story, it takes us look at the other side of
prisoners in prisons and how they feel when they return to society.
Many people are ignore how they feel when back to society. There are so
many thing we can learn in this movie. For the fans of Morgan Freeman,
he did a ggrat job in this movie and other actor is very good also.
Moreover,the film tells us that the truth will always win, although it
requires a long time. Many things are not unexpected from this film. So
for those who are bored with films that have a simple story, this might
be a recommendation for you. You must focus to the movie when you
watching it to get the meaning of the story. The story is very slick
and classy.

******
25 July 2015
10
I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank
Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and
dreams. And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it
gives you hope. Even though the circumstances between the characters
and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed
from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message. Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to
love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him. Why
this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that
sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250
list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway
you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie. You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will
understand why this is my all time favorite movie. it! Its so dramatic
and very exciting!

******
10 July 2015
10
this movie though not a blockbuster during its initial release has
become a favorite for every movie-buffs because of the following
reasons 1.morgan freeman in his most carrier defining role. 2.tim
robins as 'mr.dufresne' portrays a man who did nothing as harmful as a
crime. 3.background score makes you feel for the protagonist. 4.that
beautiful picture of Rita Hayworth. 5.the brilliant example of what
time and pressure can do. 6.In prison also there is corruption 7.The
friendship between the two main characters is beautiful 8.Redemption
may not the only thing to survive. 9.continuous effect will lead to the
thing we want. 10.After all it is a crowd favorite

******
3 July 2015
9
It's a rhythm that is well thought out. When we look at the same
actors, it is easy to forget the time span of the film for more than 20
years. Such a great measure in reality, time will be too slow, will
only be amplified in prison. It's not like the movie is not interested
in these moments. Still know, this is just a plan in the sweet time to
get there. In return, the monotonous life of prison makes it more
exciting. It seems that this is a moment that will never be forgotten.
It's a rhythm that is well thought out. When we look at the same
actors, it is easy to forget the time span of the film for more than 20
years. Such a great measure in reality, time will be too slow, will
only be amplified in prison. It's not like the movie is not interested
in these moments. Still know, this is just a plan in the sweet time to
get there. In return, the monotonous life of prison makes it more
exciting. It seems that this is a moment that will never be forgotten.

******
3 July 2015
10
This is one of the Best movie i have seen in my life till date! It
actually shows you how to live a goddamn life. There are many messages
lying in this film and the best 2 are known to you all. It actually
showed me that life is not what we think it is! Its about going down
Hundred times and getting back Thousand times! Life is always should be
considered as Fighting with the Storm(sometimes it may be Tornado!).
But once the storm is over, you won't remember how you made it through,
or how you managed to survive. You won't even be sure, whether the
storm is really over or not. But one thing is certain. When you come
out of the storm, you won't be the same person who walked in! That's
what this storm's all about! It makes you totally a different person!
So always Keep your Hope constant and Get Busy Living the Goddamn Life
on your own! :)

******
1 July 2015
9
This movie is just perfect, go watch it NOW if you haven't yet!A good ode to friendship, hope, wit, wiles and wisdom, brimming with
crackling characters and topped with the most best of twists since "The
Crying Game."One of the best movies of all time. Don't deprive yourself of the
pleasure of watching such a stellar movie. Go now and watch this movie
if you have never seen it. Perfect casting, amazing story, emotional
performances. Just perfect.An unwaveringly inspirational story of perseverance in the face of
hardship, this movie will teach you how to hope again. Not only does
the story never fail to move me, but the acting performances were
terrific as well, as Tim Robbins shows us a man who has everything,
only to lose it, and Morgan Freeman turns from a callous murderer to a
deeper thinking more mature and repentant man.

******
1 July 2015
10
what an awesome movie it is? Worth watching it. All time favorites...
Whenever I talk about this movie with my friends, I do not even refer
to it by title, but rather as "The Movie". When I say "The Movie", my
friends know exactly what I'm talking about. In fact the main reason
that me and my friends don't refer to it by title. Because this movie
is so great, that we do not feel worthy enough to say it's name in
vain! I still remember the first time I saw The Shawshank Redemption. I
was so impressed with how every single subplot was given a great deal
of respect and attention from the director. The acting was world-class.
I have never seen Tim Robbins act as well since, Morgan Freeman maybe
(e.g. Seven). The twists were unexpected, an although this film had a
familiar feel, it wasn't even slightly pretentious or clichéd, it was
original. The cinematography was grand and expressive. It gave a real
impression of the sheer magnitude of this daunting prison.

******
29 June 2015
9
Loved the movie, watched it several times now and always see something
new. Great human conflicts. Clever plot. Acting was superior. Catch
myself thinking what it must be like to be in a prison every time I
watch it. Could not do it. The movie draws you in and you can't help
feeling like you a part of it. The interaction of the characters had so
many levels of emotions tied to them. Can't imagine what people must
feel when they are innocent and end up in prison Horrifying thought on
so many levels. The ending was great, but I wanted to see more. wanted
to know what their future was like. wanted to see it. I love the fact
that the movie actually brought you to the reunion of the two main
characters and how it played out.

******
27 June 2015
10
i was visiting my college friend in his hometown,, during our college
time we use to bunk classes to watch movies,, first ever Hollywood
movie that mesmerized our mind was "Fight Club", we had never
experience anything like that movie before. so we were talking over
coffee discussing movies one evening, so he asked me do you know number
one movie on IMDB250 chart list & i replied Godfather of course, he
replied no dude you are wrong ,, something new replaced it ,, it called
Shawsank Redemption ,, i was like,, what???? never heard of it? he told
me he bought a DVD of the movie & ask me to watch it.. first of all i
should tell everyone that i am big Morgan freeman fan..but i have never
seen Tim Robbins in any role before, As the movie flow with the essence
of acting & direction ,, i was falling in love with every scene. after
the completion of the movie i can surely say this was the best motion
picture ever. i would suggest watch it once & you will fall in love
with it to watch to again

******
22 June 2015
10
When this movie was released it was a "flop" in the cinemas. That
doesn't stop it from being the best movie of all time. In the start it is just getting into the story. It is dramatic. Then
the story gets into the prison, where Andy finds it hard to fit in. He
then befriends Red, Morgan Freeman. As they bond Andy imports various
tools to help him to, spoilers, escape from prison. If we go back a bit we get to the saddest bit in the movie. When,
spoilers, Brooks dies. He had a bird called Jake at the prison that he
let free. When he got his parole, he went to work for a grocery store.
The problem was, he had been in prison for too long. He didn't remember
how to live in a world outside the prison. One day, he couldn't take it
anymore. he carved into the wall "Brooks was here" and hung himself at
the spot.After Andy escaped from the prison, he let Red know where he was
headed. When Red got his parole, he went to follow where Andy was. It
was a long journey, but he made it. It ended at a scene where Andy was
working on a boat and Red walking up to him.To sum up, this deserves to be the most liked movie all time. It
wouldn't be up there in the best movie of all time with movies such as
The Godfather, Citizen Kane and Apocalypse Now. Apart from that, it is
my favourite movie of all time, over all of those movies.

******
21 June 2015
10
An amazing piece of film. Penned by Stephen King and directed by Frank
Darabont, this one sneaks up on you, takes you to the lowest place of
the human spirit then takes you in the exact opposite direction.
Totally snubbed by the Oscars, but one of the greatest films of all
time. Told in the narrative style, conducted by Morgan Freeman, we get
a picture of the prison system of the 1940s-1960s and some of the
wildly unique characters who inhabit the walls of Shawshank Prison.
Shawshank, is a frequent and oft referenced institution of many of
Stephen King's stories (both written and on screen) and every time i
hear the name in any of his works it makes me think of this story.

******
21 June 2015
10
Astonishing. Simply perfect. This is by far my favorite movie and I'm
sure that every single guy/girl out there who ever watched it or will
ever watch it will "fall for it" just the way I did. I never really
liked long movies, but this one made me resist 'till the end and
believe me, people, it was not just me. All of my friends and all the
people I know that saw this told me the exact same thing. So just stop
searching. Andy's struggle is a lesson. A very important lesson to
anyone. Anyone can find something to learn in it. So just watch it,
please, and rate 10 stars and then share your opinions so that more and
more people would watch it and share and so on.

******
6 February 2015
8
I watched this film several times and I am fascinated with it today as
I was then when I watched it. Everything is top of the line. Acting,
plot, camera, everything.Plot involving jail in 1940s is really an interesting plot and
characters are really colorful. I think that was one of the films when
Morgan Freeman came to fame. Other actors are fantastic too. This story
is timeless and it will probably be watched many times over and over
again by many people in the future.However, I am not sure that it deserves to be number one on IMDb top
250 films of all times. I would put Schindler*s list there rather then
this film. But that is just me.

******
11 December 2014
10
Posting your review is a two-step process. First, complete the form
below and click Preview Then, we will show you how your review will
appear online. When you're ready to submit it, click the Submit button
on the bottom of the following page.By submitting this review you are
agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright Statement. Your
submission must be your own original work. Your review will normally be
posted on the site within 2-3 business days. Reviews that do not meet
the guidelines will not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML
or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be
inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph. By submitting
this review you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright
Statement. Your submission must be your own original work. Your review
will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days. Reviews
that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted. Please write in
English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph
breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph. By
submitting this review you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our
Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your own original work.
Your review will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business
days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted.
Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported
though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line
between paragraph.

******
11 December 2014
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont. ~ Mark Deming, Rovi

******
10 December 2014
10
This is undoubtedly the best movie I have ever seen. The acting of the
main protagonists - Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman - are brilliant. The
movie is about hope and redemption. It is also about how uncertain life
is - how circumstances can lead a person to disastrous consequences
through no fault of his own.Tim Robbin's portrayal of Andy Dufresne - a banker who is sent to jail
for murdering his wife - was as natural as ever. Morgan Freeman as a
seasoned convict Red who goes through a transformation during his time
with Andy makes you feel for the man. Bob Gunton will make you hate the
evil hypocritical warden with all your heart. Overall, everyone has
done a beautiful job with their roles.This film touched a special chord in my heart. I never tire of watching
it. If you love the drama genre, this movie is for you.

******
10 December 2014
10
It is so funny how the justice system is back then and even now. They
try to impose the max sentenced allowed without the fact or on some
false or beefed up charges. But the final say is never theirs because
you can never keep a bird that is meant to fly free caged for very
long. I like that fact that Andy never let the best get the best of
him. H.O.P.E. (H)aving (O)nly (P)ositive (E)xpectation.. never losing
site that anything and everything is possible even in the hands of the
law. Hoep changes everything. In the Andy got the last laugh, all the
way to the bank then to an island looking at the beautiful blue ocean
and repairing his boat. Like I said, you can never keep a bird caged
for very long.

******
7 December 2014
10
I remember watching this for the first time in my Highschool Film as
Literature class in the year 2010. At that moment, it became one of my
all-time favorite movies, nearing the top. I had no clue who Frank
Darabont was, but it's amazing how much you can respect someone without
even meeting the individual. The direction, the acting, the set,
EVERYTHING was impeccable! The symbolism in just the smallest things
pushed the story even further. I'd encourage everyone to read
biographies about this film to know and understand the true intensity
of Mr. Darabont's "Shawshank Redemption". It's not a surprise to me
that many have given this a 10 out of 10 rating as I have. If you
haven't seen it, go see it. Then read the biographies.

******
5 December 2014
10
ppAttempts to pad the comment with junk words can result in your
account being blocked from future submissions. Attempts to pad the
comment with junk words can result in your account being blocked from
future submissions. Attempts to pad the comment with junk words can
result in your account being blocked from future submissions. Attempts
to pad the comment with junk words can result in your account being
blocked from future submissions. Attempts to pad the comment with junk
words can result in your account being blocked from future submissions.
Attempts to pad the comment with junk words can result in your account
being blocked from future submissions. Attempts to pad the comment with
junk words can result in your account being blocked from future
submissions. Attempts to pad the comment with junk words can result in
your account being blocked from future submissions. Attempts to pad the
comment with junk words can result in your account being blocked from
future submissions. Attempts to pad the comment with junk words can
result in your account being blocked from future submissions. Attempts
to pad the comment with junk words can result in your account being
blocked from future submissions. Attempts to pad the comment with junk
words can result in your account being blocked from future submissions.
Attempts to pad the comment with junk words can result in your account
being blocked from future submissions. Attempts to pad the comment with
junk words can result in your account being blocked from future
submissions.

******
5 December 2014
10
This movie to me is one of my favorites. This is the only movie i would
have to say is a better movie then the book even though it a short
story. (i don't consider this a spoiler to the movie but a little
spoiler to the book so....) in the book there were multiple warden
going over the years Andy spent in Shawshank but in the movie i have to
say did a better job of directing the hate words a single warden witch
manipulated Mr.Dufresne to the end of his sanity.There were even more parts to affect the story in the oppose direction
as well. In other word, ways that parts of the book are even better
than the movie, not really the manipulation of the main story line but
side story that takes place that would explain more in the main story
to emotion or long term affects. Side stories that take place in
Shawshank. For example in the book here is a story about a guy that was
a stamp collector and how something happened to the guy (would say but
don't want to spoiled) and his stamp collection is hidden n Shawshank
somewhere and is worth a lot of money but since no one can find his
hiding place that story kind of turned into a myth or legend.Even in the book red wasn't Morgan at all. Morgan freeman brought red
to life; in more ways than one.

******
4 December 2014
10
in my opinion this movie will never be old fashion always has something
new for people.great performances of actors and wonderful story make this movie one of
my best.I am not able to forget i can't compare this movie with another movies
never and never Ne of the finest films made in recent years. It's a
poignant story about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like
this more than a movie. It tells a lesson about life. Those are the
films people talk about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's also a
story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, from rule, from bigotry and
hate. Freeman and Robbins are majestic in their performances. Each
learns from the other. Their relationship is strong and you feel that
from the first moment they make contact with one another. There is also
a wonderful performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.

******
4 August 2014
10
Well, for at the start of the movie we have a story that catch our
attention. Since the first minutes are arising in our heads series of
questions that have no answers until it reaches the unexpected ending
and even then you're left with some doubt and you must let your
imagination fly. Was or was not he? Highly recommended at any time, is not heavy in any occasion and for
all the publics, it could seem too large for some people but as i said
is not heavy at all anytime. I give a 10/10 because of the amazing interpretation and the history.Ernest

******
24 July 2014
10
An amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the 90s and
definitely one of the top "prison" movies of all-time. Pretty much
everything about this movie works and works extremely well! The film
touches upon many subjects, including the ideas of hope, redemption,
love, loneliness, justice, life/death, friendship, endurance, fear,
patience, inspiration and so much more. Watching this movie always makes me feel a million times better, and if
that's not the greatest reason to watch a film, I don't know what is.
Give it up to both Freeman and Robbins for completely engulfing their
characters with heart, soul and the spirit of humanity. I appreciated
the message in this film, I absolutely loved the way it ended, I
surrendered to its pace, I enjoyed all of its characters, I thought it
was wonderfully photographed, I loved the score and I could seriously
watch this movie 10 times a year and not bat an eyelash the whole way
through. Love it, watch it, get your own motivation from it and surrender to its
spirit which gives anyone in the world hope to do whatever they dream
to do in life...

******
23 July 2014
10
And one of the saddest in the world! Andy really had a hard time of it.
This is one of those films where I always wonder if I got stuck in jail
what would my life be like? What exactly would I do? How would I live
and how exactly would I survive. The only current TV show that brings
back those emotions is Orange is the New Black. Feeling isolated and
stuck.The breath of this film can be summed up in a few ways but most of the
human spirit and the will to survive against all odds. Hope is the
answer and name of the game in this film. Trying to control your
surroundings even though control is the least you have.

******
23 July 2014
10
This is the movie you wanna watch if you're sad, happy, angry, or
confused. This movie will suck you into it's world, and leave you
mindblowed with various feelings. This movie is among the finest films
ever made.Hopefully you too will get this sensation of watching this masterpiece.
Freeman shows what great talent he has, though it is truly Robbins who
gives the movie its soul and heart. I remember tghinking of this movie
several days after watching it. it came up when i had to make choices.
The dilemmas of the movie can easily be related to your own lives.
Masterpiece. Excellence. Love. Peace.

******
22 July 2014
10
Easily one of the best titles out there. It is a great mixture of
comedy, drama, suspense, mystery, and basically any genre that you can
mold into this! If you haven't seen it or wish to see it, then I would
not wait any longer. This is a must-see of all movies. Morgan Freeman
imposes a classic character that is recognizable in his other roles,
but clearly deserves the most praise due to the immense hype over this
film. Lost best picture only because of the other great movies in its
year, but would have been a killer any other time. Saw a behind the
scenes about it and director did not even think it would be this well
received.

******
22 July 2014
10
One of the last places you would expect to see a movie about hope and
the deep bonds of friendship takes place in a prison. This drama is a
worthy top 100 film, and I believe that is where it will stay for many
years to come. There is a fair amount of explicit language throughout
the movie, so for those that cannot tolerate language, this may ruin
the redeeming qualities of the movie for you.One quality I look for in a good movie is to get lost in the film, to
the point that I begin to feel the emotions of characters. Here you
will find a bit of everything, hopelessness, hope, love, and anger. Put
it this way, if I had only three movies to pick to watch the rest of my
life, this would be one. If there was a reading rainbow list for
movies, then I would highly suggest you pick up a copy and watch this
movie. Hope you enjoy

******
21 July 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 USA drama film, written and directed
by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman (both are
great actors for me). It is ranked #1 in IMDb's "Top 250" list and is considered one of the
best movies of all time.For me It's a great movie, I really don't understand how this movie
couldn't have win an Oscar, although we all know that it is more fake.
Recommended for everyone to see it, has a little of everything, you can
also realize sometimes justice is not done correctly.Many people'll claim that The Shawshank Redemption is the best film
ever made, and it is difficult to argue against it, however, everyone
should watch this film at least once or two in their lives.

******
20 July 2014
10
for those who like to watch prison life style and how every friend
counts in that situation. A wholesome package of Entertainment. yes the
time line of this movies seems to move forward slowly many times but
every time a heart touching conversation makes it worthy again. At
least one time must see the movie of course if you have time and you
like this kind of movies . this movie is about how a person can get in
prison because of a silly decision and how rough prison life can be.
obviously in that case making friend is not an easy task , but making
enemy is a pretty easy one but the result of that is not a pretty
one.then again this movie is about how a man lives in this kind of a
situation and how he makes friends , how he takes care of his conscious
and above all how he survives this .....

******
20 July 2014
10
This Movie is one of the best Movies i watched.Tim Robins leads a Great
Character as Andy Dufrense.He is Amazing Through out all the
Movie.Although his friend Ellis Boyd(Morgan Freeman) have best lead
character.He helps him to escape from the Prison. The movie is about
how a Innocent Man got to Prison.When He realize that he is innocent he
planing to escape from that prison.There is no action, no special
effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to each other. The story
begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense, victimized by
circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for the murder of
his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy finds himself
serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope of parole. He
exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his mind free from
the drab walls around him. His ability to do this results in the
gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of all from Ellis
Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds gainful use of his
entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of Shawshank by dealing in
contraband and commodities rare to the confines of prison. Andy's
demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to take a deeper look
at himself, and the world around him

******
15 July 2014
10
I love this movie. It truly is one of the greatest movies I've ever
seen. A timeless classic. It gets the full 10 from me. It sends us
numerous messages and has hidden meanings. Its so beautifully laid out
and filmed. It teaches us a lot about ex convicts also. Yes, they may
have did wrong to go to prison but some can't handle the outside world
the way they used to. It has all the emotions embedded in it. Funny,
sad, happy, deep all of those emotions and more. I would definitely
recommend this movie to everybody I meet. Its beautifully shot to
capture the essences of every character and their feelings and
emotions. The writing is spectacular. As a writer myself I like to look
at the writing and acting. I'm also an actress so those are the two
qualities I focus on. The story line is extremely important. If it
doesn't make sense then it ruins the movie completely. The acting in
this was sensational. The storyline was genius. Definitely worth the
full 10 out of 10 rating that I am giving it.

******
14 July 2014
10
Anyone that has ever experienced hardship through no fault of their own
will agree. First movie I have ever seen that draws tears with a happy
ending. VERY INSPIRING. I even named my son Andy because of this
movie....GET BUSY LIVING OR GET BUSY DYING...that's god damn right!
Anyone can get caught in their own personal Shawshank..This movie is a
great guide on how to deal with bad luck. Weather the storm and never
lose hope!! The ending with Red is great! It is impossible to say what
my favorite tune is...Without a doubt, this is my favorite movie of all
time. The brainless trolls can watch the big budget films all the
want.. If you are a Shawshank fan, another great movie to watch is The
Way, Way Back.

******
13 July 2014
10
Darabont constructs the film to observe the story, not to punch it up
or upstage it. Upstaging, in fact, is unknown in this film; the actors
are content to stay within their roles, the story moves in an orderly
way, and the film itself reflects the slow passage of the decades.
"When they put you in that cell," Red says, "when those bars slam home,
that's when you know it's for real. Old life blown away in the blink of
an eye. Nothing left but all the time in the world to think about it."
Watching the film again, I admired it even more than the first time I
saw it. Affection for good films often grows with familiarity, as it
does with music. Some have said life is a prison, we are Red, Andy is
our redeemer. All good art is about something deeper than it admits.

******
12 July 2014
10
Awesome movie. Loved loved loved it. I love everybody in the movie.
This is my all time favorite movie. I loved morgan freeman in it. It
really showed how life can be when u get locked up. Then it also shows
what happens to the men who have been locked up for a long time. They
don't know anything or anybody else besides the people and guards they
was locked up with. I liked how they put a different spin and view on
it.They let people see how things use to go on in the jail from a very
very very long time ago and how men didn't want to leave because jail
was all they knew. they didn't know much about the outside because it
had changed so much. If i was them i don't think i would want to leave
either. i loved the movie. i bought it and i watch it everyday.

******
10 July 2014
10
Pain, death, love and hate have never been personified the beautifully
on screen. Storyline, story-arc and character-arc are alive and well in
the creative light of this picture. A welcomed reminder of good
triumphing over not just evil, but the time good needs to find it's
foundation, grow, live and learn under evils presences to survive.
Quoting fellow IMDb member Tim Cox "One of the finest films made in
recent years. It's a poignant story about hope. Hope gets me. That's
what makes a film like this more than a movie. It tells a lesson about
life. Those are the films people talk about 50 or even 100 years from
you. It's also a story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, from rule,
from bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are majestic in their
performances. Each learns from the other. Their relationship is strong
and you feel that from the first moment they make contact with one
another. There is also a wonderful performance from legend James
Whitmore as Brooks."

******
9 July 2014
10
1994 was the year I was born. 20 years later I watched The Shawshank
Redemption and do not regret it. It is truly one of the best movies of
all time. I personally wouldn't put it as #1 in IMDb's top 250 list.
There are a ton of movies that are on the same level as The Shawshank
Redemption.The story follows Andy Dufresne, a banker who is imprisoned for
murdering his wife and her newfound lover. He claims he is innocent but
is sentenced anyway. At Shawshank Prison, he meets and becomes friends
with a man named Ellis Redding.This entire movie revolves around their relationship as friends and the
type of bond they formed while in prison. Both come from different
backgrounds: Andy as a successful banker who is wrongly convicted,
while Ellis is rightly convicted for murder. The movie has so much
depth to these two characters and really fleshes them both out.The Shawshank Redemption is also a very powerful, moving film. Watching
the movie, a person might think of Andy Dufresne as a modern "Jesus" as
to how he is able to convince all of the guards to allow several
benefits for each of his friends he meets in prison. He is able to do
all of this with no fear as he confronts the main guard Captain Hadley
(played in a stunning performance by Clancy Brown). Who knew Dr. Crabs
from Spongebob Squarepants could be this cruel.As time goes on at Shawshank, Andy gains the favor of eventually all
the guards and has them for protection against a group called The
Sisters led by their leader Bogs. The warden even allows Andy to switch
his job to help out other inmates in another part of the prison.I must mention the other perfect performances of the other inmates.
William Sadler plays Heywood, who is one of Ellis's group of inmates.
James Whitmore plays the elderly Brooks Hatlen, who is the oldest
member of Ellis's group. Honestly, these two actors have perfect
performances. Bob Gunton as Warden Samuel Norton is very sneaky and
ruthless. This movie will keep you guessing. Andy asks several times throughout
the movie for different items. He gets them, but the viewer is clueless
till the end of the movie. Andy does everything to make life at
Shawshank enjoyable by doing various deeds throughout the film (despite
the protests from the guards and the warden). He doesn't seem to care
what others think and seems to do things for others.In the second half of the movie, a new prisoner named Tommy Williams
becomes part of Ellis's group. With the arrival of Tommy, truths are
revealed.I won't spoil anything about the ending, but Andy has one final
surprise for everyone that will shock the viewers and everyone in
Shawshank Prison. Like I said earlier in the review, the whole movie
revolves around Andy and Ellis's friendship.Stephen King created a novella called Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption which Frank Darabont directed this in his first attempt as
director.Thank you Frank Darabont for creating this masterpiece. I also want to
thank Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman for portraying Andy Dufresne and
Ellis Redding respectively. Thank you Stephen King for writing the
book. Thank you to everyone else who was involved in this.

******
9 July 2014
10
This movie is a masterpiece. You may have seen some good movies but few
can compare to this one. This is the plot. In 1947 a wrongly accused
banker named Andy Dufrense (Tim Robbins) is sent to Shawshank Prison
for murdering his wife. He meets the corrupt Warden, Samuel Norton (Bob
Gunton) and the brutal corrections officer, Captain Byron Hadley
(Clancy Brown). He also meets the prison fixer Ellis "Red" Redding
(Morgan Freeman) who was also incarcerated for murder. Andy and Red
soon become good friends. Then one day while tarring the license plate
factory roof, Andy helps Captain Hadley organize his money in a way
that the government will be unable to take any taxes. Hadley tells the
other officers about it, including Warden Norton and Andy is soon doing
tax returns for all the guards in Shawshank. Life is becoming better
for Andy and his fellow inmates, when he pushes for more books for the
prison library. Meanwhile the old prison librarian Brooks Hatlen (James
Whitmore) is paroled from Shawshank. But Brooks can not adapt to life
on the outside and hangs himself. Then things get worse when Norton
tries to get more money from illegal activities using Andy. In 1963 a
new prisoner named Tommy Williams (Gil Bellows) arrives at Shawshank
and reveals that he knows the man that killed Andy's wife. Andy tries
to bring this up to Norton, but Norton puts Andy in solitary and has
Hadley kill Tommy to keep him quiet. Now Andy has just about had
enough. In 1947 Red got Andy a rock hammer, which he used to dig a
tunnel under his Rita Hayworth poster. When he was released from
solitary years later he uses it and escapes Shawshank. He turns Norton
and Hadley to the police, who arrest Hadley. Norton on the other hand
kills himself. In 1967 Red is paroled. He fears he will end up like
Brooks but he made a promise to Andy to help him set up a hotel in
Mexico so Red travels there where the two friends are united. This film
is great for a number of reasons. The friendship aspect between Andy
and Red which grows over a long period of time. It also addresses the
issue of rehabilitation and if prisoners who have been in there a large
portion of their lives can ever be rehabilitated or if they just become
adapted to prison life so much that they falter if sent to the outside
world. Overall it's just a great movie so I hugely recommend it.

******
8 July 2014
10
This movie is simply amazing, no doubt about it. I found it moving yet
funny in parts and it brought a tear to my eye. I would really
recommend this movie to anyone because each person I have recommended
it to has enjoyed it immensely and begs to watch it again. The ending
is one that is very shocking but it all makes sense, making you want to
watch it again to see how the ending could end in this way. Red was a
favourite character of mine, not just because he was played brilliantly
by Morgan Freeman, but also because this character brought humor to the
story with a slight sad twist towards the end. I loved this movie and
it will remain one of my favourites for a long time.

******
29 June 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is cinematic masterpiece directed by Frank
Darabont, is the movie of all movies. It has touches of many themes
from different types of genres such as drama, action, adventure, crime
and mystery. We see brilliant acting from both Tim Robbins as Andy
Dufresne and Morgan Freeman as Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding and we also see
the amazing and in my opinion a standout in this film James Whitmore as
Brooks Hatlen. Morgan Freeman narrates the movie perfectly with his soft southern tone
of voice soothing to the listeners. The scenes of the movie were shot
beautifully and the prison looked spectacular when panned out in a
shot. The film, being an adaption of a Stephen King short story, has
become one of his best stories along with another personal favorite of
mine The Green Mile (1999).This is a truly touching movie and receives my highest recommendation.
10 Stars!

******
26 June 2014
10
One of the best films I've ever seen. Great inspiration from everyone.
Shows life how it was . Even when life's that bad you don't have to
have it that way. Great star Morgan Freeman . Plays a character RED
which is heart warming. There are some sad times of the feature but it
wouldn't be a box smash without all kinds of genre included. Such a
great script and great camera work. I love the fact Andy is a nobody
then becomes the highlight of the prison for putting his foot down and
stepping up to the mark that everyone else was to scared to cross.
Great plot. I have seen this over double figures and still see new bits
as its a lengthy film

******
26 June 2014
10
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis Red Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the new
recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities of
prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King,

******
26 June 2014
10
One of, if not, the best movies I have ever come across. A very heart
warming and inspirational film that never ceases to put a smile on my
face no matter how many times I see it. Fill with memorable scenes and
dialog. Acting from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman alone make this
movie a great gem. The story is focused in a prison, but the focus of
the film is hope, patience, redemption ( as in the title), and
friendship. The movie contains a lot of symbolism, but it identifies
itself quite clearly. I urge you if you call yourself a film fanatic to
go watch this movie if you have never seen it. It has some the best
characters to it.

******
25 June 2014
10
What can I say about this movie that hasn't already been said? It's a
prison movie, yes, but it is so much more than that. First, let me
divvy out kudos to those who deserve it: Stephen King for writing this
magnum opus, Frank Darabont for his stellar directing, Tim Robbins for
the job he did and, of course, Morgan Freeman for knocking the ball out
of the park one this movie.This was a movie that could be loved and felt by men and women alike.
It was about losses and gains, hope and despondence, injustice and
rectitude, and definitely about friendship. Prison just happened to be
the backdrop of this film but it could have easily been anyplace. The
prison setting played a critical role and was interwoven into the
overall story but it wasn't the story. The story was so much more and
the movie did so well in pulling you in and making you care. You
couldn't help but loathe the warden and his right-hand-man. You
couldn't help but like Andy and Red. You couldn't help but want the
happy ending.Absolutely, Shawshank Redemption is a masterpiece. It didn't get the
awards it deserved, but like the Utah Jazz in the late 90's playing the
Bulls, Shawshank Redemption faced tough competition. Although, it is
getting its recognition here and it deserves the high praise.

******
23 June 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is without doubt one of the greatest movies of
all time (in my opinion). It filled with superb actors who maintain their high standards with
fantastic performances.The story line is utterly gripping and emotional.You'll laugh, get angry and probably cry.It's definitely one movie you'll never forget.I have watched this movie hundreds of times already and would be happy
to watch it a hundred more times.Please, if you haven't watch it, watch it.

******
23 June 2014
10
The best thing about this movie is that it does not contain a single
flaw. You can enjoy this movie throughout without getting bored for a
minute. Excellent dialog delivery. The most important thing i liked in
this movie is the casting.Each character in the movie makes a specific
impression on the viewer. You don't find any of the character as
redundant. The at the start somewhat resembles to the Clint Eastwood
Starred "Escape from Alcatraz" at start but then the movie takes you to
altogether different tour. Despite of absence of Eastwood's charisma
"The Shawshank redemption" is leaps and bounds ahead of "Escape from
Alcatraz". Morgan Freeman delivers again by his impeccable
narration.The dialogs just wake up your soul, and if not then the solid
background music does the trick.Over the years this movie has been my
standard to which i compare all other movies. Till now i have not found
any movie which matches such perfection. I just "HOPE" that some day i
will see a movie better than this one.A must watch movie for everyone.
Watch this movie and you will be a better person with changed attitude
towards life.

******
2 May 2014
10
I have seen this movie on a recommendation of one of my friend and it
was really worth seeing it. Before this movie I was stoke with Action
movie only but this movie turned me ON to see Dramatic movies.From the beginning movie was just full of flow of events, never even
got boring for a moment.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, just wow their acting is like natural
behavior, you can't just find a moment of distraction by the acting.I strongly recommend this movie to everyone to see.Based on this movie's story I can told you that you find hope for your
life to be continued.

******
27 March 2014
10
Lessons about:- Hope, Friendship, Life, , Dreams, Catharsis, Being
Obsessed, Love, Sorrow, Living Pains, Redemption, Freedom, Loneliness,
Vision, Tyranny, Greed, Slavery/ Servitude, Time, Reincarnation, Trust,
Betrayal, Silence, Giving Up, Living Up, Souvenir, Good Memories,
Accidents, Desire, Ability, Favor, Giving Back, Leaving back,
Achievement, Happiness, Sadness, Important little things, Perseverance,
Making Friends and Family, Leading your own road, Destiny, Positivity,
Little Laughs, Exceptions, Ethics, Norms, Wonders of Life, Shocks, Way
to success, Never Giving Up, Importance of Music, Care, Selfishness.
Affections, Expectations, Faith, Longing, Utilization of Resources,
Utilization of Time, Lull before Tornado, Intimacy, Relations, Touching
Heights & Lengths, Speaking up, Drudgery, Helping, Making differences,
Lifting Spirits, Giving others Hope, Being oppressed, Power of Words,
Power of Emotions, Checking, Goals(Zihuatenejo), Beauty of Life,
Continuity, Poetry, Literature, Sensing, Feeling, Sympathy, Empathy,
Worth of Money, Education, Schools and Students, Exams, Walking Alone,
Walking Along, Keeping Treasures, Dropping ideas, Self-Learning,
Self-esteem, Self-worth, Remembering, Fighting, Being Obtuse, Being
Aware, Leadership, Management, Keeping Books/Accounting and Ledgers,
Carving names, Legacy, Making Others Laugh, Making others happy, Taming
Animals and becoming close to them, Living Present, Paying Installments
and Getting them all back at Last, Surviving, Working Jobs, Costing,
Loyalty, Honesty, Premonition, Grooming, Crawling through bad
situation, Ways to break out of any problems, Blaming, Urge, Teaching,
Failing, Falling, Stretching Out for nothing but Freedom, Working 24/7,
Accepting Situation, Hunting for Worthwhile Treasures, Bringing Luck,
"No Good Thing Ever Die", Browsing, Keeping yourself together, Always
keeping yourself happy, Teasing each others, Losing Hope, Being an
example, Single Idea can turn your world upside down, Never worry,
Study, Cost of Procrastinating, leaving places and friends, Playing
Chess, being accustomed, Evil has no measure, Innocence, Never
revealing your thoughts/ Keeping Secrets, Bible, Ability to Foresee,
Giving Somebody their life back! "GET BUSY LIVING OR GET BUSY DYING"I saw this movie 7 years ago. I have been in deep love since then. But
throughout these years I met some friends and saw many many movies to
say the least but never ever any topped this one except "The Green
Mile". I gave "Shawshank" to many people I know and they still call me
just to say "Thank You". My friend's brother was once in hospital due
to terrible accident and he said he wanted to watch "The Shawshank
Redemption" before his death and I said how can a person love something
so much and he got well and watched it and said-"I am not going to die
this soon". I remember clearly my father once noticed me watching and I
said you should watch it (but he never watches any movie ever!!). He
refused so much but I insisted and he watched it and cried and
requested to buy him one another copy. He said "I'll give you money,
just I want all this director's films." I didn't know much about IMDb.
I thought just critic review it. As soon as I found out, I just wanted
to write to it.Also other Frank's movies like The Majestic (Best movie to watch with
Family) and The Mist (Heart-breaking end to watch ever.)Believe it this movie has a huge audience but they are not on IMDb.
I've many many movies but nothing..not even Star Wars, Schindler's
List, Forrest Gump, Casablanca, LOTR, Citizen Kane were and will be
able to dethrone this KING (Stephen..I mean Frank Darabont).This will always be #1 (Along with "The Green Mile") to me until I die.
Both are my #1. "I won't ever choose one over other.ever..ever..EVER."

******
18 February 2014
10
This is without a doubt one of the best movies I've ever seen. The
story is not that original, I've seen other movies with a similar
story. It's the way the movie is portrayed that makes this movie a
masterpiece. The cast is great and you really feel with Andy the whole
time.In the beginning Andy really had bad luck. To have your wife being
killed at the moment you found out she had an affair. It's was also
really unfortunate that he was near the crime scene with a gun. He
seemed guilty. His first years in the prison were also very hard for
Andy. At the moment he's doing better, I felt better. Then the story
continues to have an unexpected turn. The better Andy's life was going,
the better I was feeling. I was very glad to see there was justice in
the end.After you finish watching this movie, you feel really good. You feel
like you've went through an incredible journey and it all ended well. I
would recommend anyone I know to watch this movie as soon as possible.

******
19 November 2013
10
What a beautiful movie. I can watch this movie over and over. There is
not one thing wrong with this picture. The beautiful settings. The
talented cast. And I have to say Stephen King's greatest screenplay.
Tim Robbins plays the role of a life time. I love how he plays an
innocent criminal as he quietly escapes from a prison and returns to a
normal life. Morgan Freeman was powerful. His wonderful sounding voice
eases the audience through out the movie. A story of a friendship
between 2 convicted murderers over 30 years. I also love how elements
of horror were added to this movie to have a true feel to a Stephen
King movie. The part where the guy gets dragged back into the cell is
more haunting then any horror version of that same shot. This is a must
watch for everyone. No matter where you catch this movie. Beginning,
middle, or, end, it is worth watching. <3

******
20 July 2013
10
"Salvation lies within." -Warden Norton to Andy.I do not believe there is such a thing as a perfect movie. However,
this, it is a masterpiece.I was not even alive when this movie was released. I didn't know of it
until maybe four years ago. Since then, I have seen this movie multiple
times and honestly, I don't get tired of it. This is among the most
powerful stories ever told in a film. Ever. This movie is simply about
friendship. The friendship that takes form over roughly 20 years in a
Maine prison. One man, is in prison for murder. He is guilty. However,
his friend, is not guilty. An innocent man is placed in prison for two
life sentences for a crime he did not commit.Red (played masterfully by Morgan Freeman)is the guilty man, while Andy
Dufresne (played wonderfully by Tim Robbins) is the innocent man.The two of them show remarkable chemistry. They pull this off simply by
talking to each other throughout the movie. Usually when I see a
trailer for a movie today, there's explosions, or a natural disaster or
gang wars or something. This movie consists almost 99.9999999% simple
talking. And its done to perfection.With a well done script, terrific acting, and a very good ending, this
movie will forever be among the greatest ever.There are countless moments in this movie where you feel moved,
inspired, or you feel that you've learned something.I would recommend this film to anyone and everyone. A true masterpiece.

******
13 July 2013
10
This is one of the most amazing movies I've ever watched.It is based on a Steven King book, which makes the plot not
predictable. The story twists and turns, while during the movie it
seems that it is heading on a straight path forward.It tells the story of a banker which is accused of murdering his wife
and her lover. He is sentenced to life in prison, and placed in the
Shawshank prison, where he meets a group of inmates which become his
close friends during the decades he spends in prison. The movie tells
the story of his life and struggles in the prison environment. Any
addition to the abstract will spoil the experience, and perhaps be a
spoiler. The amazing casting of both Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins is amazing,
and couldn't be more accurate.I remember the first time I saw this movie (many more viewing after
that, the movie just don't get old) I was engulfed in it for the whole
duration.A must-see movie for anyone and everyone.

******
13 May 2013
10
I have just finished watching this movie. It is amazingI really did not think it was going to be this good. After hearing so
many great reviews from friends and relatives alike, I've finally
decided to watch it. I love it.The story is amazing the main character Andrew is a pure genius. He
manages to build a library in the prison, do taxes for prisoners,
guards, and warden alike, comes with perfect escape plan, and exploits
Warden's corruption, fakes his identity, and finally gives a gift to
his friend Red.I thought the performance were amazing too. Morgan Freeman is just
amazing at every act he does. Other actors were pretty damn good as
wellwell-deserving 10 out of 10

******
2 May 2013
10
This film, if it isn't one of the greatest of all time, at least I can
say it is one of the greatest I've ever seen. This is a must-recommend,
because to be honest, this is one of the many movies a movie lover must
see before they die. It is not just a great film, but a great
experience. And it is quite the experience! Morgan Freeman gives the
performance of his career in this film. I give props to the director
for making him narrate the film as well. He is just that great. Tim
Robbins give a very underrated performance in this film. Freeman stole
the show, but there was a certain subtlety of Robbins' that can't go
without being recognized. Either way, both these men give their full
effort into this film. There is a great atmosphere around this film as
well, it's a subtle tone, as this is a subtle, (But great) film, but it
changes when it needs to change, and it knows exactly when. As a
matter-of-fact, what makes this movie great is that it knows exactly
when it needs to do something powerful, thoughtful or sentimental, and
to be honest as a moviegoer, that is all I can ask for.

******
9 March 2013
10
I was born in the 90's so I did not grow up watching The Shawshank
Redemption. 2 years ago or so I decided to watch it. I was blown away.
It moved me in a way that few other movies have. It is a masterpiece.
Imagine if your life was taken away from you and all you had was your
thoughts about what you did, what you have done, or what you were going
to do. Wouldn't it drive you nuts, wouldn't it make you want to give up
hope in life. That is the key word in this film, "hope". When Andy
suffers during that whole time he is at Shawshank prison, you feel for
him yet you keep thinking that it will end bad for him and his friend
Red. As their relationship grows, Andy's plan to escape grows and soon
he fines hope that he will escape that God awful place, and then he
does and you cant help but to ball your eyes out after realizing what
this man had to do to reach his goal. And then the last scene with Andy
and Red symbolizes that this film is for the weak who strive to be
strong. The writing, acting, directing, cinematography all make this
one of the greatest films of all time.

******
22 January 2013
9
Not that I have been known to admire the critical pieces of work in
Hollywood/Bollywood (I would have aliens and zombies any day); I did
love the cinematic motif called the 'The Shawshank Redemption'. Much
has been already written about the movie and most of it would
definitely have been more effusive, more spirited, more detailed than
what I am about to write. But one more good review won't do it no bad,
and I promise to be - to the point if not short, so that you would by
now have determinedly made your mind to watch it. Well, what can I say,
it is based on a novella written by Stephen King, a prolific writer
suffering from highly activated carbon of imagination and a severe bout
of literary diarrhea. He writes definitely long prose, that to good,
but of course I have known him long enough just to give the chills. But
it has indeed given me pleasant surprise to find out that he has taken
out his time to write novellas/novels like 'Rita Hayworth and The
Shawshank Redemption' and 'The Green Mile'. The latter, to tell you the
truth, I haven't yet completed reading, it has been in limbo for some
two-three years, but though I don't care much about them, has received
pleasant reviews indeed. Now to the movie - except for Morgan Freeman,
the star cast was pretty much unknown to me. But of course, great
acting surpasses popularity. Each and every character of this movie had
acted natural, without affectations, delivering masterful strokes,
making this movie seamless and without even a protruded bump in its
fluidic path. Of course, it has a great story to back on. Andy Dufresne
is wrongly accused (as later in the movie, it is incontrovertibly
proved) of a crime of passion and is convicted to a life sentence for
the murder of two in a prison called Shawshank. Amidst the usual bets,
about which of the new inmates would break down on the very first day
(the old-timers call them their race horses), Andy comes in last. A
cold-blooded fish, he is assumed to be, by his inmates "Red" (who
considers himself to be Irish!), Bob and the rest of the "Red" Riding
Hoods, but soon enough, Andy earns their respect by going an extra mile
(and also to protect himself from some hostile elements) and bravely
puts up with the seriously dangerous warden (Bob Gunton) and his gun
toting whelp of a chief guard (Clancy Brown). He soon enough finds
himself much in demand! But seriously, life in prison is hell. Be it
the description of Arthur Road Jail (Shantaram!) or Shawshank in this
movie, they all give me jeepers. After vicariously experiencing life in
jail, I am always like, 'God, let me not commit any crime so notorious
that it lands me at this concrete hell'. Frank Darabont and Stephen
King have covered it all  be it the doublespeak that the warden
indulges into, the plight of institutionalized prisoners and the sheer
rottenness of the place. Amidst all that gloominess, like a tiny
flicker, a scintilla of hope somehow survives in the form of Andy.
Truly this movie is one of the best critically acclaimed (Imdb!) movie
I have seen so far And to think that Rita Hayworth, the American
beauty to be at the center of it all!!

******
19 January 2013
10
Starring : Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, James Whitmore Directed by :
Frank Darabont 1994 American drama directed by Frank Darabont walked
without an Oscar to its name but had a lion's share in attaining
critical acclaims and attracting the audience to it. This movie proves
all its way that films devoid of Oscars can still be counted under a
masterpiece. Set up in 1947, the film is about a smart banker Andy
Dufresene is imprisoned for killing his own wife and her lover. Though
he claims his innocence, he is thrown in a prison Shawshank where he
befriends a smuggler Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding alias Red ( Morgan
Freeman). The film exhibits different prisoners inside Shawshank and
how Andy tends to befriend them all except the Sisters (that is what
they are called ) who try to kill Andy just to have some little fun.
The protagonist is shown up passing his time creating artistic stone
carvings and watching sexy Hollywood actresses on the walls in his
cell. The film takes u on the ride inside the prison where cops take up
entirely over the souls and lives of prisoners. Andy being a banker is
plunged into money laundering business by one of the cops and the
warden. The warden himself as a man of principles but wait ! inside he
is just money- hungry beast. Even with concept of an old prisoner
Brooks ( Whitemore ) who has spent 50 years of his life in the prison
and gets 'institutionalized' with it and ends up hanging himself to
death when being released from Shawshanks adds up to the exciting plot
of the film. The film is basically Andy's 20 years of imprisonment
inside Shawshanks and his friendship with the fellow inmates and how
things inside prison too also gets illegal sometimes. Shawshanks
Redemption is a film which has a terrific ending. Watch it once and you
will have an urge to watch it again.

******
27 December 2012
10
There is nothing to criticize about this movie. It is made as subtle
and touching a movie can be. It never goes into emotions more than
necessary. The music, the story, the acting, everything is perfectly
orchestrated. It is delicate and beautiful in all the sense of the
term. It is such a shame that Morgan Freeman didn't got an award, it
would have been well deserved. Stephen King wrote again a masterpiece,
like the Green Mile, from the same author and the same film director.
Frank Darabont execute this story more in a tone that reminds me "Out
of Africa". The prison is a character by itself, all the actors
including the secondary roles are just perfect. Watching this movie
remains us the true meaning of hope, and that everything is possible. But what are you doing here? Rather than reading reviews, just buy it,
rent it and see it. It is one kind of a unique movie that you will
never forget.

******
3 December 2012
10
A wonderful film, truly one of the best ever made and deserving of its
place among the top films. There may be problems but the clever story
line and brilliant actors will distract you from that. Tim Robbins has
a good role as Andy Dufresne, the banker convicted for the murder of
his wife and her Lover. Morgan Freeman has an absolutely brilliant role
with his portrayal of Red, the experienced prison Fixer, in an example
of excellent casting. The film shows the corruption within the prison
system and has excellent characterisation. The idea of leaving prison
is questioned throughout the film, as the characters wonder how
beneficial leaving prison will really be. The film is certainly quite
violent but the storyline more then makes up for this. The ending is
delightful to watch but I won't spoil it. You should watch the film
yourself.

******
26 October 2012
10
I have often wondered, before seeing this film,how on Earth in became
the No.1 rated film on IMDb. I felt it was certainly overrated as there
were some masterpiece films that I believed deserved a higher rating,
such as the Lord of the Rings trilogy, Original Star Wars trilogy,
Godfather Parts I and II as well as other classics like the first
Matrix.However, I finally watched the film and I was completely stunned. I
just never expected the film to contain so much emotion and so little
of worthless action. This film is one of the best films ever made and I
believe it certainly does deserve a No.1 ranking on IMDb.The acting in this film is just superb, especially by Morgan Freeman. I
mean, this legend, is in some of the best films ever made like
Shawshank Redemption, Se7en and the Dark Knight. Morgan Freeman is
simply unbelievable in this film and the relationship between his
character, Red and Andy was just superbly filmed. It actually gave me
tears****SPOILERS****When Brooks was finally released from Shawshank, he realises the
outside world is too much for him and commits suicide. This scene was
just so sad it left me crying. The same when Red was released, I again
started crying. The scene were Norton kills himself was totally surprising and a shock
to me, realizing that Andy had truly defeated him and there was nothing
for him to live for.The ending scene where Red and Andy reunite after all those days, or
years, was just breathtaking and I was glad the film ended the way it
did. I've heard people complaining about the ending, saying that it was
too long and extended, but I strongly believe this ending worked
perfectly well.****END OF SPOILERS****Overall, if anyone hasn't seen this film I'll tell you know....GO WATCH
THE FILM....You won't regret it.

******
18 October 2012
10
Everyone says the shawshank redemption is one of the best films made
but i can't disagree. Everything about it makes it the film it is the
sound , setting and the narrating by Morgan freeman. The film is a
crime drama and we understand at the start of the film that Andy
dufrense is a intelligent man and seems very quite at the beginning of
the film, he seems a though he thinks a lot.We then get to understand Andy better when he becomes close friends
with red who is has been at shawshank for many years. we are then shown
as a spectator Andy experience in shawshank from fighting of the
rapists which then ends up with the main one getting transferred to
then helping out Hadley with his financial issues to then becoming a
friend of warden Norton. however this all changes when Andy finds out
the warden can help him to get out of shawshank because he can prove he
is innocent but the warden refuses to do this which turns out to be a
big mistake for him as we come to see one of the best scenes of movie
when we find out Andy had escaped from shawshank but not only doing
that giving the FBI all the corrupt documents that Norton was involved
in which then leads to the FBI coming to arrest Norton.we then see red walking along the beach and smiles at Andy as he is
walking up to him.It's not just the story than makes this a great film. the sound which
was used in the film made it even better the music used was just right
for each scene and was one of the best parts about the film also. if
you haven't watch the shawshank redemption yet i would recommend it.

******
22 August 2012
10
Yes it might contain some clichés and be somewhat predictable but this
film is an absolute masterpiece and it is a clear leader at the top of
my list of best films of all time. It is only a travesty that it didn't
win the Oscars it deserved because of the hype surrounding Forrest Gump
that year (not knocking FG because it is a great film also). This is the only film ever that everyone I meet agrees is a brilliant
movie. If you are just coming out of the jungle or have been locked in
a basement at the hands of a crazed lunatic for years and you somehow
are one of the few people on the planet who hasn't seen this movie then
you have to change that right now ! Watch it and Love it.

******
25 March 2012
10
As of March 2012, Frank Darabont's The Shawshank Redemption is sitting
pretty on the "IMDB Top 250" list with 731,886 ratings averaging at
about 9.2/10. That's astounding. On Rotten Tomatoes, a site much more
critical where it is a rarity that new movies possess a "fresh" rating,
the film has merited a 90%. Another commendable achievement. I bring
these two facts up because I'm just amazed at how high the film is
ranked. Here's a film that holds the "IMDB Top 250" list by a long
shot, yet doesn't immediately come to people's mind when thinking "the
best movie of all time." Of course, being on the "IMDB Top 250" doesn't
qualify as an official listing. Being featured on AFI's list is more
respectable, but still, it is subjective. Just a bit more broader and
stronger, since a group of high intellectuals choose the films. If one
looks further down the "Top 250" list, you'll see a number of
questionable entries such as The Dark Knight, Inception, and Toy Story
3. Their presence doesn't necessarily mean they're the best - just the
highest rated by people.But I have no quibbles about Shawshank's placing on the list; it is a
wonderful, wholesome parable about redemption and reassurance of one's
self worth while locked inside a penitentiary. We are met with
characters who are trying to escape the confines of a monotonous
lifestyle in prison, bot mentally and physically, and find a rare
amount of comfort when with each other. The film is adapted from
Stephen King's short story, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption - a
novella that isn't so much physical suspense and horror as it is
psychological horror; a different route for King, an author who has
focused so much on the supernatural and the victimized outcasts in his
long career.We are placed in Shawshank State Penitentiary, located in Maine in
1947, where Andy Dufresne (Robbins) is convicted of murdering his
cheating wife and her lover and is given two life sentences. Andy
assures he is innocent, but circumstances prove differently. He meets
Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Freeman), a man too serving life, who acts as
a con man who can get you anything you want as long as you give him his
asking price plus 20%. At first, Red doesn't think too much of Andy,
betting ten cigarettes with his buddies that he'll cry the first night
in prison.Andy doesn't cry. He seems rather content, despite the treatment and
hell he has been through. As time passes, by time I mean years and
eventually decades, Andy's relationship with Red grows. They become
understanding of each others positions, and Red takes a rare liking to
the man. So do many other prisoners. At first, Andy is a victim of
mistreatment and abuse from his villainous and heartless prisoners, but
he eventually keeps his head held high, and works out deals with Warden
Samuel Norton, who is played by Bob Gutton in a scarcely recognized
performance that is equal parts frightening and breathtaking, to do
odd-jobs around the prison to earn money, but more importantly,
respect.Not only do the prisoners become smitten with him, but the guards,
policemen, and suits alike. They admire his persistency. There comes a
time where Andy desperately wants more funding for Shawshank, not just
for bars, guards, and walls, but for books and to assimilate growth for
the feeble and decrepit library currently in the prison. The guard
tells him that he can write as many letters as he wants but the state
government won't pay any mind. So, Andy patiently writes one letter
every week to try and convince them why extra funding is vital.Here's where the spoiler comes in. The film's main morals are optimism,
self worth, and hope. The film's tagline perfectly spells out its
identity; "Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free." There is
a character in the film named Brooks (Whitmore), who is the prison
trustee. Upon being released from the penitentiary, Brooks commits
suicide by hanging himself. The reason was because he never had any
sort of dreams or plans. Never any vision of hope or compassion for
anyone. He was just a human being living in fear. Andy succeeds because
he has learned to carry optimism on his shoulders. He eventually
teaches Red the same lesson.The spoiler's over. Moving on, the film illustrates the passing time,
which I mentioned was decades, beautifully and naturally. The film will
seem long to some, but it shows how slowly the prison life plods along.
How mundane and redundant it must get to get up, confined to small
rooms, and work for very low wages every day. And you thought your
corporation job was miserably insufferable.But where Shawshank really excels is in its humanism. It evokes
prisoners as people, with morals and livelihood. Not as monsters. It is
true, many, many people in prison deserve to be there, but we never
look past the caricature of a psychopath or a deviant when we think
about what kinds of people are really in there. They're not all bad
people. People who question me on that should contemplate long and hard
on this question; is Red a bad person? Or even a monster? The Shawshank
Redemption is a marvelous journey through parts rarely explored. It is
immersing in not only its characters and story, but in its touching,
light cinematography which projects a wide range of dispositions
throughout the entire excursion. Rarely does a film rub us this way,
and rarely does one seem to rub everyone the same way. All the more
reason, its placement on the "Top 250" really isn't an exaggeration.Starring: Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, and Bob Gutton. Directed by:
Frank Darabont.

******
25 March 2012
10
This film is one of the few remaining masterpieces that hasn't needed,
nor will need to suffer the indignity of a poor remake.All throughout the film you feel truly connected to Andy & Red. From
the trial in court, getting off the bus, through to Red finally getting
his parole at the end.The genius of the tunnelling through the walls, covering them with a
poster, to the ingenuity of swapping the books and shoes over with the
incompetent warden.Very well directed, amazing actor's at their best.Highly recommend for anyone wanting a good film.

******
26 January 2012
8
As I'm writing this, the Shawshank Redemption is at #1 on the IMDb Top
250. That means that IMDb users have given this movie a higher rating
than the Lord of the Rings (2001-2003) movies, Forrest Gump (1994),
Titanic (1997), etc. Is the Shawshank Redemption that good? Of course
not, the IMDb Top 250 also puts Pulp Fiction (1994) and The Dark Knight
(2008) above those movies. So personally I can't take the IMDb Top 250
very seriously. It differs greatly from the All-Time Box Office lists
as well. So why is the voting behavior of IMDb users so different from
the movies people in general like to watch in the cinema? The Shawshank
Redemption, for example, didn't do so well in the cinemas. At the
Academy Awards of 1995 the Shawshank Redemption was beaten by Forrest
Gump and Forrest Gump has also done well at the Box Office. Yet in the
IMDb Top 250 Forrest Gump is at #28 (as I'm writing this). So why are
the differences so vast? In my opinion it has everything to do with
hype, what people understand (for example, for non-Americans Forrest
Gump is not as easy to understand as it is for Americans) and what
people want to be popular. What's really surprising is that the
Shawshank Redemption is not a movie about gays/pedophiles/anything
sexual (like I Love You Phillip Morris (2009) or Mysterious Skin
(2004)), drugs or mafia (like The Godfather (1972)), trashing
Christianity (like Paul (2011)) or anything along those lines, which is
what IMDb users are in general very fond of (as evident by the IMDb
ratings of such movies). Although the Shawshank Redemption is a prison
movie. So I guess it's "cool" to say that you like a prison movie, as
opposed to a movie that is about an unintelligent man (Forrest Gump),
romance (Titanic) or elves/dwarfs/hobbits (Lord of the Rings). Yet, I
guess, it's not very "cool" to go see it in the cinema with your
friends, due to the exposure of the friendship between two men (who are
not gay).Nonetheless, the Shawshank Redemption is an excellent movie. It's in my
opinion the best prison movie so far. One of the best movies ever? Nah,
but still very good. The casting of the movie is also excellent. It's
hard to imagine that anyone other than Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman
could portray Andy Dufresne or Ellis Boyd Redding as perfectly as they
have done. Everybody else in the movie has done an excellent job. The
performances are awesome. The story is enjoyable. Definitely a
recommended movie. Just don't expect it to be the best movie ever, as
the IMDb Top 250 may make you believe. It's, after all, based on a
Stephen King novel. Not that Stephen King is bad at what he is doing,
but he is certainly no J.R.R. Tolkien. Combined with the director of
the Shawshank Redepmtion, Frank Darabont, they are both certainly not
James Cameron. The Shawshank Redemption is just an excellent movie and
probably the best prison movie. That's it.

******
31 August 2011
9
Hope is a powerful thing. Allow it to poison your mind and it will
drive you to insanity; handle it with care and it will guide you to
redemption.The Shawshank Redemption is the story of a man, Andy Dufresne (Tim
Robbins), who has been convicted of a crime he claims he did not commit
 the gruesome double-murder of his wife and her secret lover in bed.
He is sentenced for two lifetimes at Shawshank State Penitentiary, one
for each murder. The lanky, soft-centered Dufresne is soon befriended
by Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding, another lifer, played magnificently by the
prolific Morgan Freeman, who is also the narrator of the story.What we see of Andy is through the eyes of Red. He is like the ocean 
calm on the surface, yet seething from within. He isn't shown crying,
begging for mercy or slipping into madness despite the fact that he is
forever haunted by his past and desire for redemption. The relationship
between the two men extends beyond just friendship  they are survivors
who need the company of each other to make it through the hell they
find themselves in.But the movie is not just about their friendship or Andy's desire for
redemption. The life in prison too has been displayed with remarkable
empathy. You feel for Andy as his life is brutally altered forever. You
feel for Red as he is repeatedly denied parole despite his immaculate
behavior. You feel for the men vilified and ostracized by society who
still have humanity left within them.The performances by the two lead characters, Robbins and Freeman, are
splendid. Robbins, in the shoes of Andy, touches you deeply with his
soft-spoken, timid nature; but Freeman as Red steals the pie. His
portrayal leaves a last impression on you and it is something you carry
with you even after the end of the movie. His haunting voice brings
life to the narrative as it resonates through the stony prison walls.
He carries his character with ease, not once letting his acting look
forced or contrived. I wouldn't be hesitant in stating that this is
certainly one of his best performances till date  and that's saying of
a man who has given breathtaking performances in Se7en, The Bucket List
and the Batman series. The other characters too fit their places  the
sadistic prison guard (Clancy Brown), the warden with rigid yet corrupt
principles (Bob Gunton) and all the other inmates each with a personal
life and voice of his own  nothing looks out of place. They work
together like cogs of a well-oiled machine, or in this case, a desolate
prison.A feature that strikes you distinctly about the movie is the varying
colour palettes. The hue of the film changes with the situation the
protagonist finds himself in. They are associated with the mood of the
scenario. When hope is bleak, the screen is predominantly grey which
conveys a sense of helplessness. In the prison, shades of blue create a
claustrophobic environment and overwhelm one with morbidity. At the
same time, when Andy is happy, the settings are bright which helps
develop an atmosphere of ebullience and joy.The movie released in the same year as other masterpieces like Pulp
Fiction, The Lion King and Forrest Gump. Unfortunately, it missed out
on the Oscar to the latter, yet IMDb terms this as the best movie of
all times. Despite the greatness of the movie, somehow I beg to differ
with that. I believe that there cannot be one best movie of all times.
This is a subjective area that varies with person and perception.Where does hope come into the picture? Everywhere. Just as with
Pandora's Box, when evil is overpowering, the only thing that remains
is hope. Coupled with clever dialogue and heart wrenching moments, this
movie reeks of emotions, out of which hope is the primary one. In the
words of Andy Bufresne, 'there's something inside... that they can't
get to, that they can't touch. That's yours.' It's hope.

******
20 June 2011
10
Shawshank Redemption deserves to be ranked among the elite films of the
past. Some complain that this will never be a classic and should not be
ranked with the Godfather, Schindler's List, Pulp Fiction...etc...Well
guess what...This masterpiece of a film is rare breed. Sooner or later,
a film deserving elite status WILL be produced,and there will be others
in the future. You complainers would have said the same idiotic thing
back in the early 70's, when The Godfather was released.Shawshank is a tremendous piece of work that forever will be thought as
one of the elites ever produced in the history of film and cinema.Shawshank deserves to be #1 and I hope it retains that position.
Someday another elite film will be released and may overtake Shawshank
and then the complainers will be out in full force once again! Can't
please everyone can we, typical stupidity once again.Thanks for such a wonderful piece of art and film....It's one DVD I
will always keep in my library for many, many years to come! Shawshank
Redemption is not the best film of the 1990's, it's one of the BEST
films of all time! Ranked right up there with other elite films of
similar caliber!

******
10 April 2011
10
There are very few films that leave me in tears and make me reflect
upon life in an extremely meaningful and profound way, and by God if
Shawshank hasn't been the best. Speaking as quite a young film enthusiast, I prefer more modern films
in general; I can appreciate the classics in their period of release,
but I think that we need to move on in order to advance and become more
sophisticated in art. I see people reeling off their favourite films
from decades past, past horror films, action films etc, and I think the
standard of films has risen so much over the past few years that the
only thing that makes some the classics seem tolerable is nostalgia.
Watch 'The Exorcist' or 'Star Wars' now and although you can see why it
was so popular, compared to their modern-day equivalents they don't
exactly blow your mind. This may seem naive, but I detest the notion
that because something was done first, it must be the best at it - we
learn from the past to move forward. But watching Shawshank, I wouldn't
mind if things stayed that way. There is nothing wasteful in this film
at all. Every single line, expression, scene and shot has significance
in the message that overrides the whole production. I'm just gushing now and I haven't even said much about the film, but
the fact that I was made to consider all this and then be compelled to
write about it, is proof enough of this film's worth. No matter who you
are, or where you come from or what you like, Shawshank will touch you
- it will make you laugh, cry and marvel at such excellence that is
nothing short of film-making perfection. No-one reads the reviews for this film other than to confirm what they
already knew - that this film is a masterpiece, and that it demands
recognition, so if by a minute chance you are reading this without
watching it, erase this review from your memory and watch it fresh
eyes. I thought this film was going to be a mediocre-fest that snobbish
critics drool over because of the word 'Redemption' in the title. And
that's the best way to watch it. Underestimate it, so that when it
blows your mind you can sit back and slap yourself in the face for not
already having seen it. And if you didn't feel that way after seeing, I
suppose you can just go back and re-watch Michael Bay's Tranformers for
the fifteenth time.

******
13 October 2010
10
I only need to write a few words. This film made me laugh, cry, cheer
and feel warm inside. Not a lot of films are capable of doing that. The
acting is brilliant and so believable. It's quite a long film, but
rightfully so. You are actually left feeling like you want more. Even
writing these words down makes me want to get it out and watch it
again. It is always a good time to watch this film. You will not regret
it.I'm actually surprised it hasn't got a full 10 stars.To the director i would say, Thank you for making this film!If you haven't seen it, watch it, right now. It doesn't matter what
time it is...go! seriously go now!

******
8 April 2009
8
Shank's a layman's classic. Talk to friends and family and the name
comes up as a favorite. The film has a tight structure and a nice rise
in tension, and we like the cast of characters. But what makes this a
favorite is a gimmick. At the finish-line of the film we feel that rise
of exhilaration where all is made equal. The antagonists meet their
ends and the heroes escape unscathed. The entire structure of the film
moves us and captivates us...Andy, the perfect victim, faces guiltless
punishment with little complaint and furrowed hope. Freeman's character
smiles in his wise way as counts the weeks he knows he deserves. The
film's theme of hope becomes apparent early on, and is not distinct
from other 90s dramas. Even so, it works with the film's tensions and
transfers that hope to the viewer in an unusually effective way. Sure,
its 90s sentimentality, and its not great cinema. But its like a potent
glass of wine, and can take our minds off our own problems and drop us
into that ever-circling illusion of hope that spurts from arts of this
sort.

******
7 April 2009
9
This movie beyond doubt the best movie I've ever seen.. The plot , the
acting , the setting are just amazing. Having said that I do have some
negative comments. No , negative isn't the word , perhaps just my
opinion on some parts of the film that could have been done better.The first thing that comes to mind is that I thought some bits were a
little too predictable. At some points during the movie I guessed what
they were going to say and I was right on the money. I didn't get just
get the same idea I mean I guessed word for word what they were saying.The second thing that bothered me a little was the ending. I don't want
to give anything away but the way 'Red' found it so quickly , I mean of
all the fields and brick walls in Bruxton, also the way he found Andy
on the beach was just ... I donno I guess I was a little disappointed
but I guess they had to make the ending like it is , the film is long
as it is ( eh , I guess I'll have to check the spoilers little square
thing now ).But hey , who am I to judge.Well I guess that about sums it on the negative points that I thought
this film had. I'm not going to state any good points because I'll be
here for weeks.

******
5 December 2008
10
All right people, without giving away any spoilers, I can sum up the
Shawshank Redemption in one word: FLAWLESS. To me, this movie is second
only to American Beauty, due to the latter's thought provoking aura;
however, technically speaking, this is the ultimate cinema achievement.
While it is almost impossible to single out a perfect film, the
Shawshank Redemption is a serious contender for the title of best movie
ever made. Now I know people will gloat about Citizen Kane's
cinematography or The Godfather's character development, but the
Shawshank Redemption beats them all technically wise (watch the movie
and see how everything works out flawlessly, it's really something
quite special). The movie has a unique charm about it, evoking a
tranquil response from the audience. The ultimate feel good film, the
Shawshank Redemption is a monument of cinema greatness. The only thing
the Godfather has over the Shawshank Redemption is the status of a
classic, largely due to critics' praise; on the other hand, movies
after the 1980's are considered as the "fall of cinema," or so it would
appear through a critic's POV. Well, those movies have something that
the so called classics do not, and that is the humane factor. After
all, we are humans with feelings, and I think that through "art
achievements" such as the Shawshank Redemption, human creativity itself
is elevated to a higher status. Evoking emotion in the audience, one of
Shawshank's greatest strengths, is what makes the cinema experience
what it is: the pinnacle of human achievements.

******
24 September 2008
9
The Shawshank Redemption is based on a short story by Stephen King.
Andy Dufresne (Robbins) is imprisoned in Shawshank Prison for killing
his wife and her lover. Inside, he befriends Red (Freeman), another
inmate, and keeps making changes around the place, which worries the
prison warden.I watched the film when I found out that it had beat "The Godfather" to
the top position on IMDb's Top 250 movies list. It was great, but I
don't quite think it deserves the Nr 1 position. Don't get me wrong,
the film is more than worth watching, but there's a lot of movies out
there, just as good as this one and there's nothing outstandingly
special about this one. It's great, nonetheless, and I can strongly
recommend it.9/10

******
22 August 2008
10
The Shawshank Redemption (1994) I've seen this film in its entirety now. Initially, I was afraid it
would be a violent prison movie with very little meaning and would have
very little to move me to tears. But it did. The film was Oscar worthy
but it was a film that lost that year to "Forest Gump". Its release on
VHS made the film very popular. Cable television airs the film
frequently and it's even the stuff that film screenplay classes study
as a sample of brilliant movie. Based on the short story by Stephen
King "Rita Hayworth and The Shawshank Redemption" it tells the story of
wealthy banker Andy (Tim Robbins) accused of murdering his wife and her
lover. The time at the start of the film is the 1940's and by the end
of the film it's the 1960's. Andy has been sent to Shawshank, a
notorious prison (in Washington state or Oregon) where harsh discipline
is provided by the Warden (Bob Gunton) and by its captain of prison
guards. The elements of a prison movie are indeed here (nightmarish
conditions, cruel punishment, gay prisoners raping straight/hetero
prisoners) but it becomes a prison movie at a higher level with its
theme of redemption and humanity, hope and perseverance. The bond
between Morgan Freeman's character and Tim Robbins is perhaps the most
poignant relationship of any two men portrayed on film. The prisoners
have lost hope and although not bitter, become very comfortable with
prison life and know no other type of life. This was the tragedy of the
prison librarian who after decades of prison life, could not cope with
the real world that had changed after his release. His suicide is
extremely depressing. The "bad guys" turn out to be not the criminals
who attempt to rehabilitate themselves but the hypocritical and cruel
Warden. Andy is innocent as proved by a later inmate's confession to
knowing the true culprit (played by Gil Bellows) but the Warden is too
bent on keeping his image of having always done justice and keeps Andy
in prison. The grim aspects of the film are nevertheless lightened by
humor, good writing, nuance in character and scenes that have such
power and subtlety. The scene in which Andy plays an opera album (Le
Nozze Di Figaro by Mozart, duet "Sull'aria from the 1968 Karl Bohm
album with Edith Mathis and Gundula Janowitz) is so moving and so
touching. Andy's subsequent escape and the table-turned justice when
the investigation into the corruption of the prison leads to the demise
of the administration.This movie ranks as one of the finest made in the 1990's, with
excellent writing and fine acting. It's a movie that has become a
classic and that continues to hold audiences enthralled.

******
15 August 2008
9
Always a favorite of the members of this site, "The Shawshank
Redemption" has proved itself to be much more than your average film
about prisoners. It took me a bit of time to reflect on this movie
before I truly realized how great it was. In this film, Tim Robbins
plays Andy Dufresne, a man sent to prison after being falsely accused
of murder. He meets Red (Morgan Freeman in one of his best roles), and
the two of them leave prison many years later as changed men. I can't
explain what sets this film apart from so many films like it, but it
simply fascinates me. Watching Andy bring redemption to himself and the
other prisoners and his clever methods of escaping from prison are
wonderfully done, especially when you don't realize until later what he
is doing. Perhaps my favorite scene of the film is when Morgan Freeman
gives his final speech on why he should be let out of jail, as this
truly displays how much he has changed throughout the film. His choice
of words is brilliant, and the scene can't help but make the viewer
think. The film could be cut down a bit, as some of the scenes are
fairly unnecessary and repetitive. However, even if you don't think the
film is anything special the first time you see it, give it some time.
"The Shawshank Redemption" gets better and better the more you reflect
on it in your mind, and the second viewing will prove it.***1/2 out of ****

******
15 August 2008
9
It is a well-known fact that The Shawshank Redemption is one of the
most well-made and moving films in the past twenty years as well as in
cinema history. It doesn't have the formula that fits most huge
successes. It consists of almost two and a half hours of dialogue
between many prisoners that carry on for nearly twenty years. To the
majority of movie-goers, that is a recipe for boredom. However, for
those who appreciate the medium of film as less than entertainment and
more as enlightenment, this is the perfect example.In order to be so effective, this type of movie really only needs two
very successful angles: the acting and the writing. Both are covered
quite well. Morgan Freeman is terrific as Red as are all the supporting
characters. However, it is Tim Robbins as Andy that sticks with me
after the movie is done. Somehow, and Frank Darabont deserves credit as
well for writing this character so thoroughly, Robbins is able to
embody a kind, considerate yet gentle spirit into a man that is
allegedly convicted of murdering two people. This alone is evidence to
show he couldn't have done it. With this blessing, he is able to
influence nearly everybody he comes into contact with, especially Red.
Together, they form a bond most people only dream of. And this is what
lies at the heart of The Shawshank Redemption. According to Andy, there
is a feeling, and idea that drives a man to try and overcome all
obstacles he faces and to not rest until he has done so. That would be
hope, and with this Andy Dufresne is determined to come out on top.Simply put, this is a true piece of art as well as being on the best
films of the 1990s and one of the best films ever made.

******
15 August 2008
10
Great movie! It deserves it's place of #1 out of 250! If you haven't
seen it, see it. I don't know if it's possible to make a better version
of this, because they did it perfectly the first time. It's a perfect
example of the human spirit, as many critics have already said.
Perfectly narrated, excellent acting, good script, nothing's missing! The story's from Stephen King, in Four Seasons. This is under Fall, I
believe. Stephen King wrote the novellas over a long period of time,
and another movie that spawned from that book is Stand By Me.If you haven't seen this, see it. If you want to see it, see it. If you
don't want to see it, you're probably crazy, but see it anyways. The
Shawshank Redemption is a perfect movie, and you should see it, if you
haven't already.4/4

******
15 August 2008
9
Misery and Stand By Me were the best adaptations up until this one, now
you can add Shawshank to that list.This is simply one of the best films ever made and I know I am not the
first to say that and I certainly won't be the last. The standing on
the IMDb is a true barometer of that. #3 as of this date and I'm sure
it could be number 1. So I'll just skip all the normal praise of the
film because we all know how great it is. But let me perhaps add that
what I find so fascinating about Shawshank is that Stephen King wrote
it.King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the
Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his
best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was
brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned
Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes
onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to
understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully.What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it
conveys. It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim
Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he
never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man
again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane,
but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a
different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and
I don't know if there will again.I'm not going to say any more about this film, it has already been
said, but just suffice to say that I am glad that Forrest Gump won best
picture in 94. I would have been equally glad if Pulp Fiction or
Shawshank would have won. It is that good of a movie and one that will
be appreciated for years to come.

******
11 August 2008
10
The Shawshank Redemption is just an utterly moving motion picture that
makes you really have a feel for the characters in this movie. It truly
will move you in some sort of way, because it is very deeply emotional
at times. Morgan Freeman did an excellent job as always and really put
on an amazing role in this movie. Tim Robbins truly stole the show with
his Grade A performance. If you have the time to sit through this very
long movie, then you should definitely see The Shawnshank Redemption,
because it is a motion picture that will make you feel in dept emotions
for the characters in the movie, it is by far a classic and one of the
best movies of the 90's.

******
26 July 2008
10
Well i have watched all the movies listed on IMDb top 250,all the AFI
100 movies and other major titles.But, without a single doubt in my mind, i can say this is by far, by
far the most beautiful masterpiece that Hollywood ever produced. It is
more than just a film because it takes you away with it. As Roger Ebert
writes "watching Shawshank takes away the feeling that you are watching
a film". That's exactly what it does to you, you become dissolve in the
characters and are able to feel the atmosphere.Tim Robbins as a quite Andy Dufresne is Brilliant. And Freeman as Red
what can i say even at this moment while writing this comments I can
feel his story narrating style and voice in my head.Direction, Cinematography and Screenplay are excellent. You can't take
you eyes from the screen for a second.The climax is one of the best i have seen.For people who haven't seen it i would like to say, you haven't seen
the most beautiful work of Art in the World.It deserves more than just ten Stars and seven Oscars nominations.

******
24 July 2008
10
When the movie starts also starts your journey through what is pure in
this life: friendship, hope, courage.This movie is a piece of art from which everybody takes what they need.
It gives us understanding of hard work which will be rewarded. It shows
that true happiness is what we are working for all our life.Isn't it wonderful, that true feelings and inspiration can visit us
just by watching a movie? But don't be mistaking. You aren't just to
watch the film. You have to receive it with your heart as much as you
receive it with your head.I guarantee that each of us will be smiling. Just like they did.

******
12 July 2008
10
Sometimes it takes watching a two-hour film set in a prison to
understand part of what life is about. At least "The Shawshank
Redemption" has me convinced that's the case. This movie is one that
does all the little things right and ultimately lets the story do all
the talking--a story of hope and finding meaning, purpose and
motivation in life or sometimes quite frankly, to live.Writer and director Frank Darabont, who is the unquestioned king of
adapting Stephen King prison stories and turning them into touching
motion pictures, debuts here as a director who has an understanding of
when to leave excessive artistic tinkering out of a film. Having
created this outstanding screenplay, the script and the images flow
seamlessly together throughout this film, so much that even the big
moments feel naturally styled. He uses dark and light contrasts and
some repetitive images to create a slightly fluctuating monotony to the
prison life and those are the only "tricks."The story is that of Andy Dufresne (Robbins), convicted to Shawshank
Prison in the opening minutes of the film to life x2 for the murder of
his wife and her lover. The film then shifts to the narrative of Red
(Morgan Freeman) who has been a con at Shawshank since he was very
young. While the film focuses on what happens to Andy in this vortex of
inhumanity, what you don't realize is how the story is really about Red
and what Andy makes him realize. Andy is a smart and clever guy and
most of the first hour of the film is about how he brings some humanity
to the prison and a mentality that is not common in a place with guys
serving life terms.Robbins was definitely ripped off on an Oscar nod. Its not that he
blows you away with his dramatic skills, but it's that as you watch him
you never once question his integrity as a character. Sometimes being
that believable should be worthy of an Oscar, not just over- dramatic
talents or actors playing unique roles. Freeman, however, gets his nod
and that was also deserved. If I could have anyone narrate my life, it
would be Freeman.The second hour of the film turns it into a bit of a thriller as the
warden (Bob Gunton) turns corrupt and begins to test Andy's limits.
While many films do this, what makes "Shawshank" special is that you
figure things out just as they are about to happen, which is
satisfying. It's not too early that you think it stupid, but it doesn't
come out of nowhere either. This hour of the film picks up the pace and
brings it from just a depiction of prison life to something special and
it's crucial to making the film as enjoyable as it is."Shawshank" is not one of my favorite films, but it's the kind of film
I could stop and watch every time it's on TV just because of its
prevailing positive attitude. While it is so dark, it is so positive
and motivating as it give the benefit of the doubt to those who do
wrong. It's unforgiving, but then it becomes redeeming. The way it
makes you conform to a prisoner's confined mindset and takes you out
into the real world in just snippets that seem just eye- opening like
the scenes in the grocery store can give you a whole other perspective
on life. That and the script just writes itself out exactly as you know
it should. Rarely does a film leave you as satisfied as this one does.
While it might not be an artistic masterpiece of cinema, it is truly
one of the greatest stories Hollywood has ever told.

******
18 June 2008
10
I've seen this film a few times now but its only recently that i can
really appreciate it for what it is, a truly remarkable story. As I've
grown up since the first time I've seen it, i could only remember the
main storyline and barley its characters and previously just thrown the
name of this film around in social circles to sound like i knew what i
was talking about. I find this story, the greatest story ever told
through the medium of film (although originally a novel) purely on its
merit and its inspirational tone towards life in general.I sit here choking on my words because none of them seem adequate
enough to describe how highly i think of this film and how much of a
heart warming glow i received after I recently sat down and really
digested its story. It is in my opinion one of the the best pictures
ever. I think it appeals to a lot of people. Its a story of friendship and
hope. Im sorry its THE story of friendship and hope no other can
portray the meanings of each better and i personally was amazed when i
found out there was no Oscar's to its credit.this film will always transcend decades and times as a great story

******
11 June 2008
10
An accountant named Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins is found
guilty of murdering his wife and her boyfriend. He is sent to Shawshank
prison, a prison run by a God-fearing and a strict warden. Andy meets
'Red' played by Morgan Freeman at Shawshank and the lives of the
prisoners and their emotions is captured in the movie in an excellent
manner. The premise of the movie looks too simple but there are a very
few movies that are as powerful as Shawshank Redemption. You can watch
this movie time and again without getting bored. The first time I saw
the movie, by the time it was almost coming to an end I felt that it
was a pretty good movie and then there was this unexpected and a
memorable ending followed by an explanation in Morgan Freeman's deep
voice that made the movie simply great. I couldn't help but stand up
and clap at the completeness of the movie. It captures every possible
human emotion and portrays them every possible way you wanna see it.
The movie runs at a pretty good pace, no lags or halts or irrelevant
scene added to enhance the effects of the movie, and a simple
background score. Or in other words this movie has its own natural
flow, nothing in it seems out of place. Add to all this is the fine
acting of Morgan Freeman, Tim Robbins and all the other support crew.
This is a classic and not to be missed for any reason whatsoever.

******
9 June 2008
10
The Shawshank Redemption is honestly one of the greatest movies ever.I
was too young when i watched it for the first time and i didn't get
much,so i watched it again some months ago.At the end i was left with a
feeling of freedom and perhaps redemption.This movie gives you
hope,which in my opinion is very importand.It is a movie about human
dignity,about always trying to be a better person.The Shawshank
Redemption is meant to change the person that watches it.I give it a
10,although it deserves much more.Apart from these,Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are absolutely
excellent. If i had to describe their performances with one word that
would be overwhelming.Let's hope more movies like this come out.

******
28 May 2008
10
One of the greatest films of all time. Frank Darabont, through his own
screenplay of this Stephen King story, directs arguably the most
powerful tale of hope and freedom in this masterpiece of a movie that
should be watched by all. Andy Dufresne, charged guilty of the murders
of his wife and her lover, is sent to Shawshank prison to serve
back-to-back life sentences. This is the account of his legendary stay
in the detention center as told by his friend, Ellis Redding. Packed
with outstanding performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, this
is perhaps one of the most memorable films of the nineties, nominated
for 7 Academy Awards including Best Picture which it ultimately lost to
Forrest Gump. It is one of those films that leave you elated by the
end, filled with happiness for its fictional characters that you
eventually feel for. This will be the most satisfying
two-and-a-half-hour film you'll probably ever sit right throughout. For
a film that looks targeted to a male audience, it is one that
transcends gender. Totally recommended.http://iwascalledclementine.multiply.com/reviews

******
12 May 2008
10
Along with Forrest Gump, this is my #1 movie of all time.This is a painful movie to watch... but just like Forrest's mom told
him when she was dying of cancer, "Pain if a part of life, Forrest." I
believe there's value in feeling the pain this movie emits to its
viewer.No one else in the world could have played the role or "Red" better
than Morgan Freeman; indeed, he was born to play this role, period. His
performance was simply off the hook, and largely what "made" this
movie.The ending of the movie is a real tear-jerker, yet so satisfying,
leaving the viewer with such a nice, warm comfortable feeling. So, in a
sense, you have a sad, gut-wrenching movie that actually has a happy
ending.This movie was perfect.-Tracy Milburn

******
4 May 2008
10
That's normally pretty hard to say, though the fact that the book is a
Stephen King novella (150ish pages +/-) makes sense why the movie is
better. Not bashing King here, just saying most of the movies based on
his work tend to be pretty decent and novellas aren't meaty enough for
my taste. Most the time when I finish a novella I wish there had been
more substance.As far as the movie goes, I'm sure everyone else has mentioned why it's
so great. If you love this movie check out the book, they're pretty
much dead on besides a few details. Unlike other novellas of King's
e.g. Apt Pupil ... the extra details in that book made it so much
better than the movie.

******
4 May 2008
10
Spending decades in prison for a crime you didn't commit can make an
impact on your life. When you bond with a fellow inmate, life will be
easier, and redemption follows through. In "The Shawshank Redemption",
two fellow inmates bond throughout the years of hardships and good
times. Andy Dufresne(Tim Robbins), was arrested for killing his wife
and lover, out of pure anger. He meets Red(Morgan Freeman) and they
spend years together ironing out the rough spots. With all other
dangerous inmates around like murders and rapists, prison life is a
living hell! Sometimes the real villains in prison are the officials,
including the warden(Bob Gunton), who was the worst of the bunch. Other
inmates who raped or stabbed others got worse treatment than the other
convicts. Being in the "Hole"(Solitary Confinment) is not for the weak.
One elderly convict Brooks Halten(James Whitmore), couldn't adapt to
society very well when he got out. Got a new place and hangs himself.
Andy, is very clever. He out cons the warden, gives Red a chance to
live the good life, and he made himself a new man. There's a second
chance for ex-convicts, if they can give it. 5 stars!

******
4 May 2008
10
The story is about a banker (andy) innocently serving a life sentence
of prison for the murder of his wife and all the incidents that come
about in there. I really admired the character of andy who still has
the hope of living in a free environment.His a very smart fella with
lots of plans in mind about the future yet inside prison. Undoubtedly
it is the best movie i have ever seen. The scenes are very delicately
chosen. SO many intuitive points in this movie that i recommend
multiple watch of it. I really liked the acting which was so natural.It
was like a real story.I'm still amazed that why hasn't this movie
received any Oscars. I thank the director for such a great movie.

******
4 May 2008
10
I was turned on to this movie by my late uncle Ed. He is forever
captured in my memories every time I see this wonderful movie or hear
the soundtrack. The Harmonica and orchestra is so intense, it just
lives with me forever. Our favorite track was Zihuataneho, it is where
we will meet in heaven. Thomas Newmann has created so many beautiful
soundtracks, but this is my all time favorite. The greatest ending of
any movie, it just lets us know that in the end, justice will be
served... When I think of this movie my favorite line is get busy
living or get busy dying. Tim Robbins and the warden, am I being
obtuse.

******
3 May 2008
10
After just watching this film again for a fifth time or something, i
felt compelled to do my very first movie comment on IMDb. This movie
left me shaken with so many emotions, after a ride through so many more
of those emotions throughout the movie, that i am sure i will watch it
again not too far in the future. Maybe ride is not the best way to
describe this, it was more like an gentle but firm hand guiding me
along, letting myself be the one who decides how to react to the turns
and pictures of this film. And just when i started to catch the drift
and thought I've had it all figured out, this film surprised me once
more in a way i never would have suspected.Another big plus is that you don't get distracted by the actors,
because they are all at their best. Every character has some real
contribution to the story, and the actors are just great in their
roles. Amazing is a better word. Great Acting! I never had a reason to
doubt any characters authenticity.I have never checked if this movie has been nominated, or won any
prices, but if it hasn't, it should. I don't now if the story of this
film could happen in the real world, but the emotions it invoked in me
are true and real, and it got me thinking about life and the way i
conceive freedom in a whole new way.I apologize for my writing style for i am not a native English speaker.
Any corrections or improvements are welcome and appreciated as i am
alway keen to learn.

******
24 April 2008
10
I have to admit I ignored this film in the 90's because I thought it
was a violent film set in a prison with a bleak experience but seeing
it last Holy Week, the movie moved and inspired me. The film was about
Hope, Faith, Friendship and Determination and Guts, We have been
prisoners of our own lives whether it be jobs, family life, social
issues, you name it which becomes so routinary yet we never dared to
grow further ahead that there are things outside our walls that are
never discovered. This film teaches you that. What use is our dreams, talents and positive outlook in life when we're
not determined to push it further to the next level? It is really an
inspiring film to watch over and over again, and something that you
could share and teach to other people who have given up hope and faith.
Indeed it quickly became one of my latest movie bibles of all time
Whenever you feel hopeless and down watch this film and be revitalized
to pursue your dreams and recover from your losses.Get busy living or get busy dying.

******
29 March 2008
10
Yes this is simply a magnificent piece of work which remains powerful
and moving and probably always will.It's been 14 years but who can
forget such a masterpiece.This is a movie about how strong the human
faith and spirit can be.Even in the most difficult moments we have to
remain strong and believe in justice.This is what Shawshank is all
about.I have never read the Steven King novel but he definitely should
be proud that a director such as Frank Darabont has the passion and
desire in making a powerful and faithful adaptation to King's work.A
moving film with superb performances from all the actors but the real
credit goes to Tim Robbins as the wrongfully accused Andy Dufresne
whose spirit and will help him find freedom and Morgan Freeman as Ellis
'Red' Redding who serves a life-long sentence but hopes he can be freed
from guilt.Throughout the movie we witness much suffering,injustice and
sorrow but that's what makes the characters so pleasant and worth
sympathizing for.Andy's desire to become a free man again is truly a
magical but also difficult adventure.But he never loses his hope and
that is what helps him succeed.The final scene when Andy and Ellis meet
each other outside the steel cage prison is phenomenal and touching.It
is a real shame that a movie so great didn't win a single Oscar
although it had 7 nominations.А real unfairness cause this movie is
indeed better than Forrest Gump.In conclusion I'll just say that
Shawshank is a timeless masterpiece and deserves to be in the top 10
greatest films of all time.

******
13 February 2008
10
The best film I've ever seen, better than the godfather in my opinion,
come to think why if this has 9.2 and godfather has 9.1, why is
godfather still top in the top 250 films. it doesn't work. But anyway
back to the film, if you have not seen it, you have to definitely watch
it!T h i sF i l mi sa m a z i n g.If you do not see it before you die, you are missing out on possibly
the best film you will ever see in your lifetime. i beg of anyone
reading this watch this film, it is an actual masterpiece.

******
24 July 2007
10
The shawshank redemption is the greatest film of all time, in my
opinion. Having read great reviews for the film, i was determined to
watch it myself. And that was probably the greatest film decision ever
made by me. I will never forget the engrossing intensity of this
masterpiece, it will stay with me and many others for years to come.It centres around a wrongly convicted prisoner Andy Dufresne and
another nicknamed Red by his friends. After Red sees the wrongful
imprisonment he becomes Andy's best friend and they create an
unbreakable bond that is the core of the film. Years go by in Shawshank
prison and the pair live with the tortures of shawshank. The neglect,
the murder and the horror.But Andy changes this. He does extraordinary things for the inmates. HE
befriends the guards, builds a big library and helps people with their
problems. He saves them from institutionalisation.In the end an incredible series of events allows Andy to turn these
factors on the prison and to get the responsible people imprisoned
themselves. Andy escapes and leaves for a new life abroad. Red is
released soon after and follows him. The ending sees them reunited.This is a definitive tale of how the human spirit can be denied
nothing.

******
4 July 2007
10
I Thought this movie was the most amazing movie I've ever seen next to
The Lord Of The Rings Trilogy, i don't know why its not there next to
The Shawshank Redemption. I've watched this movie now a fair few times
and on the special features on the DVD i seen the Director goes onto
this site IMDb. And he also said that His movie has been in the top of
the charts for years now been switching up and down between The
Shawshank Redemption And The Godfather. I Think The Shawshank
Redemption should be at number one because its just a pure inspiration
to the movie industry and it should have a cinema anniversary or
something with its 15th anniversary or something, i thought this movie
was pure brilliant and i see everyone else nearly everyone else thinks
the same, But it seems the director has only made one film that has
been descent after this which was The Green Mile. That was good but not
as good as The Shawshank Redemption, But good. Its seems the Director
is an expert at Prison Films because he hasn't done well with his other
films only 'The Shawshank Redemption And 'The Green Mile'. I Still
think he's a really good director. I Own it on DVD and Own The
Soundtrack, its brilliant , i love the songs from it. Anyway thats it,
I Hope to make a film like this in the future as though I'm only 17
living in Ireland, The film industry in Ireland is rubbish so i
struggling to get ideas of what i can do to push myself to an idea that
could give me the lift tha ti need to star my film career alight, I
Love films so much. Anyway thats it , I LOVE this film. PS . Sorry for
the bad spelling i had typed a bit quick. Bye, Email me if your as
interested in film as i, Or possible the director, if your looking at
this could you email me, gives us ideas man, Cheers. ,
zkeveoz@hotmail.com Thanks Kevin Walsh

******
28 June 2007
10
This has to be one of the only films that, if not actually hitting
perfection definitely brushes it.At first one would be wary of it I'm sure. A Stephen King novel about
prison doesn't at first sound too stimulating (especially if you have
watched Christine, a killer car cmon!) but it certainly does stimulate.Even if you cannot understand or relate to the underlying message of
conformity and institutionalisation that the script is getting across
it doesn't matter as the characters are believable due to high quality
acting on everyones part.As my summary says perfection. The directing in this is perfect, every
scene every shot seems to have been thought out to maximum potential.
The acting is not over emotional like many a film is these days or not
wooden like many other films are but its believable, emotions just
right, every facial expression effective.Though I'm more a fan of unconventional cinema that doesn't follow the
standard Todorov form of thesis, anti-thesis and synthesis. This still
strikes a chord with me because it seems to raise it's standards above
that of the classic cinema standard.All in all I will defend this movie till death as it really is one that
you must watch. For those of you who have already watched it, I plead
you to watch again.

******
7 June 2007
10
I simply do not know how some people out there voted this movie
anything less than a 6 or 7, but a small percentage had the audacity to
vote it a "ONE"! There are always that small percentage. Sometimes I
believe people vote down other movies in some attempt to get THEIR
favorite movie into a certain spot. The fact that people put that much
effort into doing so amazes me. I'll take the time to comment on a
movie and give my 2 cents worth of opinion. This movie was a classic
the day it premiered and the 2nd place showing overall demonstrates
that without fault. My hope is those who voted it down somehow obtain a
clue.

******
30 May 2007
10
like "The Shawshank Redemption,"The Green Mile" is another case of a
Stephen King story which translates well from the page to the screen.as
in "Mile",this movie is also directed by Frank Darabont,who also wrote
the screenplay.another similarity is the prison setting and the fact
that the movie is seen and told through the eyes of one man (Morgan
Freeman)who just happens to be a prison lifer and the things he sees as
the years go by.he tells the story of one man who becomes a
prisoner(TIm Robbins) and who he becomes friends with.the movie then
chronicles their friendship and struggles in the prison system.unlike
"The Green Mile",there is no mystical or supernatural element to this
film.however,this film is of the same calibre of "Mile",owing to its
solid writing, acting, and direction."Shawshank" is very dramatic,yet
very compelling.it's also a very moving tale.it will likely impact you
emotionally and intellectually. and before i forget,i must also mention
the ending,which i thought was very strong.for me,"The Shawshank
Redemption" is a strong 10/10

******
23 May 2007
10
This movie is well deserving of #2 of all time, if not it should be #1.
This movie has #1 most votes cast for any movie, and as anyone should
know, the more people that vote, the more accurate the rating should
be. As of now May 24th 2007, there is 255,456 people who have rated
this movie. 150,715 rate it 10/10.This movie is not over-rated and remains my favorite movie of all time.
Why? I can pop this movie in at ANY time and thoroughly enjoy it. There
is no other movie that does this for me. And thus will most likely
remain my favorite movie of all time. If you have not seen this movie yet, what are you waiting for. BUY IT
NOW. You will certainly love it.

******
7 May 2007
10
This film was so deep. Suicide, murder, innocence, friendship and of
course hope.I watched only a bit of this film at one point and thought its alright.
But i looked at its rating being no.2 and thought "really". I was then
desperate to see what makes this film the top of the nineties. Watched
it with my family and it simply blew me away. The way it was sad was
happy just realising that Andy difference (who was arrested for
murdering his wife and her lover when drunk) was all this time innocent
after spending 19 years in shawshank prison. its the police that show
who are the good guys but in this its the other way round and the way
it was done was exciting and intelegant.The scripts was fantastic, the acting was sensational and most of all
the story was one the best ever explained in a film (infact the best
ever).we all have our opinions but if you think this film is rubbish for no
specific reason then there is something wrong with you.

******
2 May 2007
8
Let me start by praising 'The Shawshank Redemption' as is it's due.
This is a gripping, manipulative, emotional prison drama with a tricksy
plot based on a Stephen King story: as often with King, it's
implausible, but director Frank Darabont handles its development so
well that it seems believable as you watch it. Praise given, I now need
to make clear that I do not consider this one of the best movies of all
time, in spite of the ecstatic opinions of IMDb users (and others).
First of all, the film paints a somewhat romantic picture of prison
life. This may seem an odd thing to say (the life of the convicts is
terrible), but the characters divide neatly into good guys and bad
ones, the good ones share a sense of community but what's lacking is
the idea that the victims of the prison world were the violators of the
free one; all the murderers seem far too cuddly to convince. The only
possible exception is the lead character, whose almost inhuman resolve
makes it seem highly possible that (in spite of his protests to the
contrary) he is justly imprisoned; when this ambiguity is resolved
half-way through, the film loses something, and he becomes more myth
than man. The real problem with the main twist (and the uplifting
message it imparts) is not its improbability, but that it softens the
world-view of the movie too much. The other main problem is that the
film is too long: a braver director might have cut it dead at the crux,
but Darabont insists of tying up every loose end, and wringing out
every last drop of emotion in the process. It's still a very smart
piece of entertainment; but its claims to greatness lie mainly in being
exactly what its audience want to watch, rather than in supreme
artistic merit.

******
23 March 2007
10
I still remember my satisfaction when I came out of the movie theater
and thought with myself: this is the best movie I've ever seen.More than 10 years have gone since, and I still think the same way.
Why? Because it makes you go through almost every single feeling a
human being can feel. Love, hate, sadness, loneliness, friendship...
and above all, hope. Hope is beautiful. Hope is essential.There were times in my life that, for any reason, I needed to feel some
hope, so I watched this movie and life seemed wonderful again. It gives
you the impression that everything is possible, and no matter how bad
you're feeling, you'll be certain that everything will get better.Besides all that, the movie plot hooks you through the entire movie,
not to mention the amazing performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman.It's a masterpiece and should not be missed by anyone.

******
14 February 2007
10
I first saw this film when it came out in 1994 and unlike what most
people may have thought, I loved it. I thought that it should have most
definitely taken the Best Picture award over the vastly inferior and
vastly overrated Pulp Fiction. This is the kind of film that comes
along only once in a lifetime. The story, the gripping performances,
the settings, the acting, everything molds together to make such a work
of art. This goes beyond film making I believe. I'm having a loss for
words to describe this piece of cinematic brilliance.The best I can say is that you just have to see this for yourself to be
able to appreciate its beautiful storytelling and the message it gives
you. Watching this movie will give you hope and courage. Courage to get
through your everyday life. To overcome any obstacles you may encounter
on your path in life. This movie is simply this powerful. Rent it or
better yet, buy it now and witness for yourself why this is #2 on the
top 250 list. Personally, it's #1 for me and a lot of others.

******
4 December 2006
10
My heart did back flips when I discovered that "The Shawshank
Redemption" had been rated the #2 movie overall by users of the IMDb.
There is little that can parallel my satisfaction of knowing that the
viewing public can still tell excellent film when they see it, despite
dangerous competition with other pictures of its time. Particularly in
a year (1994) which saw the release of Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp
Fiction", family-friendly blockbuster "The Lion King", and the
now-immortal "Forrest Gump" (all of which are, indeed, outstanding
films) it would have been easy for "Shawshank" to glide under the radar
of North American audiences of the time, and of future years. Yet here
it stands, one of the most widely recognized and highly praised movies
of the century.But why? What of the films like "Forrest Gump", "The Lion King", and
"Pulp Fiction"? How has "The Shawshank Redemption" stood stronger
against the test of time than its award-sweeping, box office-smashing
contemporaries? Much of the credit goes to writer Frank Darabont, whose
screen adaptation of Stephen King's short story assembles the plot of
the film in such a way, that this movie gets better and better every
time you watch it, while all the time spelling out an inspiring and
important message of hope and, as the titles indicates, redemption.Brought to life by a stellar cast and splendid cinematography, "The
Shawshank Redemption" is proof that given the time, the cream always
rises to the top.

******
14 September 2006
10
This is THE greatest movie of all time, bar none. It should be #1, I
don't care if you love Star Wars or if you love The Godfather. I don't
like them, don't get me wrong, they maybe great movies in somebody
else's eye, but how the whole world cannot relate to the Shawshank
Redemption is incredible.It just shows the difference between some people. I am probably being a
bit shallow here, but I believe all the evil, racist and bad people
have not seen the Shawshank Redemption, and if they have seen, haven't
really understood it. They're too narrow minded. If you understand this
movie, it will change your life, make no mistake about it.After I saw this, I just knew...you in life, there are some things you
just KNOW, with gut instinct...eg, when your in love or something? I
just knew, no matter how old I got, how mature I became...I would never
see anything like this. I am only 19 and god knows how many movies I
may see in the future, if I live long enough but I can honestly say, I
will not ever see anything better.This just sums life up. If I don't watch this like every now and again,
my life seems incomplete. If I don't visit the IMDb page I feel
incomplete. If I don't participate with the fellow Shawshankers on
IMDb...I feel INCOMPLETE.This brings happiness to my soul deep inside. Brings a smile to my
face. People can say what they want about clichés, and cheesy moments
but I don't care. This movie stirs the soul and if somebody can
actually HATE something like this...then your not human.This movie shows....in every circumstance, that GOOD always prevails
over evil. I don't want to spoil it for those of you who haven't seen
it, but Redemption is a great thing.We have all been through pain in our lives, and if you haven't...you
will. This movie gives you tremendous hope. You will get far in life,
if you stick by that word...HOPE."When you walk through a storm, hold your head up high. At the end of
the storm there's a golden sky.Walk on through the wind. Walk on through the rain. Though your dreams
be tossed & blown. Walk on, Walk on. With 'HOPE' in your heart...and
you'll NEVER walk alone" No matter what you've been through, you can
get through it and become a stronger person. You can literally have
feces all over you but you will STILL be clean. Watch it and you will
know what i'm talking about.If you haven't seen this, then you don't and will never understand life
truly.Just watch it, and watch out for the memorable acting from Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins.They don't make movies like this anymore......

******
26 August 2006
8
Word of mouth alone has turned this modest prison movie into something
of a classic and there are many people who rate it as their favourite
film. It's what's probably conventionally called 'a man's picture' but
there are many women who love it, too. And there is no denying it's a
good tale well told. There is nothing ostentatious about it. It's
writer/director Frank Darabont was new to movies and he didn't do
anything out of the ordinary. He structured the film like a forties or
fifties film; old fashioned, traditional and likable, but not a great
movie by any means.And yet it has scenes that stay in the memory and which people recall
fondly, (even if they are very brutal), and dialogue which sounds
familiar. Unfortunately, early in the film there is a clip from "Gilda"
that is more iconic than anything in Darabont's film. (Sometimes homage
can be detrimental to a film).Tim Robbins is fine as Andy, the young banker in Shawshank for the
murder of his wife and her lover, (the film basically confirmed his
star-status), but it is Morgan Freeman who walks away with the film
with a quietly magnificent performance as Red, the old timer who
befriends Andy and who is the film's narrator. Freeman gives the film a
dignity and gravitas it really doesn't deserve.

******
4 July 2006
7
This is not a bad film, and I would recommend renting it. But its
admirers who rank it as one of the best films of all time -- even above
classics like Citizen Kane or The Godfather -- are seriously overrating
it.The popularity of this film apparently comes from its uplifting message
about the power of hope. Nothing else in Shawshank Redeption is
extraordinary. The acting is only good: indeed, Tim Robbins's acting of
Andy Dufresne is two-dimensional. Morgan Freeman is much better as Red.
The photography is unremarkable. Most seriously, however, the moral
dilemmas in this film are melodramatic and black-and-white. Andy
Dufresne is impossibly noble. The guards and, especially, the warden
are unbelievably evil and corrupt. It's nice to think a prison would be
reformed by building a nice library. But sorry, folks, the world is
more complicated than that. At best, this film can be enjoyed as a kind
of uplifting fable, a sort of fairy-story for adults. Nobody struggles
with the ambiguities and complexities of real life in this film, and so
the "redemption" it offers is false.As a point of comparison, take another film in this "criminal
redemption" genre -- Dead Man Walking, a film, significantly, by Tom
Robbins. Here is real, tough, moral drama. Can we forgive the Shawn
Penn character? Is his redemption real? The film poses these questions
without answering them. Plus the acting is rich and nuanced, the
direction riveting. Dead Man Walking is much better film than Shawshank
Redemption because it's about real life.

******
23 April 2006
10
This is probably one of the best films of all time.IMDb ranks this as
the second best film of all time behind "The Godfather".It can arguably
be the best film of all time considering that its message of hope and
inspiration to everyone.It is a short story from Stephen King.The Shawshank Redemption is a poignant story of Andy Dufresne,a wrongly
convicted killer who was sent for two life sentences to Shawshank
Prison in Maine.It tells us on how Andy lived inside the walls of the
Shawshank,being raped from time to time by convicted homosexuals
felons,his friendship with Red,having a sense of hope despite of his
seemly hopeless situation,making the most of his life by using his
accounting skills by helping the guards in their income tax and
cleaning the warden's dirty money and to finally escaping from prison
through a hole in the wall hidden under poster of women such as Rita
Hayworth and Rachel Welsh.Great acting especially by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.Direction was
superb by first time director Frank Darabont.The musical score was also
good.I view this film from time to time to remind myself that there is
hope in all situations even those I consider hopeless ones.It also a
story of letting go of hatred and letting love flow into your heart
despite of being around despicable characters.Aside from that,this film is neither contrived nor manipulative as it
is full of surprises.It will truly be enjoyed by anybody who love great
films and those who wants films that can truly uplift the human
spirit.In the end,this movie will be talked about for the next 20 to 50
or more years to come.Personally it my favorite film of more than a
thousand films I seen in my life for it is a classic film on hope and
redemption.

******
27 March 2006
5
I saw this movie mainly because it was rated so highly in IMDb. It was
a decent movie but it should not be number 2. It has Morgan Freeman and
his wonderful voice so that's certainly a plus. The messages of the bad
guys getting it in the end is nice as well as keeping one's hope alive
in adverse circumstances. I didn't really think the gestapo like guard,
who is able to kill anyone on a whim, was very believable. Even
convicted felons have loved ones who would want answers. Besides,
guards know that one day the tables may be turned on them and this
usually tempers their cruelty. Vicious guards are usually "dealt with"
by the inmates, so I don't believe a guard like this could last long,
and certainly not over 20 years. And how is it that the warden and
chief guard are in the same job at the same prison for over 20 years? I
don't really buy the massive kickbacks the warden was getting
continuously either. Prison labor in the USA usually involve trash
picking, farming & soap making for institutional use and license plate
stamping. These are not highly profitable industries. Neither was I too
thrilled by the subtle cynicism aimed at the Bible and those who read
it. Lots of convicts "get religion" and it is generally a good thing.
Also, the quick series of mini-scenes leading me by the hand through
the resolution (baptism by sewage, screaming headlines, screaming
sirens, arrests and suicide) seemed fairytale like. At least you can
say that the movie raises awareness of the fact that there are wrongly
convicted people in prison and that savage inmates beat and rape each
other. I did like the demeanor of the main character, Andy, our victim
cum hero. A mix of being quiet, brooding, deliberate, cautious,
willful, sly and subdued. This is a nobler hero than what you see in
many Hollywood movies. And Morgan's performance as Red reminds us that,
felon or not, inmates are still quite capable of humanity. So in
general, I didn't mind watching this movie. It entertained me. I just
wouldn't include it in my list of best movies. I would not want to
watch it again.

******
18 March 2006
10
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman deliver performances worthy of cinematic
heaven. No where do we spot the intention of their performances, only
the gradual development of a friendship that transcends race, age, and
social class.The line between guilty and innocent, although blurred amongst the
inmates, is animated by the corrupt guards, and the abysmal treatment
of men who have sand piles on their weary shoulders.Redemption is the predominate theme, as well as perseverance and
friendship through situation. Biblical undertones pervade: Robbins
bears oppression that angers the viewers until the redemptive secret is
revealed.The institution, the jail, as metaphor for society often succeeds. The
"instituional man" cannot survive beyond the social structure behind
the walls. He is a lost soul without the community of thieves and
murderers that defines his existence. What is a man, but a success
amongst his peers? One of the best films of the twentieth century.

******
9 March 2006
10
After just seeing this,i have to say i think its one of the best
adaptations of a Stephen King story.And one of the few films that can
be called a "moden classic". The Plot:After the police in Maine find the bodies of a married woman and her
lover,who were shot eight times.They bring in the married woman's
husband.A hot-shot banker Andy Dufren(Tim"The Mystic River" Robbins)
.Who clams that he is not guilty.At the end of the case,Andy is found
guilty and given two life sentences at Shawshank prison Maine.When he
is first there he is very closed off from everyone.And has fights with
a prison group called "The Sisters".Until he tells a guard how to keep
money from a will.While in there,he gets the trust of the guards and
the warden and builds a strong friendship with a black marketeer named
Red(played fantastically by Morgan"The Dreamcatcher,The
Se7ven"Freeman).Things are going well,till an inmate Tommy,tells
Andy,that in a prison he was in,he met the man who did the murder Andys
in Shawshank for.The warden,who thinks Tommy is to much of a risk for
his money business due to Andy doing all work for him),so he kills
Tommy.After this,Andy decides its time he gets out of Shawshank.View on
the film:The cast. This is one of the rare films,where all the cast just click
into there roles.The two leads Robbins and Freeman,who give some of
there best work in this film.The way they work and build there
friendship in the film,that is sadly rarely seen in any movies.The
supporting characters in the film do a really good job at standing out
and not feeling like they are just card-board cut outs.The main one in
the supporting cast that stand out is James Whitmore as Brooks.who
makes a very enjoyable characters,who you feel very sad,to see go out
in a very sad way.The Screenply/Direction.Wirter/director Frank"The
Green Mile" Darabont (who made a student-film based on a King short
story:The Woman in the Red Room),does a screenplay that easily improves
on the short story.While Kings short story spent (i feel) a bit to much
time on the exposition in his story,while Darabont makes sure to keep
the set-up going at a good pace,and to tighten some of the story
lines(Brooks was hardly in the short story,Tommy was not killed).But he
makes sure to keep the feel of the story so they do not feel as strange
add-ons to the story.The direction the Darabont does is to make sure to
see the actors work build in the scenes,while doing a good job at
keeping the film going at a pace that does not feel over-long
(something that is rare with movies now). Final view on the film:A movie anyone can enjoy,from age 18-80!

******
16 January 2006
7
This is by no means a bad movie, but it's certainly not as great as
many people claim. I have watched it a couple of times already now and
I just don't see what's so brilliant about it. The story is good, but
not excellent. The acting of the biggest part of the cast is good, but
I really can't identify myself with Andy, the main character. He is
sentenced to life imprisonment, while being innocent. Though, he just
doesn't do it for me. You would expect me to feel sympathy for him,
because of his situation. To a certain degree I do of course, as I do
with anyone who is done injustice. But that is not enough, that's why I
think this movie is overrated.

******
28 November 2005
10
This is the best movie of all time. It has a great cast in Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins. This is the greatest movie based of a book I
have ever seen. Every character filled every role to the best they
could and they all did great. When you first watch this movie you think
the story is about Tim Robbins character but when you watch it a second
time you actually see that its a story about Morgan Freeman. I love
this movie and always will. Watch this movie its the best there ever
was. Also Tim Robbins should have won an Oscar for his performance in
this movie. I give this movie ****/****. This truly is the best movie
of all time, it is definitely better than The godfather.

******
22 October 2005
10
One of the most satisfying movies ever. Anyone who has seen this film
is being gradually overwhelmed by the injustice towards a single man;
and while the scenario unfolds a grim, but also an unpredictable
future, the hero reveals at the end his so far unrealistic stance in
everything inside the prison. Redemption is not a utopia on this film.
A scarce thing to see in the majority of today's movies. It perfectly
reflects an every day person's point of view in assessing things and
his life by "get busy living or get busy dying". And although it
contains some dramatic characters, it gives the final sensation to the
audience that hope can really change things, no matter the costs
involved. A sensation that is amiss from today's movies, which try to
present a realistic ending or character. Movies were not made to be
totally realistic and this movie proves it magically.

******
4 October 2005
10
First of all i enjoyed this film immensely. It was well shot, highly
emotive and contained two great lead performances, but the fact remains
that this movie is perhaps too overrated in the grand scheme of cinema.It must not be forgotten that this film is an adaptation of a short
story and as such the narrative requires a little more depth. One
should also take into account the film's cult status as a sleeper hit
(which never the less underlines its definite quality) as reason to be
cynical over its actual significance in American popular cinema.However, the film is undoubtedly one of the finest examples of the
prison genre, certainly ranking alongside the likes of Cool Hand Luke.
The relationship of the main protagonists is perhaps one of the reasons
for this as is the movies themes and contextual references. As a result
this is a fine picture which inspires its audience to question justice
and honour in a non too clichéd way.

******
27 September 2005
10
In every way, this film is an affirmation of faith; not simply
religious faith, but faith of any kind. In no other way has a film of
such simple storytelling been so well received nor powerful. At the
same time, there is a measure of realism here not seen many other
highly-praised movies. The Godfather, The Return of the King, The Seven Samurai; all
incredible movies, but the one flaw residing over all three is this: In
very little ways are the protagonists in these true-to-life. A Mafia
Don, a would-be King, warriors of old - they are larger than life; they
have a quality to them that raises them above all others - and the
films, thus, retain a quality in the realm of the fantastic that sully
the realism they wish to portray.The Shawshank Redemption is not in the like. Not one of the characters
could be called "larger than life;" in no way are any of the characters
"good" or "evil" - the boundary is so grayed that it no longer exists;
they're simply human, with sins, hopes, loves, and fears. In a way no
other film has ever been able to, Shawshank perfectly reflects a story
of humanity and hope. It comes to be that we do not begin to see these
people as characters, but begin to think as they do, to become them.If you really want to see a film of limitless power and beauty, a film
that you truly become delved into, with characters that you feel
perfect sympathy and empathy towards, The Shawshank Redemption is it.

******
5 September 2005
10
It took me 10 years to see this movie; I dated a guy who constantly
talked about it 7 years ago; but I never did see it. I am not into
prison movies; so I kept telling him I didn't want to see it. Whenever
it came on television, I would go into another room and watch something
else. I just thought he liked it because he has been in prison before;
and it reminded him of being in there or something (silly me).But, this Labor Day Weekend (2005); when it came on again; I decided to
sit down and just look at it for the first time. Well; was I pleasantly
surprised and glad that I did finally see it. Great plot, good
direction, characters that had some depth and the surprise ending too
boot. Also, just to be able to see Morgan Freeman act is a treat me for
anyway; he is such a great actor. He finally won the Academy Award that
he so richly deserved all of these years for Million Dollar Baby. He
got robbed of the Academy Award for "Driving Ms. Daisy" and for "Lean
on Me"; but he finally got what was due him.I also liked Tim Robbins portrayal of his character, as he was quiet,
and smart. You know, being quiet sometimes can help a person get
through many difficult ordeals in their life. Folks have a tendency to
ignore you and don't pay much attention to you then. I learned how to
be quiet and not so loud all the time; thinking is better than talking
in certain situations.Before I saw this move, I was not being treated well at work by my
boss, and struggling with how to handle it. Seeing this movie actually
helped me to do something positive about it. My boss and my job will
never be the same.Andy was right; we need to get along with the business of living or the
business of dying; and living is much better.P.S. I broke up with the guy I was dating 7 years ago; he was a jerk.Sanctified Minister Chicago, IL

******
4 September 2005
10
Like many of the reviewers, I hate prison movies with all the clichés
and stereotypes of innocent prisoners, nasty guards, and evil wardens;
and upon first viewing, many years ago, I especially disliked being
forced by this film to feel sympathy and empathy with murderers,
rapists and the like.Shawshank has somehow transcended the test of time; and I believe that
it has endured, not because of the great performances (which don't seem
to be acting at all, but real), not because of the simple, but
multi-level, story line with its twists and turns, not because of its
magnificent photography, not because of its score, and not because of
any individual element that went into the making of this film. (Hence,
the lack of academy awards.) However, when all those elements are
combined, Shawshank becomes one of those masterpieces which is greater
than the sum of its parts...and this film is so much greater that in
the desperation of its characters, it invokes a multitude of good
emotions in the viewer...that there is divine, poetic justice and hope
in this hell of a world.Shawshank has become my favorite film of all time, but it took a while.
"When your're feeling down and out, watch Shawshank!" Raising my vote
from 8/10 to 10/10 (however subjective that vote may be.)

******
2 September 2005
10
Maybe the best American movie of the 90's. No Oscar for this picture.
Maybe too much good to win any prize. Frank Darabont's masterpiece is a
perfect example of classical movie: without pretentious direction,
without f/x, without a great budget... "Only" a wonderful story, a
brilliant soundtrack (Thomas Newman already existed before American
Beauty), a message about hope, and two monsters of the acting: Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins, Red and Andy Dufresne. I didn't think a film
based on a Stephen King book could be so fascinating, so sensitive, so
wonderful.Enough to stay in your mind forever, and enough to cheer you up
whenever you feel down.Rating: 10/10

******
19 August 2005
8
When you get two life sentences, maybe you are in total despair
especially you are innocent. But the banker Andy was not. He still had
a hope for his future. He thought every possible way to get out of the
prison. When the hope that recovered his innocence openly broke out, he
decided to escape from the prison with his way. He was quite a smart
person. Even his friend Red did not know his escape plan. He did it. So
Red too. Their reunion at the beach was the warmest scene in the movie.Although the movie got many academy nominees, it got nothing in the
end. However it won the heart of people. I think that its positive
connotation is enough to move every one. That is why it is still so
popular after 11 years. We should not abandon hope at any circumstance.
Without hope, without future.Tim Robbins convincingly played the sympathizing banker. His another
impressive movie was The player. Morgan Freeman should have won the
academy award. If that happened, he did not have to wait 11 years to
get the award (best supporting actor for Million dollar baby).A movie can bring you hope. 8/10

******
17 August 2005
8
The first time I saw the movie I was crazy about it .I did not want to
speak to anyone nor do anything .I wanted to rise my arms and cry
---yes, just like what Andy did .It really inspires me greatly .I believe it is a terrific film because it includes all things a film
should have. The plot , the characters,the director,the spirits are all
top.So I want to see it for another time .Then I find out that I don't like the oaks which stands for power and
strength .Why can't the letter just between two brisks. It's obvious
the director wanna tell us something in a obvious way. But it's not
serious,this is quite personal. I still know what I can get from this
movie. The more I see it ,the more I get .I know Andy deserves the happy ending ,will he succeed in the real
world?

******
24 July 2005
10
This was the first movie that I remember as a little kid. When I saw
it, i was captivated by the perfect acting of Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman. I thought all the prisoners were actually prisoners serving
life sentences. It was the first Steven King movie I've ever seen, and
it gave me the wrong impression about his type of movies.The movie is about Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is convicted of
murdering his wife and the man she was having an affair with. Andy is
sent to jail were he tries to survive a new life behind bars. The movie
shows his struggles with the inmates and prison officials. His closest
friend being Red (Morgan Freeman) also shares those same struggles as
Andy. And the movie has the most powerful ending of any movie I've ever
seen.I can say that everyone that has seen this movie truly loves it for
every aspect of it. The Acting, directing, and writing, etc.

******
22 July 2005
10
The Shawshank redemption is the first Frank Darabont's movie which has
taken 7 Oscar-nominations from the Academy but the film not yielded a
high profit.Why not? Well,the story of this movie is too good to be
true.The Shawshank redemption is based on the book by Stephen King and
certainly this is the most brilliant adaptation which has ever based
from the writer'novels. The playtime is rather long but seems to be not
boring.It's excellently produced,and the acting(Tim Robbins and
especially Morgan Freeman)is marvellous.The script is clever enough
about the human's relationships and the escape from the prison.The
characters and the story itself are clearly true.

******
19 July 2005
10
For quite some time, I've been hearing how good The Shawshank
Redemption is. But Unfortunately, I never got the chance to see it.
After seeing it last week, I can safely say that the movie lives to the
hype, it even exceeds it.The Shawshank Redemption tells the story of Andy Dufresne ( Tim Robbins
), a hotshot banker who's convicted of murdering his wife and his
lover, and who's sent to jail. In the prison, Andy meets Red ( Morgan
Freeman ), a " man who knows how to get things ". And a friendship
begins between them.There are many great aspects about the movie. I'll begin with the most
obvious one, the uplifting tone. When The Shawshank Redemption ended, I
was so happy I cried happy tears, I was never happier after watching a
movie.The story of the movie is so simple, yet it's very touching and
effective. We spend almost half the movie watching 2 men ( Andy & Red
), talking and walking in the prison yard. Slowly we get to know them
better, and in the meantime absolutely fall in love with them. I think
friendship was never portrayed better in movies.One of the best things about the movie is the acting. Morgan Freeman
was never better in my opinion, Tim Robbins gave a very good
performance, but I think he was better in The Player, and the
supporting cast ( Bob Gunton, William Sadler, and Gil Bellows ) was
pretty good too.Frank Darabont's directing is flawless. He was able to make us believe
we're watching a real prison, helped in that by the great
cinematography. He excelled in creating the right mood for both the
uplifting scenes ( the opera scene, the library scenes ) and the
depressing scenes ( the scenes with Brooks, and the rape scene ). It
seems Darabont is at his best when he's making movies set in prisons,
as evidenced by The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile. When he
tried to change that in The Majestic, the results were so-so.So, I definitely recommend watching The Shawshank Redemption, if you
haven't watched it already. This is truly one of the best movies ever
made.

******
29 June 2005
10
A Man by the name of Andy Dufrense (Oscar-Winner:Tim Robbins) in his
mid-thirties, a intelligent banker is been convicted of murder his
ex-wife and her lover. Andy is sent to Maine's Shawshank State Prison
for Life. A lifer by the name of "Red" Redding (Oscar-Winner:Morgan
Freeman), who knows the ropes in prison. Andy's does earns Red's
Friendship. Andy brings hope and change for the prison. Andy is full of
surprised and he knows his way to save the best for last.Written and Directed by Frank Darabont (The Green Mile, The Majestic,
The Mist) captures the triumph of the human spirit as memorably in this
Instant Classic. This film was never capture in theaters back in 1994.
The movie did earn Seven Academy Awards Nominations including:Best
Picture, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Music Score, Best
Cinematography, Best Editing and Best Actor for Morgan Freeman. Robbins
and Freemin bring a rich, moving performances in the film.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.78:1) and an clear Digitally
Remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD Extras are only a few:
Theatrical Trailer, Still Gallery & Awards for the film­. Do not miss
this dark, touching and wonderful film that become a Cult Hit in Video
and a Television Favorite. Based on a Short Story by Stephen King "Rita
Rayworth and Shanshawk Redemption".The latest two disc set. DVD has an strong anamorphic Widescreen
(1.78:1) transfer and an good-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. Disc 1
includes an interesting running commentary track by the director and
the original theatrical trailer. Disc 2 includes an 30 minute
featurette with the cast & crew, an fascinating documentary discuss the
cult phenomenon of the movie, Charlie Rose documentary with the
director and actors:Robbins & Freeman. Disc 2 also includes an
hilarious parody of the film titled "The Sharktank Redemption" with
Morgan Freeman's Alfonso in the lead and more. Do not miss this
masterpiece, especially those who enjoy the work of Stephen King.
(*****/*****)

******
1 June 2005
10
Ordinarily, I would run a mile from a film like this. But this is a
film that has such a reputation, such a myth about it, that trying to
hate "The Shawshank Redemption" is like trying to slap a nun - you just
can't bring yourself to do it. It is incredibly powerful and emotive
stuff, despite the predictability of it all. My only concern was that
after so much had been said over the years that it might fail to live
up to my sky-high expectations. Forget about it - this is a film that
exceeds them. Imagine "Cool Hand Luke" but with a better ending. Yes,
this is that good.Tim Robbins excels as Andy Dufresne, a mild-mannered banker who is
jailed for the murder of his wife and her lover. Sentenced to two life
sentences in Shawshank Prison, he slowly develops a friendship with
fellow lifer Red (an outstanding Morgan Freeman). And despite the
efforts of the prison guards and fellow inmates, Andy refuses to lose
hope and soon, Andy's stay in Shawshank touches the lives of those who
live and work there forever.It's difficult to pin down exactly what makes "The Shawshank
Redemption" such an instant classic. Maybe it's the scene in the
warden's (Bob Gunton) office where Andy plays opera through the jail's
sound system to everybody. Maybe it's rebellious Sixties jailbird Tommy
(Gil Bellows) and his efforts to learn how to read as Andy teaches him.
Perhaps it's the way the guards turn from being aggressive to being
co-operative with Andy, who helps them fill out their tax return forms.
The simple truth is that in spite of the long winded story, you cannot
tear yourself away from the screen for a minute. Robbins and Freeman
are utterly captivating as the two men struggling with life behind
bars, both with very different approaches to how to never give up hope.
Rarely does a film engage the viewer in such a way as it does here -
after all, we're rooting for convicted murderers here - but you cannot
help but be caught up in the story. And towards the fabulous ending,
you begin to feel better about yourself - regardless of how hacked off
you are and I was when I threw the DVD in.Although Robbins and Freeman deliver an acting masterclass, the
supporting cast do a fantastic job. Bellows, Gunton, William Sadler (as
another lifer) and James Whitmore as the old librarian Brooks are all
superb. Gunton is especially brilliant, at times repulsive and
loathsome - a proper villain. The scenery is also top-quality - the
prison walls in dull greys and the world beyond the walls lit up in
glorious summery yellows and greens. I really cannot praise this film
enough! Director Frank Darabont will never produce a better film than
this, which is by a country mile the best Steven King adaptation to hit
screens. In fact, what are you still doing here reading this? Grab a
fist full of notes, go into town and buy yourself a copy now. This
instant. Don't worry about me, I won't mind!

******
15 May 2005
10
I can't believe I waited 11 years to see this film. I often saw
commercials advertising the film on TNT, but never had enough interest
to sit and watch until I bought the movie for my fiancée. I'm so glad I
finally got to see this film. This is easily one of the greatest films
of all time. I couldn't believe the outstanding job done by all of the
actors. I've seen very few scripts on the level of this one, but have
never seen so many strong performances from the entire cast.Morgan Freeman is incredible as Red and narrates the action better than
any other voice-over I've ever heard. I was very surprised with Tim
Robbins. For some reason I still thought of him as Nuke Laloosh and
never dreamed he had this kind of acting ability. The story is
incredible and the dialogue keeps the entire film rolling. Two and a
half hours go by like nothing. I also have to applaud William Sadler,
who showed great versatility (watch Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey or Die
Hard 2 to see what I mean). The film is intriguing as well as inspiring
at the same time. I found myself inwardly cheering for Andy to escape
from Shawshank and was even happy when he is shown emerging from the
sewer tunnel. His reunion with Red is almost tearjerking. The movie
managed to have a happy ending without it seeming to be another
unrealistic Hollywood Ending.This film is definitely a must-see. I have seen Braveheart, and though
I thought it was fantastic it doesn't come anywhere near the power of
Shawshank Redemption. I doubt another cast ensemble of incredible
acting talent will ever match this one. Easily a 10 on the IMDb.com
scale.

******
16 April 2005
10
This movie can not come recommended highly enough, the fact that it is
constantly near to, or at the top of the Internet Movie Database's top
250 poll, is surely testament to this.This is definitely one of my favourite movies of all time. If you are
reading these comments, and have not seen this life changing movie (for
both the film's characters AND the viewer), i truly envy you.It is one of the few movies that I would wish that I have never seen,
purely so I could have the pleasure of seeing it again for the first
time and re-living how i felt after the credits rolled. It really is
that good.

******
13 April 2005
10
The first time i read about this movie, I was sure that this movie is
overrated, But after seeing him, I am sure that this movie is
underrated It is the best movie ever. It is about hope, passion, love
and friendship. I do not think that Hollywood can produce an other
movie like that, it one in century. The acting was GENIUS, The script
was the best ever, The director was a maestro. A lot of Novel-Moivis
not good as the novel, I did not read Stephen King's Novel, but I am
sure that the movie is much better. believe me if you saw the movie you
will not be able to forget it. Believe me when I say that you will not
able to talk after seeing the movie at least for 20 minutes, and the
first thing you will say 'Why this sons of bitches did not give it Best
Motion Picture'. Well Forrest Gump won it - and I love this movie- but
believe they do not deserve it. See the movie, I am sure that this will
change your view to the future, to the hope, and to the friendship.

******
12 April 2005
10
This is the greatest film ever made ..... bar none! It has everything
you could ever want in a film and more! The story is quite different to
the short story by Stephen King but thats not necessarily a bad thing
as the Green Mile followed the book closely and wasn't nearly as good
as this! It says if you can to think of a film to compare it to but its
in a genre all of its own. Other good prison films I could suggest are
"Against the Wall" and "Killer: A Journal of Murder". Both of these are
good but lack the depth of characters portrayed in Shawshank. For a
good prison televisual drama then "Oz" has to be the best thing to come
out of America after the Simpsons, it has the characters and plots to
match Shawshank but generally without the feel good factor thrown in.

******
28 March 2005
10
This film gave me a great feeling at the end. My mother thought it
wouldn't be my typical everyday action movie, I saw the recommendations
and had a look at it. I was amazed, and so was my mum. At the end I saw
her on the edge of her seat yelling at Morgan Freeman to do what Tim
Robbins had said.I recommend this movie very much. It is a sad, funny at times and it is
most importantly, Heart warming. For those of you that haven't seen it
I tell you now, this is the best movie of the Nineties.Just another thing, I saw Forrest Gump and that was not as good as
this. The Shawshank Redemption should have won the Oscars!

******
14 January 2005
10
I look at many of the contenders that would be the most marvellous
movies ever made and can only be more reassured of this film's true
status as the absolute pinnacle of what Hollywood has tried to portray
over the past century. This film (as many greats), was originally
ignored by critics even shunned.So we should ask what actually makes a good film..., what makes the
perfect movie???? Well, the answer in three words is .... 'The
Shawshank Redemption'. This film was originally put down because it was
not the best filmed or best acted etc., but overall it is better than
'ANYTHING' ever before and the benchmark for all that followed. I can't
imagine a movie lover who would dismiss any notion that his or her life
was made slightly better by this film (YES REALLY IT IS THAT GOOD).The Godfather films even The lord of the rings are enormous cinematic
triumphs, but for me the measure of a film is in how it tells a story,
and how it leaves you feeling at the end. I can't imagine any narcotic
that could rouse you in the same way as this would should you be
viewing for the first time.A simple story of a middle class young man, imprisoned for killing his
wife in an unforgiving fortress, left with nothing but his intelligence
and his strength of heart. Through his relationships with his inmates,
and his ability to survive we walk every step with Andy until we
finally witness the genius of ..... "The Shawshank Redemption" If you
haven't seen this you are so unbelievably lucky to be able to
experience it for the first time.The best and most 'need to see' film ever made.11/10

******
10 December 2004
10
This movie became my favorite movie of all time, before i had even seen
the whole thing. Has this happened to anyone else? I had seen parts on
TV and that was it. The day i finally rented it, i was practically
jittery with excitement. This just tells you about my unique subjective
experience with it. After it was over, I wasn't dissatisfied in the
least. It is truly a great film all around. It is one of those things
where part of me wants everyone in the world to see it, but another
part of me feels like my personal experience with it makes it my own. I
don't want to write an extensive review and put it under some kind of
lens and analyze it. I'll just say that from that day forward, The
Shawshank Redemption had profoundly affected the way I view movies and
it his been the gateway into my current passion for films.

******
4 October 2004
10

I struggle to find how people hate this film, it's their opinion and
that's fair enough but I can't help but think they hate this film
because of it's great reputation!It probably is the greatest movie of all time. From the screenplay to
the direction to the cast right to the Special Edition DVD cover art
this film is genius!So sad that it was overshadowed by two other films that year! I believe
it must have been Forrest Gump at the Oscars and Pulp Fiction to the
cool dudes! I think if someone can boast seeing Shawshank at the cinema
deserves a medal!!!Frank Darabont, Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman deserve all the praise
they've received since and they've gone on to great careers.I don't need to go on about the story etc because the majority know how
good the film is.If you haven't watched it where have you been?


******
25 September 2004
10

In our culture today, action films have become the (unfortunate)
standard. The Shawshank Redemption defies that standard to the last
moment. Not an action scene to be seen, yet it still holds just about
any audience captive (excuse the pun). With a great deal of (at times, preachy but) never dull dialogue,
excellent characters, remarkable situations and one of the finest, most
dramatic scores ever written, this film manages to inspire and uplift
just about any viewer.Personally, next to the "The Godfather", this is the perfect film. Some
could even justify it as the most perfect film of all time, and I would
be unable to argue that even, for I fail to see it becoming dated or
irrelevant. And on a closing note, Frank Darabont is the genius behind this
screenplay (which was, of course based on a Stephen King short). But
Mr. Darabont is also one of the writers behind the far inferior sequel
to "The Fly", known as "The Fly II" and "Nightmare On Elm Street III".
So, I guess if he can bring to life this film, anyone who believes in
their project enough could also have a shot.


******
29 August 2004
7
I know that other people's votes shouldn't influence mine, either
way--but geez, No.2 of all time? What are the IMDb demographics that
create that overblown result?I thought this was a very entertaining movie, somewhere around 8
points. But the script is kind of sugary and the characters lack the
subtlety you would expect in a truly great drama. The ending reminded
me of The Great Escape.There are several good performances that aren't quite able to shake
loose the limitations of the script and become stirring.Cute, but not the greatest prison drama ever. I think there must be a
lot of teenagers voting on IMDb.

******
10 August 2004
10
On the outside, Frank Darabont's directorial piece de resistance does
not look promising: Scripts purloined from little-known Stephen King
novellas, hacked up and padded with sentimental Hollywood schmaltz do
not tend to yield cinematic gold. King, a master of unnerving,
psychological drama would never be so trite as to tag one of his
stories with a vague, syrupy axiom like 'Fear can hold you prisoner.
Hope can set you free.'  that kind of corny meddling smacks of the ad
men tugging mercilessly at the heart strings, ripping the freshness and
originality out of every project they come across. I am also
immediately wary of prison melodramas (especially those with the word
'redemption' in the title)  they are all so predictable.These were my thoughts as I first contemplated watching The Shawshank
Redemption almost a decade ago. Then there was nothing like the hype
and fervour that surround the movie now. I had only the rapturous,
breathless testimony of a friend of mine to go on, and he was something
of a philistine when it came to the pictures (I believe his previous
favourite film was Robin Hood Prince of Thieves, so you can forgive my
scepticism).Still I did some research before going in: Yup, thought so: Idealistic
young man, banged up for a crime he didn't commit  I'll bet he soon
bears the brunt of some pent-up sexual aggression from his misanthropic
fellow inmates. What's that? He befriends an institutionalised black
guy played by Morgan Freeman? I would imagine he'll be providing a wise
voice-over throughout, perhaps whimsically tinged with an ingenuous
Southern drawl. And the Warden: He'll be a stern, God-fearing fellow
with steel-rimmed spectacles and a shady secret.I went along and watched it anyway of course (my social diary as a
teenager was hardly cram-full) and as I sat, I soon realized I was
right on all counts. But still I watched. Past the grim depictions of
new recruits being raped and beaten by both guard and lag; past the
scene on the roof with the insurance advice and the ice-cold beers;
past the bittersweet tale of Brooksy's freedom and Tommy Williams'
fateful revelations. I watched through the ever-changing posters on
Andy Dufresne's wall, and at the end I, like everybody else in the
cinema emerged blinking, dry-of-mouth and my heart soaring.Teenagers aren't supposed to be awash with optimism and joy. They
slouch and scowl and lock themselves in their rooms with the stereo on
full blast, but, despite myself, I couldn't take the big soppy grin off
my face or shake the shiver from my spine. After watching The Shawshank
Redemption, I smiled so hard my cheeks ached.Because what cynical young sods like me didn't realize was that some
films are formulaic for a reason. You cannot reinvent the wheel every
time. What I also learnt was that redemption (when it is done right)
can be the most moving and satisfying cinematic theme of them all.
Shawshank excels in its simplicity. It is by no means the only great
prison drama: Cool Hand Luke oozes, well cool, but the young Paul
Newman was such a screen god that the film ends up being more of a
slavish homage. Other prison revenge flicks (Murder in the First and
Sleepers spring to mind) are more obsessed with action or courtroom
finger pointing than any thoughtful resolution and the protagonists are
bitter and angry. Not here. The characterisation is crisp yet understated. Tim Robbins'
Dufresne draws empathy and respect in equal measure, while Freeman's
Red has an extraordinary dignity. When we meet him, he has served 20
years for a murder he committed as a kid and any angst and aggression
has gradually ebbed away. Now he is revered as 'a man who can get
things.' Inside his ability to procure contraband has made him
influential  much more so than he ever was as a free man  but instead
of using it to bully and menace his fellow cons, he sits back in quiet
reflection. This is Red's redemption.Dufresne meanwhile has a grander plan and it comes to fruition in the
most splendid fashion. Unusually, we see it all through Red's eyes and
that leaves us as wide-eyed and incredulous as the warden after he
throws the pebble through Raquel Welsh's midriff. I am not usually in favour of the retrospective voice-over. It is a
lazy, mawkish device that is all to often used to paper over plot holes
or lack of imagination. This one is different. I suppose it is all in
the voice and Freeman sounds like he has been gargling with a heady
mixture of rich New England soil and spitting whiskey. It is quiet but
wholly convincing  much more so than his subsequent authoritative
Presidential ramblings in Deep Impact. The language he uses is easy and
uncomplicated but breathtakingly effective:'His first night in the joint, Andy Dufresne cost me two packs of
cigarettes. He never made a sound,' he says when the new convict
refuses to buckle, wryly encapsulating the intricacies of a friendship
based on a mutual respect and true affection.Who will ever forget Red as an old man 'so excited I can hardly sit
still or hold a thought in my head' as he shuffles along the stone wall
in the cornfield towards the big oak tree and Andy's hidden treasure 
a true moment of silver screen magic. 'Get busy livin', or get busy
dyin',' is the final maxim, and by that stage, no matter how cold or
hard-nosed you purport to be, I defy you not to have a lump in your
throat. Maybe for once the ad men got it right.10/10

******
6 August 2004
10

So everybody in the world thinks I am insane for having never seen "The
Shawshank Redemption", so I finally broke down and rented it the other day.
What I thought was going to be a really good film turns out to be nothing
but a bunch of hoop-la sandwiched in-between opening and closing credits
amounting to nothing. What a snooze fest this turned out to be. I was bored
almost 90% of the movie and have decided to make a list of things I would
have rather spent the two hours of my life doing instead of torturing myself
with what I consider to be one of the worst 5 movies ever made (don't get me
started on Pulp Fiction).1. Wash dishes2. Let a burning candle drip wax on my arm3. Drive 60 miles and turn around and drive back without
stopping4. Practice getting my tetris score just a bit higher5. Count silently in my head to 10,0006. Beat King's Quest I againThere are countless other things I would rather do that watch this horrible
movie again, but I think you get the point. Do not believe the hype
surrounding this movie because you will just end up hurt and bitter like I
did. 

******
28 July 2004
9

If you haven`t seen this film, watch it as soon as you can. Maybe you`ve had
the chance to do it, but just skipped it because you thought it was one more
story in prison. Yes and no! YES because most part of "Shawshank Redemption"
happens in a prison, but NO, it's not like the others. It's much better.The story, you may know more of it in the Plot Outline, is really
interesting and the performances are just impossible to forget. There is a
little of everything: drama, friendship, violence, love and dream..."Dream
of Freedom". That's the title in Portuguese.My Rate 9/10
   

******
27 July 2004
10

yes this movie is one of the greatestThis movie changed my thinking about people who go to prison. I believe
that everyone deserves a second chance no matter what it is. They need
to be given a chance to change themselves. Morgan Freeman did justice
to his role i was really touched at the end part when he's there for
the parole and the words that came out of his mouth. Tim Robbins was
tremendous, its the first time i noticed him as an actor and he's one
of the best.prison is terrible place to be its like a whole new world and my
perspective has changed about that. I rate this movie 10/10 its the
best, the story is great and the director does a great job. well done


******
14 July 2004
10

Some truths not much but a few are accepted by nearly every people. You
may not love Lord of the Rings, Star Wars,Braveheart, Love stories,
Grease or any big movie but YOU LOVE THIS. LOOK in IMDb it is in the
second place but look how many people voted, more than 120000 voted so
this is the secret first movie. It stimulates your neurons, something
changes inside you. White, black, yellow, American, European, African
all people meet in some ways. THE BIGGEST EXAMPLE IS SHAWSHANK
REDEMPTION, everyone likes it -few exceptions. I sometimes think that
we are all humans that are created in a way that we love this movie (or
Darabont-director is not human so he made the movie for us to love
it)Go talk to others ask about films then ASK ABOUT SHAWSHANK and see
the change on their features then catch the smile of people when you
talk about SHAWSHANK.Some truths not much but a few are accepted by
nearly every people (beginning as finish) (finish as beginning)


******
9 July 2004
10

This Is My Absolute Favorite Movie Of All Time. When This Movie First
Came Out In Theaters, I was still in Middle School And Thought That It
Looked Pretty Stupid, Boy was I WRONG! Some Of the Best Performances
I've Ever Seen Given In A Movie, Heart Wrenching Emotion, And Most Of
All Hope. No Matter What Never Give Up Hope. This Movie Changed My
Life. Before I Saw This Movie I Was A Troublemaker Who Did Poorly In
School. After I saw This Movie I Tried Harder To Be A Better Person, A
Person Who Always Did My Best. I Believe This Movie Has Helped Me Get
To Where I Am, A Happy, Hard Working, Hopeful Person, & That Is Perhaps
The Best Of Things. I Would Appreciate Any Feed Back From People Who
Appreciate This Film As Much As I Do.


******
16 May 2004
9

I can understand why this film is loved so much, but I can equally
understand, although I do not agree, why it is despised. People say it
is life affirming, brings hope and happiness, and it does, others say
it is sentimental crap, and at times it is. But I've always been a
sucker for sentimental movies, ones which have the power to genuinely
move the viewer, and not hide under a cheap plot and a tragic death.
Being another King adaptation, there is violence, and hardness to
counteract the sentimentality, and the prison, although not as
horrifying as those seen in Midnight Express and other movies, breaks
the human soul to the point that it relies on the prison for survival.
Heartbreaking, tear jerking, brutally funny, all phrases used
repeatedly to describe this film, all appropriate. A film everyone
should love. Great Quotes: Andy. 'I have to remind myself that some
birds aren't meant to be caged' 9 out of 10


******
9 March 2004
10

I was amazed, encaptured and enthralled when I saw this film for the first
time. I was flicking idly through the television one night when I caught
the
opening titles just as I was about to go to bed, and thought I'd give it a
try. What can I say? 3 hours later I was almost in tears over the ending,
but I'll say no more.It's obvious the film has overwhelming themes of hope, friendship,
redemption ad freedom, but it is the hope that so suffuses the film and
lifts it above other "triumphing over adversity" films. It is a film that
does not try to justify any governmental or judicial system, or the skill
of
a lawyer, but simply the hope and compassion that is part of the tarnished
human spirit.I bought this film on DVD recently, replacing my rather elderly tape, and
it
cost me the grand total of £3 (about $5 or so) and, pound for pound, it's
the best value for money I've ever spent on anything. If only all DVD's
were
this good and this cheap.

******
9 February 2004
10

Well... this is the cat out of the bag. Pandora's box opening. Why did I
ever find a critique site. I'm one of the most opinionated stubborn
sh...uhh
so and so's.... in the world.So I guess first and foremost did I like it. No!..........Just kidding.
How
can you fail to? Its my favourite movie of all time. It has just occurred
to
me that this may be my first ever sober critique of the film. It's one of
those movies confined to the small, smokey, pokey corners of a pub when
the
issue of greatest film of all time comes up. There's always a 'goodfellas'
and a 'Godfather trilogy' and an 'Empire Strikes back' 'Labyrinyth' (?)
Voice in the crowd ,(I mix in strange circles) But its fairly unanimous,
everyone likes this film. So why?Where do I start. Morgan Freeman...Goes without saying. Tim Robbins...Not
sure anyone else could play Dufresne now. Bob Gunton....Born to play evil.
William sadler...Under-rated.But it's not really the actors or the Director/photography etc. It's the
script. Beautifully constructed. It flows like liquid perfection. Morgan
Freeman's VO helps no end. (Brad Pitt described it in 'Se7en' commentry as
the voice of god).I had the fortune to watch this before the hype. I got it out on video the
day it came out cause I was a fan of Morgan Freeman. I sat there in
silence
for fifteen minutes after the final credit had scrolled past my screen.
It's
that good. Breathtaking. (spoiler) When Red wanders across that beach and
we
see Dufresne there, and the camera slowly pans upwards and away, you know
you've been part of something special. I'm not a fan of sickly sweet
'hollywoodised' endings but every now and then they get it
right.I should stop now cause I could go on for ever. (The 'record' scene,
Brook's
parole, the 'beers on the roof', the 'poster', the 'salvation comes from
within' rock hammer).I better stop there. Need to take a tablet. See thats why they shouldn't
make movies this good.Yeah I quite liked it then.Don't mind and comments/critique/feedback. The e-mails
there.

******
27 December 2003
7

This film offers pretty visuals, good-acting and an interesting
screenplay.But it´s a movie very overrated among IMDB users, who put it at the 2th
place on best movies list.The explanation is simple the old "fight for your dreams", "never give up"
motive, which thrills and delight audiences.SPOILERS AHEAD
For me, the movie doesn´t work in this way. At the end, the protagonist is
old, he had been raped, bitten, etc. The final doesn´t work for me in a
full
happy end, the main time of his life has already gone!

******
24 December 2003
10

I first saw SR in america when i was 12. I walked in on the tariing scene
and had to stay up untill two in the morning to finish watching it. I was
hooked!
When i came back to england i rushed out and bought the Video in order to
see the beginning part. it is such a great movie. i have seen the movie
about 250 times since then and have read the short story about 100 times.
it
is so good! if you haven't seen it yet, make sure you do. You are missing
out on one of the greatest cinematic treats in history!

******
17 November 2003
10

This film is based on one of my favourite Stephen King novels (albeit a
'novella') The original book contained four long 'short stories' one which
became 'Stand By Me' (another great movie) and 'Rita Heyworth & The
Shawshank Redemption' which has been (full marks to the director& production
team)lovingly rendered into a true cinematic masterpiece. Staying true to
the printed word, it follows the prison life of Andy Dupree from sentence to
freedom with care and sympathy, never revelling in his hardships or flouting
his attempts at beating the system. The film concentrates on his will to
survive and his hope for eventual freedom. Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman were
born to play their respective parts in this film. If neither had ever made
another film, it would not matter because this film will always be their
mark in movie history. No major action sequences, no breathtaking special
effects and no outrageous subject matter. Just a great movie, based on a
great story, acted convincingly with great skill by two men who could really
be the best of friends the story requires them to be. Superb.

******
21 October 2003
10

I love this film so much,it is my all time favourite movie,and I really
dont
think any film will have such a profound effect on me.It almost inspires
you
to do almost anything,and the tagline alone has a mystic and philisophical
feel about it(Fear can hold you prisoner,Hope can set you free!).The great
thing about this film is that it can represent anything that has happend
in
your life,good or bad.I think that is what gives an edge to this film,of
which many films forget to include!It's quite funny to think that this
film
was a huge flop at the box office,and that it wasnt untill the film came
out
on VHS that it really got the world wide recognition that it so truly
deserved!Beautifully made,inspiring and an emotional ride of hope and
freedom!I absolutely love it,best film ever!!!!!!!!Stu.


******
1 August 2003
10

Wonderful touching story that will make you cry AND feel extremely good
inside. STEVEN KING proves that he is one of the best story writers
EVER.Superb acting by Freeman et al. Wonderful narrative, music, cinematorgraphy
and backward looking story that escalates throughout the
film.A work of genious, 
J

******
27 July 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption IMHO is truly the  greatest movies of all time.
It
is my personal favourite and I can not comprehend how anyone would not
like
this film. After seeing it, for nearly a dozen or so times, I can still
see
it with the same fervor and excitement. Not one moment of this movies is
dull or uninteresting.
The cast is brilliant, especially Tim Robbins as the wrongly accused Andy
Dufresne and Morgan Freeman as Red. Also, the greedy  and treacherous
warden
is wonderfully portrayed by Bob Gunton. The film sends a message about
hope
and the human spirit.
The movie has several subplots, which each have their own pace. Andy
making
friends with his inmates first and then the prison guards, his building of
the library, him tutoring Tommy, working for conniving Warden Norton,
escaping from prison and then Red getting out and going to find him, all
of
which never create a boring moment.
The best part of the movie is after when Andy escapes, and the story of
Red
untill he meets Andy. I also liked the part when Brooks gets out and  cant
seem to cope with the changed pace of life after being "institutionalised"
for nearly 40 years.
It is hope which keeps this movie alive. The hope that someday Andy will
get out, the hope that Red will see his friend once again really sends a
message of inspiration, to never lose hope. As Red truly says, "Get busy
livin', or get busy dying "!
The score by Thomas Neuman is also brilliant.
For those people who have not yet seen this movie, you should definitley
watch it whenever you get a chance. A true masterpiece. I cannot see how
this movie did not get Best Picture. Forrest Gump can not even be compared
to this film.

******
18 July 2003
8

I watched this movie today, and while it was good it certainly IS NOT the
#2
best Drama of all time.  I hope that more people will sign up for IMDB
after
seeing this and start to post your user ratings as I would give it a good
rating, but certianly not a 9.

******
20 April 2003
8

This is perhaps one of the best movies I have ever seen and no doubt the
best of Stephen King. Director Frank Darabont created a masterpiece.It is a very intelligent story telling us how hard prison life can
be.
It critics the judgements of innocent prisoners. But the most I liked is
that every time there is another interesting story that develops in this
prison. At the last third of the movie we can enjoy the big surprise or the
dessert. This novel is very nice told and it merits standing ovation. I and
my wife rarely see such films. This is quality of film making and today
where we are?   8.5/10.If you liked this don´t miss another masterpiece from the same director
called "THE GREEN MILE". 

******
13 July 2002
10

Reading through the comments by other contributors here, I begin to
realise
the reason why this movie features in so many all time top 10s - the film
means different things to different people.As straightforward prison drama it is head and shoulders above others of
its
type - an epic story told with sensitivity and emotion, superbly acted and
brilliantly shot. What makes what would have been a good film into a great
one is the subtexts and themes which run through it that allow the viewer
to
actually think.Personally, my more recent viewings of the movie have highlighted the
religious subtext - the way that Red is influenced to 'get busy livin'
(and
find his way to the Promised Land) as a result of meeting Andy, the
Crucifixion/Resurrection/Redemption metaphor of Andy's escape as he stands
with his arms wide letting the rain wash away everyone else's
sh*t/sins.To be honest, I hate it when people try to look too deeply into art and
identify supposed meaning of which the artist probably had no intention at
all. I might be way off with these religious musings but the fact that I
have been stirred to comment on them merely reinforces the power of this
movie in the way that it can move us.

******
2 July 2002
10

Although a long film, and for the most part not light hearted, I am able
to
watch "The Shawshank Redemption" again and again and to this day I can't
find fault with it. It was a brave film to make because if it hadn't been
made and acted so well, some parts could have been very tacky. One thing I
like about the film is the way in which it shows the convicts to be normal
people who have made mistakes, not monsters. It emphasised how everybody
deserves rights, even if they are in prison. It is an emotional
rollercoaster for me making my heart break or swell with happiness. That
sounds tacky, but it's not if you've seen the film.

******
27 July 2001
8

MINOR SPOILERS AHEADThe Shawshank Redemption is a rare film that pulls off something no other
sappy movie is capable of: it manages to touch me effectively.  I was
absolutely enthralled by the story of Andy (Tim Robbins) who is wrongly
convicted for a double murder and spends twenty years in prison, making
friends with "Red" (Morgan Freeman) "the guy who can get things".  The
trials of his life in prison were effective and entertaining without
resorting to the unrelenting sap of modern sap loaded atrocities like Mel
Gibson's unbearable The Patriot.  The story is full of wonderful acting,
beautiful direction and a great story. A must see!   

******
12 May 2001
8

That such an excellent film could possibly derive from a short story by Rita
Hayworth before she was a mean gleam in anyone's eyes, rewritten here for
the screen by Stephen King, is in itself a surprise. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman turn in excellent performances, ably helped by a supporting cast of
fellow inmates and prison wardens which give the film a wholeness as against
a film with two stars and some other actors. I'm not one for physical
violence, but in this film the violence is limited and justified by the
story line, as this is inevitable in prisons at any moment. But the film is
much more  friendship and love, with its humourous moments.Photographed almost in a 50s style but with an obviously 90s mentality,
Roger Deakins not only fills the screen visually but also emotionally, an
extraordinary feat indeed. Thomas Newman caught that emotion well and his
accompanying music is very correct.
Morgan Freeman pleases me more and more each time I see him, though I still
feel that it is in `Driving Miss Daisy' where he gives his best performance.
He has wisely kept out of Sidney Poitier stereotyping, though it must be
said that times have changed and Poitier had to reflect social conditions of
his time and thus opened the way for excellent actors like Freeman and
Denzel Washington.
Frank Darabont has created a wonderful film  but number two best of all
time in the IMDb scale? Well, I can give it a high 8 out of ten, about the
same as the other Darabont/Stephen King film `The Green Mile', another
prison film, hard, harsh. You might like to try Susan Sarandon and Sean
Penn in Tim Robbins' film `Dead Man Walking' (also filmed by Roger Deakins)
which has a similarly powerful message, but without so much
violence.


******
31 August 2000
10

This was one of the best films of the 1990's and was all but snubbed by the
Academy.  It was nominated for seven Oscars in 1995 including best picture,
but it came up empty, trodden under by the Gump stampede.Frank Darabont's adaptation of Stephen King's short story was a thing of
beauty.  The story of an accountant who thinks his way out of a
maximum-security prison, and survives on sheer intelligence, guile and will
is expertly spun and engrossing.  The ending is uplifting and
exhilarating.Both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman gave career performances.  Robbins was
outstanding in the portrayal of a character whose phlegmatic and understated
persona belied his cunning and razor sharp intellect.  Freeman was also
fantastic as the old convict who knew how to get things done in the joint. 
Freeman's performance got him a Best Actor nomination in a year when Tom
Hanks was a cinch.  Everything about this film was superlative.  The direction, the
cinematography, the sound and the music were all top flight.  It is
difficult to comprehend how such an accomplished film was left with so
little acclaim.I rated this film a 10/10.  I highly recommend it, although viewers should
be advised that there is some disturbing prison violence.  Don't miss
it.

******
14 July 2000
6

Okay, i am obviously in the minority here, but i would not place this movie
even among my top 100. Nevertheless, the Shawshank Redemption is a good
movie and solid entertainment, filled with a compelling story, good actors
and an accurate script. But i honestly can not see why this movie is
appreciated so well; the cinematography is not that great and i have seen
many more emotionally involving/uplifting movies as well, just think of The
great dictator, The celebration (Festen), Leaving Las Vegas, etc.. 7/10  


******
16 November 1999
6

I can't help but feel emotional every time I see this film. Both Robbins and
Freeman are excellent, and the supporting cast is good enough not to screw
anything up, but they aren't spectacular. One of the few complaints I have about the film is that it does get slow at
times, and I find myself becoming a little bored. Another complaint I have
is I wish the makers of Shawshank would give credit where credit is due for
the amazing amount of scenes and ideas taken from Escape From Alcatraz,
starring Clint Eastwood. How can so many critics claim that Instinct is
derivative while none of them mention the fact that Shawshank Redemption is
one of the most derivative movies of all time? Shawshank is significantly
better than Alcatraz, and it does have important emotional elements that
Alcatraz is void of; but a theft is a theft, and that won't change unless
the makers of Shawshank start giving credit to Alcatraz. Here are some of
the things stolen: The digging tool being kept in a carved out bible and the somewhat funny
irony that that entails. The rapist encountering the star in the showers near the beginning of the
film to set up further encounters. An inmate at mealtime asking the star whether he will be eating something
and then pulling out a small animal. I'm sure most Shawshank lovers thought
that the whole bird thing was a completely original symbolic idea. Sorry,
but even though the symbolism is well taken, it was FAR from original. The
whole idea probably started with the mealtime animal scene, as it was
obviously a direct steal. The digging debris being emptied out of the star's pants during strolls.The star befriending the black guy who can get you anything. True, Red is a
much more important character in Shawshank, but considering how much was
stolen, this certainly was too. There are several others that I have forgotten, as I have not seen Escape
from Alcatraz in quite awhile. And if Instinct had any cliché's, Shawshank
certainly did, with the evil warden, the evil guard, the religion, the
"highly intelligent" star, and the concentration on the "hole", where the
star is always sent to burn for a while. Despite all of this, I really do like Shawshank Redemption and will probably
watch it many times in the future, but it absolutely amazes me that I have
not seen or heard one single critic mention the robbery here. And as people
became critic-following sheep with Instinct, they certainly did with
Shawshank. Jeremy Barger 
http://clubs.yahoo.com/clubs/firegodsmovieclub 


******
20 May 1999
10

I've read the novella from "Different Seasons," and feel that Frank
Darabont's screenplay was an excellent refinement of King's story.  It
pretty much sticks with the original plot while eliminating some portions
which didn't add much to the story as a whole.  The only part I wish they
would have included (that they didn't) was Red's tales of other breaks at
Shawshank Prison, if only for the novelty of them.
Regarding the movie alone, I thought the grand aerial views of the prison
combined with Thomas Newman's score (especially the 'Stoic Theme') were
quite wonderful, almost breathtaking in their scope and power.  I would
have
to say this is by far Tim Robbins' best role to date while it at least is
among Morgan Freeman's top three cinematic performances.
I have seen this movie several times, and although I'd say the first
viewing
is the best, I never tire of experiencing the story of Andy and Red, their
story of hope. 

******
18 May 1999
10

This is one of the best movies I've seen. I was never bored, or lost
interest, even though it's not an action movie. I'd recommend it for
anyone.
Proof that Stephen King doesn't just write horror.

******
13 May 1999
10

The Shawshank Redemption is a beautiful film about the power of
hope. Andy Dufrense (Tim Robbins) is one of those rare 
characters in American cinema that inspires one to live with
conviction, tenacity, and poetry. The relationship between he
and Red (Morgan Freeman) echoes the deep friendship found in the
Biblical story of Jonathan and David. Truly a film to watch
again and again. "Get busy living, or get busy dying."          


******
7 May 1999
10

Why do I think this movie so good? Because I find myself thinking about it
year after year, and I get more out of it each of the three times I've
seen
it. It works on several different levels.  First, the surface level, the
plot and it's surprising twists the first time I saw it. On a second
level,
are the themes of hope for Red and Andy, of how Red finally finds hope, of
how Andy secretly creates his own hope and escapes.On a deeper level, the movie is an allegoric tale for all human lives.  We
are all imprisoned for crimes we didn't commit, namely the prison of life
with it's ultimate death sentence for all of us. We all would love to be
redeemed from death, whether we are religious or spiritual, or not.
>
I can think of no other movie that satisfies on these different levels. I
see other comments here at IMDb about how other movies have better
cinematography, better directing, better acting, or comparing it to Cool
Hand Luke or other prison movies. Those comments miss the mark completely
because they are about the task of film making or superficial comparisons
of
plot devices.To me, great movies, like great literature, touch people's lives, change
our
view of the world, make us think about our place in the world. Does the
Godfather hit that mark? Star Wars? Cuckoo's Nest? No Way! Even
Schindler's
List or Saving Private Ryan, as wonderful as those movies are, don't hit
the
level of universal truth that Shawshank does, and does again, and again
and
again.


******
28 April 1999
10

What is so great about this movie? The question should be: "What is not so
great about it?" And the answer would be: "Nothing!"The story is good, and the outcome is not obvious but great. The acting is
superb all over the line. Tim Robbins is Andy Dufresne and we suffer and
feel joy with him.
Morgan Freeman is magnificent as Red, and when he is narrating it is like
chocolate to the ears. He has so
many great lines, most of which are quoted here, because they are worth
remembering, like this: "Prison
life consists of routine, and then more routine."
The music by Thomas Newman is fantastic. It soars over the movie giving it
the right mood, sad many times but it always fits in.
I have just seen this movie for the fifth time, and it keeps getting
better.
I'm looking forward to seeing it again, when some time has passed. I know
there will be something new to notice which is another reason why it is so
great.
I haven't talked to anyone that didn't like it,
and with the number one spot on IMDb's top 250 most people
must like/love this masterpiece. I haven't found any flaws in the history,
though you can find some errors on the
goof list. That Forest Gump ran off with the Oscar
that year seems unfair to me and obviously to a lot of other people
too.Why only the second best movie? My absolute favorite is and will always be
"The Good, the Bad and the Ugly."
I like This movie for some completely different reasons, like that I'm a
huge fan of Clint Eastwood, Sergio Leone and spaghetti western. But with
"The Shawshank Redemption" almost everyone I know agrees with me.I hope there will come more movies like this, I hope many more people will
see and enjoy this movie, I hope....

******
25 April 1999
10

It makes me wonder how people can bash this movie and then rate such
mediocre films above it.
One thing we have to remember - yes, it's rated #1.  Why? Because it is rare
to find a person out there who hated it. Thus, it makes sense that it is
ranked #1 - it has the highest AVERAGE RATING of all films voted upon here.I loved the movie.  And I didn't think that it was that hard to believe that
there are men in prison who regret their crimes - much less that there were
men in prison in the 60s that regretted their crimes.Incredible that people use this space to rip on the movie because of it's
number one status instead of giving it an honest review.
Love it or like it, Shawshank is a good movie.  

******
19 April 1999
10

The Shawshank Redemption is an absolutely terrific movie that shows why Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman are two of the finest actors alive today.  I
predict years from now Shawshank will be held up as a true American classic.
This is a flawless film.  My one regret is that I never saw this on the big
screen.  (I think the odd name 'Shawshank Redemption' and the fact that it
was a Stephen King story kept me away initially [thank goodness for cable
TV])  I urge anyone who reads this to please see this movie.  It is the best
film I have ever seen about life and hope.

******
18 April 1999
10

Wow!  This is a great film, one which surpasses anything I or anyone else
could ever say about it.  Truly one of the best films ever.

******
13 April 1999
10

This movie was a great adaptation of a great novella.  Unlike many other
movies made from books, this movie captured was almost an exact
match.A great commentary on how a person's environment can make them do strange
things.  I think Andy said something like "I wasn't a criminal until I got
to prison."Great movie! 

******
11 April 1999
10

Absolutely the best movie I have seen in my lifetime.  I'm a hardcore
action
fan, but I sat and watched this movie and never checked the time.  This
movie is compelling.  Tim Robbins gives a great performance nonetheless,
but
it is Morgan Freeman's character that adds such emotion to the movie.  I
always catch the movie on TNT and I watch it to the end.  The end is
fantastic, and it leaves me with tingles (if you know what I mean).
Morgan
Freeman's line "Get busy living, or get busy dying..." is one to remember.
He adds so much feeling to the movie, and the entire thing is flawless.
There isn't a line or scene out of place in the entire thing.  I sat there
thinking hard about the movie for a while, but then I got up and headed to
the nearest shop.  That movie was going to be my own.

******
18 March 1999
9

The Shawshank Redemption is a wonderful film. It is one of the best films of
1994. It is one of the better films of the 90's. It most certainly is not
one of the best films of all time, and in turn, obviously not the best of
all time. I respect those of you who have put it at number one. At least
it's better than calling Happy Gilmore number one, but I
digress.This is addressed to anyone who wonders how in all the world this film beat
The Godfather, Citizen Kane, 2001, and even Pulp Fiction for best film of
all time. Each of these films is celebrated, henceforth it is also "chic" to
bad-mouth these movies. People hear that Citizen Kane is great so often that
when someone sees it and is disappointed, they take it personally. Same with
Pulp Fiction, so many loved it, that when somebody didn't like it all that
much, their dislike becomes hate, relative to the passion some people have
for the film.Another prime example is Titanic. Where is it? It's not here on the Top 250.
Yet upon its release (and the subsequent months it was out) you almost
didn't hear a single negative word about it. Not until the people who were
so sick of the raves went, minds already made up to hate it. Some people are
so pretentious that they despise anything mainstream. Hence, the backlash
against Titanic.Now on to The Shawshank Redemption. The Shawshank Redemption is a film, like
Titanic, that I have never heard one uncynical person say a bad thing about.
Obviously then, its ratings will be high (well-deserved). However, also
working in Shawshank's favor is the fact that it has never gone mainstream.
The fact that it tanked at the box office may have been the best thing that
happened to it. It never has become cool to knock Shawshank, therefore we
rarely have people rating it 1 out of spite. With this lack of poor reviews,
it is no wonder Shawshank shot to the top. It is a marvelous little movie,
but certainly no Citizen Kane or 2001.

******
14 March 1999
10

For the longest time, since first seeing this movie in 1994, I never could
place my finger on WHY it has remained one of my all-time favorites.  At
first, and most obvious, was that it was a Stephen King screenplay, as I
love how Mr. King writes, not from the horror aspect but from the suspense
aspect.  This is a jail movie, and I have never really liked jail movies,
they just never interested me.  However, this film was much more than a jail
movie.  My growing interests in the visual and written arts, and continuing
study thereof has made me consciously aware of WHY this is one of my
all-time favorites.The Shawshank Redemption, you can even speculate from its
title,"Redemption", that there is a struggle with humanity going on here.
This film is largely based on the human condition, and the struggle for this
man, Andy, to not lose his humanity in his incarceration.Through a series of events, too much to elaborate on in this 1000 word limit
by IMDB, Andy overcomes the emotional and physical barriers of his
imprisonment to find his peace by means of a daring and well calculated in
years of preparation, plan which puts the warden and certain guards
in the hands of real justice finally.  All these characters in this film,
are so deep, that each one really deserves his own critical analysis.  This
is a must see movie, and not one you can watch once.  You have to watch it
several times to grasp what the writers have put forth.  It is truly one of
those films that comes along out of nowhere, and has a great impact but is
not recognized for what it really is.  As is all great art at the time, that
illustrates the struggle of humanity and the human condition.  Kudos to
Stephen King for this gift.

******
14 March 1999
10

I rented the Shawshank Redemption after reading many of the comments on this
very page, and I have to agree: this movie is absolutely brilliant: great
acting, great direction, great writing, and one of the most moving story
lines ever. I give it a 20 out of 10.

******
9 March 1999
10

This is an amazing movie.  The acting is incredible and the screenplay and
direction are amazing.  Extremely powerful and pretty depressing, it
actually has a pretty heartwarming kind of ending and the way everything
ties together at the end is simply brilliant.  You must see this movie,
definitely one of the better movies I've ever seen.

******
3 February 1999
10

This is a great movie. At first, when I heard that Stephen King was one of
the authors I didn't expect it to be this good, I don't enjoy horror movies
but later I understood that it wasn't a horror movie so I watched it and I
enjoyed every minute of it.
Excellent performances by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins.

******
21 January 1999
8

Proof, along with _Delores Claiborne_ and _Stand by Me_ that Stephen King
can spin a fine tale when he sets his mind to it. Even having read the book
(this is one case where the movie is better), Robbins and Freeman's
performances were so captivating that the ending still took me by surprise.
Definitely one of the best. 

******
19 January 1999
10

I run the risk of disappointing new viewers of this film by praising it as
one of my all time favorites. One should view this movie with little
preconception, and let it do its thing in its own time and
way.
People critique it for being slow paced, but time plays such an important
part of this film--the pacing is hardly accidental.
This is one of those films that is hard to fault for technique or failure to
convey intent. About the only way you can object is if you don't agree with
its outlook on life.
I too, am surprised at how many of my friends and family list this as one of
their top films--independent/prior to any cajoling on my part! I'm eagerly
anticipating the DVD release of this film--I've purposely kept from watching
my VHS copy any more so that I can experience the movie and its wonderful
score all over again on DVD.

******
17 January 1999
10

This film is a masterpiece. It manages to wrench the viewer through every
emotion possible. With Morgan Freeman's ardent narration and Tim Robbins'
masterful expressions, Director Frank Darabont has taken a short description
by Stephen King and crafted it into something that deserves to be seen by
everyone. 

******
7 January 1999
10

Stephen King's stories usually do not translate well to movies (Carrie, The
Running Man), but occasionally, a King story is done right (Shining, Stand
By Me).  This movie is probably the best of the group.  It's a brilliant
story matched with a brilliant screenplay.  The cast was great from the
professionals (Robbins, Freeman) to the relatively unknown actors.  This
movie is about a man's will to survive even when his future looks the
darkest.  One of my all time favorite movies.

******
24 December 1998
10

quite simply, the shawshank redemption is my absolute, long-standing,
favourite film, and i know it always will be.  it is a timeless masterpiece
that transcends genres, a film that can appeal to everyone with its simple
message - hope is important.

******
10 December 1998
10

One of the most beautiful movies I ever seen. Everyone has to see
it.

******
4 December 1998
10

This survey proves that the American Film Institute's "Top 100" and
Hollywood's "Academy Awards" are nothing but a fraud.  Like many others, I
did not go see this movie in the theater because Forrest Gump was out at the
same time, hogging all the publicity. What a shame.  This movie should have
swept the Oscars for best picture, best acting (lead and supporting), best
directing, best screenplay....etc.I simply could not believe it when I saw that the AFI Top 100 did not
include this picture at all.  It is simply the best film ever made.  Given
the highly different tastes of individuals, it is rare that you can ask
friends and acquaintances what the best movie that they have ever seen is and
consistently hear the response: "The Shawshank Redemption."  Everything,
every scene, in this movie works.  With the exception of special effects
(this film does not need them), this is the movie all others should be
measured against.

******
18 October 1998
10

This film truly captivates the way hope can set anyone free from their
obstacles.  I truly enjoyed this movie.  It is most probably the greatest
film there is.

******
12 October 1998
10

One of the most wonderfully perfect movies of all time,
you wouldn't want to change a single frame.Paul


******
5 February 2014
2
I enjoyed this the first time I saw it. But then again I was only an
easily impressionable 14-year-old, craving for new emotion. Recently,
more than 10 years later, I revisited it, and barely managed to finish
it. Bluntly, it's as plain and trite as it gets. In fact, I believe
Frank deliberately wanted it that way, so that it would increase its
appeal to the casual movie goers. In general, I have no problem with a
simple, feel-good movie that does not take itself too seriously and is
not looking to change its audience in a profound way. However, this
does and it seems it is succeeding unfortunately....We have a story about hope and its redemptive qualities, portrayed by
an innocent man that is sent to prison(Tim's character). It's told
through the eyes of his closest prison friend(Morgan's character). The
narrative framing and flow are rigid, there is no rhythm, no ebb and
flow, no metaphors, no irony, just constant relentless narration -
extreme simplicity. It's stripped to the point that you can only
remember the generic message. Dangerous stuff. Some people carry it
around and "apply" it diligently. The others only observe the snowball
effect.I hope there are more intelligent endeavors out there. I hope everyone
sees them and appreciates them. I hope...1/5 - Skip this, if you are over 15. There is no art here - almost no
contribution to the art of filmmaking and storytelling.

******
18 September 2009
6
This film is very overrated by seemingly sensible people. It is a
remarkably emotional film on a par with various pulpy Catherine Cookson
films. Talking of pulp, Pulp Fiction is awesome in comparison, as is
The Shining. That Shawshank is voted Number One on many movie charts,
is absolute madness. I have seen it on various occasions and via
various media. And I cannot work out why people have it in such high
regard. Over. Rated. Fact. Also, the film has no air of being cool or
stylish in any way - it has no wow-factor of great cinematography in
the way a film like Let The Right One In has for example. It has no
black humour. It is tame by comparison to other films. It has no
astounding scenes which Pulp Fiction has by the truckload. It has no
atmosphere which a film like The Shining has by the snow-plough load.
Shawshank at Number One - Absolute Madness.

******
21 May 2009
10
There are only a few words I have to say: Every time I watch that film,
I have to cry. There are not many films, which get this result. Must
have something to do with the direction of Frank Darabont. And the
acting of the stars is just brilliant. As a matter of fact, I don't see
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins playing just another role. I only see
two Persons: Andy and Red For a long time I had the problem that when I
saw Tim Robbins in another movie I thought of Andy Dufresne But now I
will write something about the story: Of course I have read the
original story written by Stephen King. It was, in a way different. It
has not that deep meaning that is perceptible in the movie. When I
think about this friendship between the two men... The sentence "Get
busy livin or get busy dyin", well in a way it shaped my whole live.
This is definitely the best film I have ever seen

******
8 March 2009
10
This film touches me. I believe it's the greatest film because I has an
effect on people's lives. We watch a lot of films everyday but hardly
we refer back to them.This is a film I apply in everyday life. Hope is a good thing, maybe
the best of things. The part I liked most is when Red said "some birds
are not meant to be caged; they'll fly away and when they do, that part
of you that knows it was a sin to have locked them up does rejoice..."Indeed we should build our lives such that circumstances cannot cage
us. All the while Andy was in the prison, his mind was outside.Indeed, salvation lies within....

******
8 March 2009
10
when i began to watch this movie,i just said to myself,this should be
the best i ever saw in my life,judging the IMDb rating and Kinopoisk
rating!and it really haven't disappointed me! i learned,that if you
want something so much,and the wish to achieve a thing or to get
something is bigger and greater than anything else,this will obviously
happen! there is nothing more important than to believe in yourself,to
believe in justness, in the right choice of destiny! there are things
that i disliked in the movie,but those awesome moments just overcome
all the misses! I'm gonna watch it again...cause there still remain a
lot of meanings and messages that i must follow! Hope is the best thing
that can ever happen to you! never loose it!

******
3 February 2009
10
I saw this film back in '95 in Romania. Funny thing - it's translated
title there was "Angels' Prison"...I don't if it's the best ever made,
for sure it's the one I liked the most. the film is about friendship -
one thing who became pretty rare nowadays - and is simply magic, don't
have any other words to add except that I've logged in on IMDb' site
just to be able to vote and make sure it stays no. ONE. So it had 7
Oscar nominations, walked away with nothing. That tells me nothing
folks, I only remember the emotions I experienced when I saw it. I'am
not a touchy one but Shawshank did it for me, big time. And one final
word, please don't forget Stephen King in all this, just because he had
commercial success doesn't mean he's not great.

******
1 February 2009
10
There are so many reviews here that it'd be amazing if anyone gets this
far down the List, but it just proves how excellent this film is. Why
didn't it win the Best Picture Oscar? Simple, because the Oscar voters,
like most of us, hadn't seen it yet. Most people blame the title and
the title does nothing to sell the film. It sounds like a religious
film as did "Deliverance". It was definitely not promoted well at all.
I would bet the farm that most people on this list of reviews DID NOT
see it in a theater. I didn't, but since my first viewing of it on DVD,
I've seen it at least 6 times. I loaned my DVD out to friends,
relatives and neighbors and not one of them said it was less than
excellent, and I'm talking some fussy movie watchers and folks who
rarely watch movies. Why? Because it's an engrossingly fabulous story,
told extremely well by gifted filmmakers and crew. It has everything a
great movie has to have...stunning cinematography, crisp, swift-moving
direction, an intelligent script, an emotionally moving score, a
top-notch cast and more. If there's anyone who saw "it" coming, I'd say
you're fibbing, as it is anything but predictable. What more can one
say! Excellent!

******
25 January 2009
10
If there's one surefire movie every person can agree on, it's the
shawshank redemption. while it was originally a novel, it evolved into
what the IMDb considers the best movie of all time, ranking #1 in the
IMDb top 250.Young man Andy Dufresne is framed and cast into Shawshank Prison, The
2nd worst prison in all of America (number one being Alcatraz) While
being in the prison, he's sexually molested by insane inmates, Beat up
by Heartless and immoral guards, and his experience as a banker taken
advantage of by the warden. But through it all, Andy manages to keep
hope through a fear that keeps all of his fellow inmates Prisoners.All i can say is, Watch this film.10/10

******
23 January 2009
10
What can I say about this movie; simply awesome, adorable, great,
brilliant, excellent, the best ever movie I have seen in my entire
life. Surely it is worth to be on the top for decades. When I got to
know about this movie I watched it and to my surprise it was zillions
time better than I thought. Even the new sensation "The Dark
Knight"(which is the best in its genre with the legendary acting by
late Heath Ledger) could not match with this.I have watched movie so
many times and even now not bored of it.The greatest performances from the actors Morgan Freeman (who is my
favorite actor) and Tim Robbins is worth a watch.The story had every
thing about the prison life, the friendship bonding, about the
HOPE(never to loose). The supporting cast was also very convincing and
realistic.I will give it 10 if I can will give it more than that.I suggest you
all to watch it and am sure u will love...........
it.............................

******
14 September 2008
10
My friend asked me that question and I said... TODAYI saw The Shawshank Redemption today, yes nearly after 14 years it was
released and after 26 years of my life on earth... I should have seen
it much before, I guess. I am truly moved by the story and more than
that by the character roles played by Morgan (Red) and Tim (Andy). I
have to admit, this is not one of the greatest, BUT THE GREATEST movie
ever produced.Brooks was there, so was Red... I wish I was also there to see it for
real.This movie gave me new avenues, new thoughts, new energy and more than
everything... it gave me what it gave Morgan Freeman... HOPE

******
14 September 2008
10
Oh my God, I no doubt about it, love this movie more than any other
I've ever seen!!!!! I mean, the script is just breathtakingly
brilliant, and the acting was superb, PERFECT even. I can watch this
movie any time of the day, because it never gets old and I never like
it less. I am so glad to know that it is highly appreciated on here as
well, and it needs to be, this movie KICKS ASS!!!!! If you're a hater,
you don't know what a good movie is, and get a life, but if you haven't
seen this movie, I HIGHLY, "HIGHLY" recommend you see it right away for
you have missed out on something special your entire laugh, and
truthfully, that makes me sad. SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION IS TRULY THE BEST
MOVIE EVER!!!!!!!!!!!

******
3 September 2008
10
I know tons of people have commented on this masterpiece already but I
feel the need to make another one. First of all the plot, the
conclusion, the acting, and the narration are classic. Morgan Freeman
can make a movie just with his voice (but for the record this movie is
so good it doesn't need it).There's no action or explosions just great actors committing to their
roles and making it seem as if you know the characters personally. When I had just finished watching this the other night, I started
watching Family Guy and a joke about Andy Dufresne and the sisters came
on. Although I didn't find it to be very funny I thought to myself "Hey
I know that movie!"When I finished watching it I thought about how it good it was and how
it made me feel about myself for a good day and a half.If you like movies that are not just put out to entertain watch this
movie, trust me you won't be disappointed.

******
29 August 2008
10
Ill make this short. I got two versions of this DVD in my collection,
in case one of them gets broken.Excellent acting by Robbins and Freeman, plus all the other
bi-characters. Thomas Newman's music in the background makes the
moments so sore and intense that you forget everything else. Some
critics might say its a sentimental cry-baby movie, but forget about
it. Ask the biggest moron you can find on a monster-bike and ill bet he
remembers this movie.If you haven't seen the movie, go see it. If you have seen it, go see
it again.

******
23 August 2008
10
I think its obvious to anyone that has seen this movie that its quite
possibly the best film ever. Its just perfect, iv watched it so many
times but its gets better every time, in fact the last time i watched
it, it brought a tear to my eye just as it finished. And i know, that
sounds quite sad but, anyone who has seen film and understands the
sheer quality of its brilliance! Don't get me wrong, there are other
brilliant films but this this one stands out amongst all others, if you
haven't seen this movie then i strongly advise that you make it your #1
priority.11/10

******
7 July 2008
10
'The Shawshank Redemption' is that rare exception that transcends film
itself to become a moving and harrowing experience. Based on a short
story by Stephen King and brought to life for the big screen by Frank
Darabont, one can only watch in awe as this story touches true
greatness. Superb performances, commanding direction, smothering
atmosphere, beautifully bleak cinematography. All the pieces come
together, and do they ever. This is worth more than just a second look,
this a modern masterpiece.There's a great sense of inspiration that can be found at the center of
'The Shawshank Redemption', and that's a story of hope. Hope through
all that life throws at you, hope in midst of uttermost despair. We go
on a journey with these characters, and their stories remain with us
long after we leave them. Andy's attempt to maintain hope and Red's
struggle to allow the thought of it into his life is a powerful story
to be told, highlighted by the fantastic performances from Tim Robbins
and Morgan Freeman.What else is it but art? If a film can reach out beyond the annals of
cinema and become larger than itself, something more than a movie to be
entertained by, can it be considered art? 'Shawshank' marked Frank
Darabont's first venture into the work of Stephen King ('The Green
Mile' and 'The Mist' would follow), and it arguably remains his best
and most accomplished effort to date. His ability to set the tone and
create its smothering prison atmosphere instantly grabs your attention
and never relinquishes it.'The Shawshank Redemption' is a deeply moving picture that has to be
experienced, not observed. Felt, not merely seen. It tells an intricate
story of extreme magnitude, leaving in its footsteps a poignant tale of
hope and freedom. Allow yourself to be taken where films rarely go, the
tragic beauty of it all is nearly overwhelming. A sweeping work of art
to remind us that above all else, when all seems to be lost, never give
up hope. As Andy tells Red, hope is a good thing. And no good thing
ever dies.More reviews at
rottentomatoes.com/vine/journal_view.php?journalid=219276&view=public

******
1 July 2008
10
The movie really seems to have moved me. Its a Story that arouses hope
within an individual. it reminds me of the famous lines from the a
great poem that "when winter comes spring cant be far behind".The movie revolves around the two character Andrew Dufresne and Red.
Andy Dufresne, is sent to Shawshank Prison for the murder of his wife
and secret lover. He is very isolated and lonely at first, but realizes
there is something deep inside your body, that people can't touch and
get to....'HOPE'. Andy becomes friends with prison 'fixer' Red (Morgan
Freeman), and Andy epitomizes why it is crucial to have dreams. His
spirit and determination, leads us into a world full of imagination,
filled with courage and desire. This is about how he spreads his
message of hope through the Shashank Redemption!!!A must watch!! although it may don't seem so great at the beginning but
the ending is marvelous which makes it a masterpiece!!! Do watch it....

******
24 June 2008
10
After you finish this film you will set in front of your screen and
your tongue will get stunned you will feel that the world doesn't exist
and the film will control your brain as a toy this is a film combining
thinking great emotions and the unexpected and traitors some gun
shooting some comedy if I would do something I would go to the creators
of the film and make them some status and write there names in the
books of history . Morgan freeman played acted the film of his life All
cast are masters they did deal with black magic or something if you
didn't see that movie go buy it's DVD right now or I will come and kill
you for not seeing that master piece

******
21 February 2008
10
There's just something about the way this movie is made that makes it a
perfect film. Maybe its the dialouge, or the acting, or the music, or
the cinematography. Whatever the case may be, the point is this, this
film is perfect! Whether your 15 or 80, this movie should deeply movie
you. I know that I was when I first saw it. I don't remember the exact
age I was when I saw it, but I do remember how much this film made me
care about the life I have today.This Film is a personal favorite of mine, not just because of what a
great film it is, but because it's a film my father and I have seen
over 200 times together. The film really analyzes the bond between two
friends and that's how I see my father and I.This film is absolutely brilliant. Morgan Freeman's best performance. I
think the music and the cinematography go VERY unnoticed in the film, I
thought they were both brilliant. This film is perfect in every sense
of the word and I believe should've won the Oscar for best picture over
'Forrest Gump'(even though I truly loved this film).If you haven't already seen 'The Shawshank Redemption' please do
yourself a favor, go to your local videostore, spend the seven dollars
and watch it. Its worth every penny.This film is a true American classic.

******
17 December 2006
10
In my personal view, any person in the world who understands English,
would never say some thing wrong about this movie. If some does
understands English and still says something wrong about this movie, it
means he has not seen the movie. If some one understands English and
has seen this movie as well, and still he says something bad about this
movie, it means he has a really bad taste regarding movies or he does
not know what a movie is. (According to me, these kind of people should
be hanged to death) This movie has changed the life of thousands of
people around the world. I don't think that any one having a little bit
of intellectual level would dislike this movie.

******
11 December 2005
7
I'm constantly amazed by the praise heaped on this film. I've always
seen it as a good film, but too clichéd to rate as as truly great one.On the plus side, it has high production values, has a good performance
from Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne, and it's well-paced until close to
the end.But the downsides are legion.First of all, some of the secondary characters are utterly
two-dimensional (particularly Warden Norton and Captain Hadley). They
lumber through the film as such obvious and simplistic bad guys that
they may as well have moustaches and wear black hats.Secondly, the film cranks out every prison cliché in the book. The
assaults, the corrupt wardens, the ex-con who can't handle the outside
world, the withdrawals of privileges - all have been done before and
with considerably more impact.Thirdly, there are plot holes you could crawl through (as Andy does!).
The notion that Andy Dufresne could dig a tunnel for 20 years without
being spotted isn't up-lifting, it's ridiculous. Did no-one feel the
draught? Did no-one lean against the poster when they visited him in
his cell? As a resolution, it's not clever, just silly.And the finale (from the tunnel to the beach) is overlong and
overwrought.And yet there are standout sequences. The scene where Andy locks
himself into the Warden's office and blasts an aria from Mozart's
Marriage of Figaro over the prison Tannoy is sublime and haunting.An enjoyable way to pass a couple of hours, but no more than that.

******
25 October 2005
10
I would recommend this movie to everyone. The acting, directing,
cinematography are all top notch. The cast are so good that its hard to
imagine anyone else in those roles. If this movie does not make you
laugh and then at, the very least, make you cry a little bit, then you
have no soul.The greatest movie never to have won an academy award - no doubt. The
greatest movie of all time - possiblyIf you have never seen this movie you are lucky, because i will never
again be able to see it for the first time.A truly heart-warming and
inspiring piece of cinema. Awesome

******
18 July 2005
10
I am new to commenting on movies, so maybe I shouldn't have started
with trying to put the Shawshank Redemption into words. The themes of
hope, depression, friendship, greed, and triumph connect with the best
acting I have ever seen in a movie. The actors are so good, you begin
to look at Morgan Freeman in real life as "Red" and Tim Robbins as
"Andy". The humor is ever present, such as conversations held by the
inmates. But perhaps the very best thing for an average viewer is the
constant surprises. I'm not talking about monsters jumping from trees,
I'm talking about how every time the movie starts to seem to get slow
BAM! something happens that represents one of the themes. If you have
not seen this movie, maybe because the fact that it is a "prison
movie," or maybe because it is now eleven years old, you have missed
out on a life experience. It is my favorite movie of all time and
always will be. The 9.1 rating on IMDb is so well earned and
underrated.

******
6 July 2005
10
I know lots has been said about this film since it bombed at the box
office then became a hit through video rental. I am probably not going
to add anything new. I am a Stephen King fan, and have a policy not to
watch the films made from the books as they usually turn out to be
quite dodgy. However, I was urged by a friend to give it a go and I was
not disappointed. This film is about hope and redemption and the
characterisations are faithful to the original story.Tim Robbins is perfect in the lead role, quietly enigmatic, just as I
had pictured when reading the book.The movie is quite old fashioned in concept but don't let this deter
you. You are taken through the whole spectrum of human emotions and end
up feeling better because of watching it. The relationship between the
two lead men is charming and kind of restores your faith in human
nature.You must watch this movie whether or not you have seen it before,
because it makes you feel good.This film will end up being a perennial classic up there with the likes
of "it's a wonderful life" and "the wizard of oz".I can't think of a single criticism.

******
9 March 2005
10
I cant find another word to describe this movie. AMAZING! The title is
so horrible and i never expected i would watch it for 30 minutes. But
when i saw it, i realised the big mistake in not watching it earlier.The movie has a beautiful plot set over 20 years. Every part of the
movie has a bearing on the ending. And never did i imagine such a
spectacular ending. Not many movies can boast of a suspense of such a
kind. This movie is not a thriller, nor is it adventure; but it is a
desire of a Man who lives on Hope and who paves his own Destiny.
Shawshank Redemption leaves you with a elated mind and a moral that it
is fear that holds you back and Hope that carries you forward. I have
only one message for IMDb viewers. Just watch Shawshank Redemption. Do
not avoid it because the title is bad or else you too will have the
same wretched feeling that i had today. Wish i had seen it when i did
have an opportunity a decade ago. Well.. sometimes, cinema is like
this. You go for titles, stars and big buck films and come back home
disappointed. But Shawshank Redemption proves that all you need is a
excellent script, a good director and some thespians like Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins.

******
28 July 2004
7

Strong, meaningful and everlasting message is what makes this movie such
powerful.
The Hope, the Life and the Friendship are elements of Great Impact and are
well incorporated in this feature. But, lots of flaws also. This movie lacks
originality. Approach, characters and dialogues are rather cliched and mold.
Portraying of characters is loose and poor. Dialogues are pretty ordinary
and too conventional. Overall approach is just Routine and  the whole movie
is based on the Final Impact of  the story. In short, its actually not
surprising no Oscar winning and no including into the 100 Greatest Movies by
American Film Institute. Greater Effort in developing characters to be
multidimensional and story to be less conventional would produce One of the
Best. Pity. 7,5/10

******
20 January 2004
5

With universal themes such as redemption, friendship, and good-defeats-evil
tale, and without any significant technical flaws, it may be difficult to
dislike Shawshank Redemption, one of well-done Hollywood flicks in the 90s
by invisible employee directors, while it may also be difficult to find it
compelling, imaginative, and inspirational. Despite a prison situation Tim
Robbins keeps looking ridiculously gorgeous all the time, but this is
made-in-Hollywood.

******
31 December 2002
7

Many reviews talk about how they don't have words that can describe this
movie.  I have the perfect word: vanilla
This movie is the Toyota Camry of movies.  Pleasant, but bland.  It
doesn't
take any risks, just plays it safe and the result is a pleasant
experience,
but not a satisfying one.
I would have liked to see more risks taken.  How about some
ground-breaking
cinematography?  What if some of the characters pushed the envelope a
little
further?  Far enough to be accused of overacting by some?  How about a
parallel story?  How about SEVERAL parallel stories?
What about moving the story at a faster pace?  The beginning of the movie
was really quite slow...There is no reason this movie should be more than
2
hours.  I give it only a 7 out of 10 for breaking no new ground.  I think
this movie fails to distinguish itself in my memory.

******
13 November 2001
7

This wasn't a bad movie by any means, in fact it was pretty good. Good
story, good acting, fairly dramatic, it has most of the key elements in
place. But after reading the book, which was amazing, watching this drawn
out film version just isn't the same. Compared to some of the modern junk
that's out there, Shawshank is pretty solid. But overall, it truly is
overrated, and #2 all time is silly. 

******
6 March 2001
7

Well now I've finally seen it, and I have to say after the tremendous build
up from everyone I've spoken to (IMDB No.2!) etc.. I thought it was .....
OK.  I think I would have scored it higher if I'd seen it five years ago
but
now without nostalgic hindsight it's only a 7!! Shock.. This film is still
well worth seeing but the characters are not as well crafted as in 'The
Green Mile' nor do they command your compassion (Brooks
excepted).I suppose I'd better see 'Hannibal' SOON!

******
29 December 2000
7

Good Movie. The first time I saw it, when it first came out in 1994, I
thought that it was fantastic. But now that I have seen it approaching 15
times now (thanks to TNT), there a few things that I have noticed that have
convinced me it does not deserve to be in the top ten or even the top 50 of
all time.I find the film to be unrealistic. The prison seems to exist in some sort of
hyper-reality where people are either bad guys or good guys but there is
absolutely no grey area. The prison and the prisoners are also very clean,
neither have the lived-in quality that you would expect. I do not know if
this feeling I get from the movie was on-purpose by the director Darabont,
but I feel as the though the authenticity of the movie is not there. I also
feel as though the movie is very manipulative of the audience's emotions in
the way that the story is used to make the viewer feel a certain way about a
character. Of course all movies are manipulative in this way. But I am very
aware of it when I watch Shawshank. I was also aware of it when I watch
movies like The Green Mile or The Hurricane, I feel as though these movies
do not give the audience an opportunity to decide for themselves. Lastly I
think that this movie was carried by the supreme acting, and that if the
Freeman and Robbins were not so good it would not even deserve to be in the
top 250.Otherwise, I rooted for this movie get the oscar in 1994 because I thought
it was a superior movie to Forest Gump.

******
6 May 1999
10

This film is truly magnificent and if there is anyone out there who hasn't
seen it they should get straight down to their local video shop and buy it
because it is the sort of film that you will want to watch over and over
again.  There is no acting in any other film that comes close to Tim
Robbins
and especially Morgan Freeman.  I fail to see how anyone could fault any
part of this film it is, in my opinion, perfect.  The plot line is great
and
there is no way you could guess what is coming next and the ending is
completely unpredictable.    

******
1 February 1999
10

Well there's not much you can say about this movie except that it is the Best
movie of all time and no other Movie will top this great Great movie If you
have not seen it sit back clear your mind and watch it and make sure you are not
bothered while watching it that way you can fully understand the film and
its purpose.So out of a 1-10 scale I give it a 10+++++++
IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN IT
RENT IT!!!!!!!!

******
29 January 1999
10

When I first saw this movie i was 16 and wasn't allowed in the theatre since
it was rated R.  I asked some of the people standing in line if they would
let me come in with them.  I don't know why I wanted to see it so much(the
trailer wasn't that great).  But when I sat down and watched that opening
sequence where the judge slams down that gavel for the poor Mr Dufresne and
Red comes walkin in to the parol board i knew i was in for something
special.  The cinematography  of that old prison was amazing.  As we hear
more dialog coming from the two main characters our hearts go out to these
"brave souls".  The character development is better than in any movie i've
seen for a while.  You really start to care and feel for these imaginary
people as if you knew them.  The more times i watch it on my laserdisc
player, the more I can't believe how anyone could not at least "like" this
masterpiece of filmmaking.  It really got the shaft at the oscars.  Tim
Robbins should have at least been nominated.  I still don't think forrest
gump had as much to offer about the human experience as "THE SHAWSHANK
REDEMPTION".  It really is a fantastic piece of work. Writing, acting,
direction, and cinematography come together in this masterpiece.


******
3 November 1998
10

This is the greatest film ever made.  Everyone already knows that.  (If
you haven't seen it, you are missing out on one of the greatest experiences
you will ever have).
I could write for hours about the masterful direction, the acting which
challenged perfection, the incredible writing, etc., but I wanted to point
something out that others seemed to have missed.
This film boasts the best music I have ever heard in a film. Whoever
wrote the music deserves the credit of being the man, in my opinion, who
made this film what it is.  I'm actually studying music as my major in
college, with film as my minor.  So I just wanted to tell everyone to notice
the music next time you watch this film, and you will have a much more
enjoyable experience.
Every person who contributed to this film is brilliant and I worship
everyone who had anything to do with this film.

******
5 August 2015
6
Do you think Shawshank were showing Skyfall that night? Was this the
final straw for Andy? The catalyst that ensured he went through with
his plan?Did the thought of staying behind and watching Skyfall keep Andy moving
forward through the sh!tpipe? There is no evidence to suggest that the prisoners were not watching
Skyfall so it is reasonable to assume that they WERE watching it -
based solely on the determination and speed that Andy used crawling
through the Sh!tpipe.Only a real James Bond fan - like Andy - would crawl through a sh!tpipe
to escape the abysmal Skyfall.Well done, Andy Dufresne.Well done.Now go and clean yourself off and watch Octopussy.

******
13 March 2006
8
My favorite movie was really The Godfather until I saw The Shawshank
Redemption.A lot of people would might disagree with, but I love this movie. the
actors are great, the director has done a fantastic job and the
screenplay is magnificent.I was so impressed with how every single subplot was given a great deal
of respect and attention from the director. The acting was world-class.
I have never seen Tim Robbins act as well since, Morgan Freeman maybe
(e.g. Seven). The twists were unexpected, an although this film had a
familiar feel, it wasn't even slightly pretentious or clichéd, it was
original. The cinematography was grand and expressive. It gave a real
impression of the sheer magnitude of this daunting prison.I remember, when i saw the movie I didn't want to get up and go to the
toilet. When I finally was done in the bathroom, I couldn't wait to get
back and press play on my DVD. At the time I was done with the movie I
wanted to see the movie again.This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared
it long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability. Darabont
shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and
production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce
art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life
and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed
breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of film. It
proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and still
bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget. So see it, buy it, love it.

******
5 February 2006
10
This film should be joint along with The Godfather as being the
greatest film of all time. The character development and the messages
that is conveying is beautifully done. When the messages such as hope,
friendship and survival come together, it makes an excellent display.It consisted of different metaphors when they were drinking the liquor
on top the roof, and Morgan Freeman was narrating his thoughts as
feeling that they were a free man, this was the best moment of the film
and made me how at that time people were living in jails.Excellent. Prefect. Outstanding film, best jail film I saw in my entire
life...10/10 PS watch out for the new drama that came out in the UK...
Prison Break on channel five. If you liked Shawshank then you will like
this.

******
15 March 2005
10
Filmmakers that plan to make use of Stephen King's writings in the
future need to pull an Orson Welles and watch this about 40 times
before they get into it. And read the short story just as many times.
This is the best transfer of a Stephen King story I've ever seen. I
would give it to Kubrick's The Shining, but it's more like Kubrick took
the story idea and did his own movie on it. In other words, while it's
a classic, it's not that great of an adaption. Andy Dufresne is wrongly
imprisoned for murdering his philanderous wife and while in prison
befriends a prisoner named Red, who is great at getting outside
products to the inmates. The message of the film is strong and clear :
Hope Hope Hope is a beautiful thing. The film is about triumph. About
friendship. It's also about some knockout acting. Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman are at the top of their game. A Must see. Especially if
you are a fan of Stephen King's short story.

******
31 January 2005
10
The Shawshank Redemption, based on the fantastic Stephen King novel, is
a moving story about Andy Dufresne, an innocent man charged with the
murder of his wife and her lover who is sentenced to 40 years in prison
and fights hard to survive, but in prison he forms a rare and close
friendship with fellow inmate Ellis 'Red' Redding. The film more or
less focuses on the friendship between Andy and Red, played beautifully
by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, Morgan's deep and moving voice was
perfect to describe the closeness of his friendship with Andy. The film
had a great happy ending where Andy escaped from the prison after
serving almost 20 years, he also managed to expose the prison as there
was murder and corruption going on there, Andy moves to a beautiful
island abroad and when Red is paroled after serving 40 years in prison
he is reunited with Andy, it was a great ending to a beautiful movie.

******
28 July 2002
7

There is no reason for this movie to be above Citizen Kane, Godfather 2,
etc.  It is a good enjoyable movie yes.  But it is also cheesy at times and
a little bit pretentious. I believe what works for this movie is that it
has
a sort of "everyman" charm to it. It is a movie that an entire family can
sit and watch and enjoy.  Yet, if one digs deeper into it, those that know
movies should be able to see its weaknesses. Its dialogue for one is not
very strong.  The performances are solid, but I believe I have seen Morgan
Freeman do this role better many times before.  Is this a better prison
movie than say... "Murder in the First"? Probably, but is it sooo much
better that this film deserves to be number 2 all time.  THink about
that...
the second best film EVER. Somehow I doubt that. 

******
23 February 2005
7
I cant understand why this movie got such a high rating. its a good
movie but there are lots of others that deserve to be number 2 in the
"best of all time list" (american beauty, pulp fiction, Chaplin's,
Buñuel's or Kubrick's movies, just to name a few). Well..I'm an old
Stephen King fan and the story of "Redemtion" is good and thrilling and
the acting and photography is good as well but its nothing that has'nt
been made before. don't get me wrong i liked it but i think its just a
well made entertaining picture and nothing more.So watch it and have a good time but don't expect an artistically great
work or something all too original.

******
31 January 2005
10
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of murdering his wife and her
lover, and is sent to Shawshank prison: For Life. Andy is a very
intelligent man, a hot shot banker when he was free, and now he's just
a number, at the mercy of Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) and his head
guard, Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown).Andy is a quiet man, but manages to attract the attention of the
sisters (Barely Human Homosexual rapists) led by Bogs (Mark Rolston)
and he begins his prison life, desperately fighting his admirers,
sometimes he'd win, sometimes he'd lose, but he always stayed quiet.Red (Morgan Freeman) is the man who can get things, and he is Andy's
first friend on the inside. We witness Andy's relationships with Red,
the Guards, the Warden, the sisters and the rest of the inmates,
develop through Morgan Freeman's perspective, but always revolving
around Andy. In his time there he successfully wins personal battles,
gains favour with the guards and inmates alike, and restructures the
rehabilitation of so many with his unwavering persistence and drive.All the members of the cast are more than adequate, but i have to
single out Freeman and Robbins. Freeman guides the viewing audience in
an informative and subtle manner, and Robbins, in his finest
performance ever, gives us hope and wisdom, as he manipulates the
powers around him so cleverly, to make life as easy as he can for all
his fellow inmates.The Movie is very powerful and moving throughout, and it doesn't shy
away from the darker aspects of prison life. And at the end when the
climax falls into place, you will be left completely satisfied by its
unquestionable brilliance.For those who have not seen this movie, all i can say is watch it.10/10

******
6 November 2004
7
** Some spoilers about the general storyline **I had some expectations regarding this movie, because of the excellent
rating it got here. To start with the positive: the acting (especially
by the two protagonists) is indeed of the highest level, and some
scenes really grip you. The camera-work is also excellent (beautiful
prison-building!)The story of this movie is a 13-in-a-dozen story about someone who (of
course) is wrongly sentenced to a long story; who meets his new friend
(mostly an elderly person), who makes enemies and defeats them, who
turns his long-stay into something good, then is betrayed by his
corrupt warden, etc. etc. Sometimes it even got a bit cheesy, the way
in which all the prison cliché's were displayed.I could recommend this movie to you, if you are looking for a nice
drama with good acting and good camera. Don't expect an Oscar-worthy
movie, though.

******
16 September 2003
7

The popularity of this film seems to stem with the current emotional
appeals
and issues of today, just as Citizen Kane seemed to do when it was
revived.
What makes Citizen Kane more appealing to me though is the abundance of
creativity in telling the story.If you want a highly emotional experience, I would watch this movie.
Since
I am for more intelligent and unpredictable type films, I am not one for
movies like this.And if I would explain the movie in one sentence, I would say it is a
classic cinema soap opera, perfectly crafted to emotionally stimulate
movie
viewers, in order for them to hold certain perspectives on societal
issues.


******
30 July 2003
7

Let me review this film on two aspects: it's merit and it's high
placement.First of all, ask yourself this question: Is a film great simply because it
achieves? I hope many think this is not the case. Shawshank has a slow and
methodical pace. Along with good performances around the board. The simple
staging and lighting of the film is over-done in it's simplicity and I
personally see no art in it at all. But, I'm not saying it's a bad film.
It's not, and it's far from it. But to be ranked over vastly more
intelligent efforts is a sad reflection on our society.The writing is top-notch. The best thing about the film is the flow of the
story, and I could have simply read a book. I am no huge fan of visual
effects or quick paced story-telling ... but I am a fan of art. Reading a
book would be as enthralling as watching this film. Seeing the acting is
like watching lines being delivered, but being delivered
well.As for it's rating on the site ... the film pushes no boundaries in which
film often offends people to the point of disliking it. It has a nice
uplifting story at the end and presses a lot of hot buttons. Including
murder, infidelity, and scandal. Searching for the soundtrack for this film is what brought me to IMDb for
the first time, actually. So I dare not say this is a bad film; I only say
it's ranked higher than vastly superior films.Rating: C+

******
3 April 2001
6

O.K. you've seen the summary and you're screaming "What kind of sour
limey
b@!*&%$£ says that about one of the greatest films ever made?" Well I've
got
news for you, look again. The Shawshank Redemption is a very good movie,
i
agree but is it all it's cracked up to be? - no. At first you think "I
feel
great - what a feel-good movie!" One can't help wondering that this film,
on
closer inspection, is actually unbelievably cheesy. Every other second i
was
hearing violins about how this poor guy got landed in jail for a murder
he
didn't commit. It's stereotypical - and you guys who voted 10 bought it
hook, line and sinker. "But what about the great twist?" O.k., the twist
was
good but come on...like i said before was it THAT great? Ask yourselves
honestly, was that better than The Sixth Sense's or The Usual Suspects?
Also, how come foreign films which are far superior to this get no
credit?
Watch Le Samurai, or La Haine or Todo Sobre Mi Madre. Far more
superior.


******
5 January 2000
5
Don't get me wrong - I liked this movie just fine, I just don't
understand how it deserves the *heaps* of rapturous praise it regularly
receives from IMDb members, and the fact that is has been ranked at #2
in the hallowed IMDb Top 250 for the past 8 years or so just baffles
me. It was certainly entertaining enough, and very well-acted, but also
way over-long, and filled with the usual stock characters that seem to
inhabit every prison drama (if Hollywood movies are to be believed,
prison wardens are mainly just nasty SOB's and the inmates are just the
best bunch of guys you'd ever want to meet). I'd recommend the movie as
a good renter, but I guess I can't see it as any more than that. I
realize I am way in the minority on this, however.

******
28 May 1999
5

I too was dazzled by this movie when I first saw it; Robbins and Freeman
were both fabulous and the story was an intensely happy marriage of the
nostalgic and edifying to the tense and disturbing. The theme of success
against the odds is rarely so emotive, and the desperate hope and yearning
are truly palpable.But it's simply NOT the best film of all time! Parts of it are cliched,
most
of it is downright implausible. The symbolism is trite and way too
in-your-face, particularly with Freeman explicitly spelling out (albeit
touchingly) what should have been the movie's duty to portray.The ending was a shameless exercise in trying to make the world feel better
than it's ever felt before. Films have
every right to be manipulative, but when it's this blatant the magic
collapses. Or did for me anyway.Mind you, still a smashing flick. I'm only nit-picking because everybody
else seems to be in such a weird frenzy of Shawshank worship.


******
16 August 2009
3
How this is ranked higher than the Godfather I have no idea. I think
IMDb had 90% of those votes for 10/10. THIS IS NOT THE BEST MOVIE EVER.
The Godfather changed cinema forever, with incredible actors from both
male and female. Its great story, its memorable quotes, to a even
better ending for both of them. Written by Stephen King, this is not
his best movie based story, films like "The Shining" with Jack
Nicolson. "The Green Mile" with Tom Hanks. If you want to see a Stephen
King movie, those two would be definite titles. "The Green Mile" tops
"The Shawshank Redemption" by a long shot. I'm a huge movie fan and I
don't see anything in this film that would want for me to give it any
higher ranking than 3.

******
18 January 2006
10
The Shawshank Redemption offers a life lesson; that no matter what,
hope must never be lost. Hope is a good thing. In addition, it shows
the true benefits of friendship, of those that care for you.Andy Dufresne was sentenced to two life sentences for the murders of
his wife and the "fella she was banging." Inside, he meets Red. Red
will learn a lesson from Andy, that hope cannot be stripped from you,
no matter what is done to you, no matter what happens, no matter how we
suffer, hope will always be there to comfort us. Andy's education gets
him benefits with the warden, who makes him his "financial pet" for his
money laundering activities. He does not know however, that his world
is going to come crashing down on him.This movie has had a very poignant and influential impact on myself. I
do not get tired of seeing it, and every time I do, I feel like nothing
in this world can hurt me. Only one word comes to my mind when
describing the power and beauty of this movie. Perfect.Hope will set you free.

******
14 February 2005
10
I have a friend who hasn't seen the Shawshank Redemption, and his
comment was essentially this: "I hate prison movies, and I hate
religion movies, so I'm not gonna see a flick that has both aspects in
it." His loss. This movie, based on a Stephen King novella, is on my
all-time top ten. Of course it has morals and many lessons we can
learn, but bottom line, it is a great movie. Even though we know that
Tim Robbins is innocent, he acknowledges his guilt on a more subtle
level, his failure to be a good person. That he is in prison affords
him the opportunity to become a "good" man for the first time in his
life. He touches the soul of many inmates, in that he educates them in
some of the finer things in life, namely, good music and great
literature. (He corrects an inmate's pronunciation of Alexandre Dumas'
last name from "Dumbass" to the correct "Dumah") The last quarter of
the movie is spot-on great. We are always touched by redemption themes,
just look at how popular "Scrooge" and "It's a Wonderful Life" have
become over the years. Shawshank simply is too good to miss.

******
17 January 2005
10
Shawshank Redemption is one of those infamous movies you never stop
hearing about if you are a crazed movie fanatic. I've been through the
entire top 250 list up and down and this is going back and fourth
between #2 and #3 struggling with Lord of the Rings: The Retrun of the
King. I had to see this movie to see what all the fuss is about.Based on Stephen King's novel, The Shawshank Redemption is a terrific
adaptation of his book. The acting, I mean don't get me started. Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman were perfectly casted and fit so well
together. What I mean in my title to my summary is, I felt that I could
relate. This reminded me so much of my friendship with my best friend,
because her and I are so close and would do anything for each other.
Even wait until the end of time just to hang out and talk again.I felt this story also brought up major important points, what does a
convict do after so many years in prison? Pretty much a good job is out
of the question, same with a decent place. Your family might disown you
and everything you knew was in that prison. It's sort of like being
shoved from a lake to an ocean and you're drowning with no life
preserver. This movie actually got me thinking about that.Also there is the final notion of the court systems, because we are
also dealing with Tim Robbin's life. He keeps claiming his innocence
and no one will listen to him or believe him. I felt awful for him, I
know there are a lot of men and women in prison who are innocent and
are paying for other people's crimes.I would highly recommend The Shawshank Redemption, I believe it's
better than Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King. So watch it and
understand this movie, it's important. This should be watched by
everyone and you get out of the movie what you bring into it.10/10

******
2 November 2003
7

Good acting from all concerned carries the rather simplistic and obvious
storyline beyond the saccharine, but the villains are really predictable in
their villany and the storyline, while initially moving and affecting, seems
forced and unreal once you step back from Robbins and Freeman's
performances.In other words, a high impact movie that rapidly loses credibility with
considered thought after viewing. Far more worthwhile, though, than many
other similarly stretched dramas and by no means a failure. But by no means
in the top rank of movie making.

******
24 February 2003
3

This movie is a mystery to me. I couldn't find anything exceptional on it.
It's another HBO stuff, without any aesthetic achievement and It's
absolutely conformist. But there is a fact: people love it. I want to be
fair: the movie is OK, but people put it in the same place than The
Godfather! Maybe I'm wrong, but it's not the best picture of all the
times,
not even the best prison picture of all the times. Now I'm remembering
"Cool
Hand Luke" or "American Me", they are stronger and wiser. But..people has
the last word.

******
4 July 2006
7
Some consider it a masterpiece, some just an example of experienced
film-making. I'm sticking with the second opinion. I really do like The
Shawshank Redemption, mainly because of its actors, but it remains a
movie which pretends to tell a shocking story while using
black-and-white schemes, unlikely characters (Andy Dufresne makes some
saints look like amateurs) and incomplete character backgrounds. It is
utterly unauthentic wherever you bother to question its settings or
characters.A better prison movie should at least give the audience an idea of what
rape, the loss of freedom, the loss of contact to your family and
friends, bad conditions and dullness can really do to a person.I like the movie when it manages to show me how Brooks isn't able to
adapt the outside world anymore. I find it mediocre when it tries to
tell me the story of true friendship, strength and hope itself lying
within a prison. I do not like it when it sells me men who manage to
get through such hard times without developing any kind of trauma or
negative characteristics.

******
23 September 2003
4

That this film ranks as No2 in the 'all time' list on IMDB says a lot for
how folks don't watch films from any era before the 90s anymore, for how
else could it genuinely sit atop that list? I suppose in an age where
everything on amazon gets at least four stars, good subjective criticism
is
proving harder and harder to find...but really...is this film better than
Chinatown? Better than Casablanca? The Third Man? Mean Streets? Withnail
and
I? Better than Adam's Rib, Singin' in the Rain, Rear Window, Day for
Night,
Bande a Part, Taxi Driver, West Side Story, Les Quatre Cent Coups, Some
Like
it Hot, Seven Samurai?I've seen this film twice, once at the cinema and once on TV as I lie
stuffed with Xmas dinner. The first time was mildly enjoyable, the second
pretty turgid. Despite the presence of the ever excellent Robbins (though
Morgan Freeman phones in the same performance he's given in every film
ever
since), this film never transcends the humble source of its story - a
Stephen King short - and whilst it's a 'nice' tale with a reasonable twist
at the end, can anyone else explain to me why such praise has been heaped
on
this utterly average experience?And it's not just IMDB. A recent UK Channel Four poll found Shawshank
right
up there. Perhaps it's the combination of pseudo-harsh prison story and a
buddy tale along with the lashings of on the nose humanism that appeals
across genders and other boundaries. I don't know. But believe me, if this
were the 2nd best film ever made in the world ever, let's just say cinema
wouldn't be the popular influence it is today.Go out there, people. Find the true 'classics', find the films this piece
of
sentimentalia stole its every beat, every note, every word of dialogue
from.
And then come back and tell me this is anything other than a hotch potch,
a
50s throwback with a 90s sentiment.


******
18 September 2004
4

This bloated and soggy piece of work is so far from earning a number 2
spot on the IMDb that I have to imagine that Stephen King has bought
votes for it. Trite , mawkish, shallow, unconvincing, ugly... How much
more can I say about its awfulness? Morgan Freeman is tolerable, Tim
Robbins is not. There is a romantic glow to the cinematography that is
really inappropriate if the main characters are heterosexual. If they
aren't there is an unexplored subtext poisoning the base of the movie.
There is nothing else about this movie that makes a lick of sense:
emotional, dramatic, logical, racial, penological. Rips off the Count
of Monte Cristo and Huckleberry Finn and cheapens and flattens them.
Its appeal escapes me utterly. For the love of God, sink this film!


******
30 July 2003
6

Little more than average drama for popular tastes.
Predictable,  overly sentimental, and excessively long.It's a mystery to me that such a mediocre piece of cinematic art is
at number 2 in the all time chart! However, predictably it's not in the
top 100 more serious 'Sight and Sound'  critics and directors polls
that are held every  ten years. Frank Darabont later proved to be no
master with his two following films, the second rate 'The Green
Mile' and the truly appalling 'The Majestic'. The fact that this
pedestrian movie is, in this chart, ahead of the works of  real
masters such as Kubrick, Welles, Kurosawa, Fellini and Hitchcock
causes consternation.

******
21 December 2002
5

I finally decided to see this film after reading good reviews and noting
that this film ranks in IMDB's top ten list (currently #2). At the very
least I disovered where all the noble people are: they're in
prison!The film is decent, but it certainly isn't what I would call great or
extraordinary. There are good performances by Robbins and Freeman, but
the
pace of the movie is very slow and the cinematography is unremarkable.
Characters are largely stereotypes, the story is somewhat formulaic (and
sometimes ludicrous), and the noble prisoners vs wicked guards dichotomy
is
simplistic and unrealistic. I was also particularly annoyed at the
narration, which always seemed to explain more than it needed to. As for
the
ending, I guess I was not as suprised as others since I did read the
Stephen
King novella many years ago. Still, given that the story takes place in a
prison, you don't need to be a genius to guess part of
it.This movie reminds me of Dead Poets Society in terms of its tone and
theme
of uplifting the human spirit against a backdrop of despair. If that's
your
thing, you'll love the movie. It's not really my thing.5/10

******
5 July 2002
5

Oh come on 2nd best movie ever, I don't think so.  It's unrealistic and
overly sentimental, the people who voted so high can't have seen many
films.
By all means watch it, but Papillion for example, is far superior, who
can
forget Steve McQueen's red rimmed eyes and pasty face as he catches bugs,
and crushes centipedes into his watery broth to get nourishment in that
incredible portrayal of hardship and determination.  I wouldn't put
Papillion as the 2nd best film of all time, but it has to be the best
Prison
drama.  Watch Shawshank and you'll enjoy it as a lightweight entertaining
feel good movie, but there are so many classic films better than this.


******
26 May 2002
3

!!Spoilers to this movie, as well as to Sixth Sense and Citizen Kane just
for spite!!Shawshank Redemption is one of those movies that oozes with "give me an
Oscar pleeeeeease" all over it. You know the type  - like "Dances with
Wolves." Oversentimental and overlong. It's surprising that this movie has
such a high imdb ranking considering it's such a very black and white
(prisoners=good, prison-keepers=evil) movie rehashing what's been hashed
and
hashed many times.The story concerns an apparently-wrongly-convicted banker Andy Dufresne
(Tim
Robbins) who is sentenced to life at Shawshank Prison in that creepiest of
states, Maine, for murdering his wife and her lover. His main 'friend' at
Shawshank is wily old-time-prisoner named Red (Morgan Freeman). Nobody can
deny that Morgan Freeman is one of the greatest actors ever, and I'm not
going to. Tim Robbins also gives a performance that one wouldn't guess he
had in him by watching, say, "Nothing to Lose" (which nevertheless is a
better movie). And the supporting cast is all excellent in roles that are
incredibly one-dimensional. Okay, that's it for the good. Here comes the
bad, and the ugly.Early on in the film, Red, who doubles as the narrator, tells us that
although he'd like to tell us Andy wasn't gang-raped by some of the fellow
inmates (the only bad inmates in there, by the way, and then they get sent
away, so that leaves only good ones) but he can't, cause "that'd be a
fairytale.  And there are no fairytales here at Shawshank." How wrong he
is!
The whole movie is a fairytale (albeit without any of the excitement and
fast-pace of one).We get characters who are so completely good as to be Saints for our two
main prisoners (and most of the other ones) and the Prison guards and
warden
who all seem to be variations on the evil stepmother from Cinderella and
the
evil stepmother from Snow White (heck, they're so evil, their intramural
baseball team's name is the Marauders. Gee, I wonder if you people get the
hidden message?).The story itself is about two-and-a-half hours of sadism (very slow-paced
sadism, mind you),
an hour of philosophical jabbering that, frankly, is far inferior to a
philosophy class at the college if you're into that sort of thing (Hope is
Good? Oh my God! What a revelation! Tell me more! Honestly, I've heard
songs
which have more depth than this movie!)
And half an hour of the ending.It's hard to talk about the faults of the movie without giving away the
ending, because, the ending itself is one of the main ones. All good movies
have an ending that makes you think (or at least are somewhat open to
interpretation, and/or sequels). But not this one. Although I counted at
least five or six points where the movie could have ended with leaving some
room for thought, it follows through to the bitter predictable end. It's as
if it's saying "you know what, you viewers are all idiots, we better not
let
you think about anything at all." Even if that was true, it's quite
insulting.  What's more is the ending is incredibly predictable. How could
it not be, if it's told to you in the title of the movie? I mean, imagine
if
the Sixth Sense was called "The Dead Psychologist" or Citizen Kane was
called "The Sled" (sorry, imdb censorship guys, I know this makes your job
harder, but I just can't think of a way to explain it otherwise).And I haven't even mentioned the worst part. This movie is incredibly long
and boring. It's not a movie that is "slow" or "moves at its own pace" -
those are alright by me. No, this movie, something is always happening, but
not a single thing of interest. And like that for hours and hours and hours
and hours and hours. Okay, that's a bit of an exaggeration. But
still.Another thing is this movie's already-mentioned assumed self-importance.
It's irritating at the least. It's a long, boring, unoriginal version of
what Cinderella would be if somebody traded in all the women characters for
swearing, rape and police brutality. I mean, frankly, Charles Perrot beat
you to it by four centuries, that's close to an all time record for
unoriginality!

******
9 July 2001
4

I've been content to lurk and learn on this web site for months, but after
reading the reams of glowing critiques of this film, I felt obligated to
get
an IMDB account and print a contrary point of view.The Shawshank Redemption is an obvious, thinly characterized, visually
uncompelling film.  Whether it's the good guy/bad guy cliche or the  white
guy/black guy cliche, it's still the same old Hollywood.This is not a film which discovers life through enigmas, dilemmas, and
reflections.  It is a film which wears its rather plain message on its
sleeve.3 out of 10.   For prison flicks try Dancer in the Dark.  Someone else
recommended alternative prison flicks Kiss of the Spider Woman and Cool
Hand
Luke.  I heartily agree with those choices.

******
18 December 2003
6
It is the most basic of all principles of film-making: A story of
redemption. This time the story is set inside Shawshank Prison, where
successful banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sent to during the
40s, after being falsely accused of murdering his wife and her lover.
The jail veteran, Red (Morgan Freeman), sees Andy being forced through
the front gates of the jail on his first day of arrival and sees him as
a weakling. Red even makes a bet with the fellow inmates that he won't
last. He's wrong.Andy does last, and becomes an inspiration to all of those behind bars.
The warden of the jail, Samuel Norton (Bob Gunton), is intent on
bringing down Andy and his defiant nature, as all villains always are.That is the prevailing message, I suppose. The redemption comes
two-fold -- Andy is given time to reflect upon his life in Shawshank,
and Red (who is obviously deeply moved by Andy's influence) learns a
thing or two, going through a cleansing process. We see the gradual
change, too -- first Red is the cynical veteran, then the curious
insider, then the close friend, then the surprised object of
redemption. As strange a title it may be, "The Shawshank Redemption" is
a worthy one.At the end of the day, "Shawshank" is a good film - but far from a
perfect one. I'm not interested in responding to its Top 250 placement
with my review (as countless others have done), but the fact that it
has been voted into the number one slot is a reflection of how
universal its appeal is: it's about as likable and mass-marketed as
possible. There's nothing here to really offend or provoke and the film
doesn't take enough changes to potentially polarize audiences -- it
plays it safe, and in my opinion, a bit too safe. The film's message of
hope and redemption is way too heavy-handed, the outcome being a movie
that is very simple and easy to digest -- but not really very
interesting beyond its surface. It speaks volumes that so many people
who have gone through depression often reference this as one of the
aids they used for comfort -- it's a movie that pats people on the back
and gives them hope and inspiration. That's a great message, but if you provide it without any challenge to
the audience -- and instead just spoon feed it -- well, for me, anyway,
it doesn't leave much of an impact. It's just a well-made but
manipulative and self-important film.

******
23 July 2003
4

The Shawshank Redemption is with out a doubt one of the most over rated
films of the 90s.  There have been many intriguing prison movies over the
years, Shawshank is not one of them. Instead it's sentimental slop served to
uplift the souls of the American people.  There is never any sense in the
film that Tim Robbin's character is in true danger.  If the film wanted to
show the true horror of prison maybe it should of been far more darker,
instead of inspiration. Morgan Freeman is wasted as usual, in the role of
wisdom spouting inmate. Freeman's character is mainly there to look wise and
bring inspiration to us all, but he is never treated as a typical person.
Tim Robbins is good, but his character is all good, while the prison warden
is sure evil. Everything is black and white.  Shawshank has potential to be
great, but director Frank Darabant's obsession with being Frank Capra ruins
the film at every turn.  

******
28 February 2002
4

What's going on here? At the moment I am writing these words The Shawshank
Redemption is 3rd in IMDb's all-time top250. I don't think the movie is
particularly bad, but to rank it even in the Top50 is a crime against a lot
of brilliant film makers further down the Top250 and even more people whose
works don't even appear on the list!So now I ask if anybody can please explain to me:
1) Why is this movie's average rating over 9? Does it appeal to some basic
American sense of justice and love of happy endings?
2) Why did more than 65.000 people rate it? I'm pretty sure it wasn't
nearly
as commercially succesful as The Lord of the Rings or the Godfather with
about 50000 votes. Did it do well on video in the US?And if you REALLY feel like watching movies about people behind bars why
not
give Cool Hand Luke or the 1974 classic(!) Caged Heat a
try?I don't mean to demean The Shawshank Redemtion or anything, but I just
don't
get it's massive rating. Is this one of the most overrated movies of all
time? Well, according to the statistics of this, the odds are that you do
not think so. But would you then please be so kind as to explain it to me.
Feel free to email me.


******
21 January 2002
3

This movie is annoying in several ways.  The criminals are all
goodhearted,
thoughtful, sensitive guys while the guards and warden are the REAL bad
guys.  gimme a break.  What is this?  Dukes of Hazard? (which was far
better
than this).  Further, the plot is so, so, so predicable.  Good guy
outsmarts
the bad guys and real justice is served. spare me.  I know, a lot of
people
love this flick, but in my humble opinion it is a big waste of
time.

******
21 September 2006
3
I have a good friend that I can discuss movies with all day. Generally
we have very similar tastes and critiques. Shawshank, is the only movie
we completely disagree on. This movie insulted my intelligence from the
first minute. All the prison clichés are painfully represented in this
one film. The Innocent lead character, the benevolent inmate friend,
the evil warden, the sadistic guard, etc.. Then of course you are
mesmerized by the hackneyed subplots and obligatory scenes (i.e.) the
attempted rape. About the only ingredient not thrown into this
proverbial soup was a football game.This movie has some fine acting and direction, but considering its big
name cast and production, the product is sophomoric at best.

******
14 February 2016
9
Can Hollywood, usually creating things for entertainment purposes only,
create art? To create something of this nature, a director must
approach it in a most meticulous manner, due to the delicacy of the
process. Such a daunting task requires an extremely capable artist with
an undeniable managerial capacity and an acutely developed awareness of
each element of art in their films, the most prominent; music, visuals,
script, and acting. These elements, each equally important, must
succeed independently, yet still form a harmonious union, because this
mixture determines the fate of the artist's opus. Though already well
known amongst his colleagues for his notable skills at writing and
directing, Frank Darabont emerges with his feature film directorial
debut, The Shawshank Redemption. Proving himself already a master of
the craft, Darabont managed to create one of the most recognizable
independent releases in the history of Hollywood. The Shawshank
Redemption defines a genre, defies the odds, compels the emotions, and
brings an era of artistically influential films back to Hollywood.The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.By creating the film's firm foundation, the meticulously chiseled
screenplay paved the way for this film's success. Frank Darabont
outdoes himself with the phenomenal adaptation of Stephen King's
equally noteworthy novella, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. In
this novella, King demonstrates that he can break free from the genre
he dominates and still create a marvelous piece of modern literature.
Though the film mirrors the novella in many ways, Darabont illustrates
a focused objective of improving upon the areas where the novella came
up short, resulting in one of the best book to film transitions ever.

******
15 January 2016
10
So, 'The Shawshank Redemption'. Where do I start? The 1994 prison drama
based on the Steven King novella 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption', from his 1982 collection 'Different Seasons'. Andy
Dufresne, a banker from Maine, is convicted for the double murder of
his wife and her lover, a crime he did not commit. He is sent to
Shawshank State Penitentiary to serve a life sentence. There, he meets
Red, a prisoner who smuggles items from the outside world. Andy, who
had been an amateur geologist before being jailed, asks Red to get him
a rock hammer for shaping rocks he collects from the exercise yard into
small sculptures. One of the next items he orders from Red is a large
poster of Rita Hayworth. Over the ensuing years, Andy regularly
requests more posters from Red, including pin-ups of Marilyn Monroe
and Raquel Welch. When asked, Andy tells Red that he likes to imagine
he can step through the pictures and be with the actresses. So now you've got a basic overview; let's get into the protagonist and
of this fictional prison tale - Andy Dufresnse. As previously stated,
Andy is a banker from Maine. At first sight Andy comes across an icy
and cold man, whilst in the court room; causing the viewer to lean
towards deeming him guilty, rather than innocent. The saying 'Never
judge a book by its cover' springs to mind in this instance. We find
out Andy is a well educated and extremely crafty gentleman because of
his ability to sculpt small rocks with a rock hammer, and his knack for
self-education through reading books.A pivotal character in this films plot is Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding; of
whom interestingly - is of Irish heritage; hence the last name
'Redding'. As you may have picked up his nickname is'Red and it is a
play on words ofhis last name. He was sent to Shawshank Prison in Maine
in 1927, because he planned and carried out his wife's murder by
disabling her brakes which accidentally killed a neighbour and child as
well, which earned him a life sentence at Shawshank Prison. In the film
he is known as the 'guy who can get things' as he regularly smuggles
many items into the prison with help from others. Also, a very craft
and intelligent man.It is also an incredibly moving story, which makes you ponder what it'd
be like to feel as trapped as the prisoners, and to feel the
desperation they would have. Not to ruin the plot completely but 'Red'
described himself as 'institutionalised', which made him feel like he'd
struggle to exist outside the walls of Shawshank. To me, It's a
powerful, poignant and thought-provoking film like no other; which
truly has the ability to alter your outlook on life, and I believe it
could change it in a positive way as it teaches you to be grateful for
the life you have, as some others are much worse off than you are. I
also admire the attention given to the story, which no other movie that
I have watched has quite done. And that is why I consider it as one of
my all-time favourites.

******
15 January 2016
10
Shawshank Redemption is an uplifting, deeply satisfying prison drama
with sensitive direction and fine performances. This is an engagingly
simple, good-hearted film, with just enough darkness around the edges
to give contrast and relief to its glowingly benign view of human
nature. Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a man who has never
struck a false note in his career, both narrates this tale and anchors
it with his authoritative playing. Simply marvelous entertainment. A
passing reference to 'The Count of Monte Cristo' offers a partial clue
to what makes this movie compelling.Spiritually moving old-fashioned prison picture.

******
15 January 2016
10
One of the best movies I have watched till date.A must watch for people of every age and gender.You just don't know the whole time has passed.You will not be able to miss even a single moment of the movie.Best Screenplay One of the best acting I have seen in movies.Storyline is just WOW I do want to see this movie in theater if it is again shown on
multiplexes.This kind of movie remind you that you do not need VFX to make a good
movie.This movie is just the magic of the writers, actors and all others
without much need of any high tech gadget that will add up the cost.Really Awesome

******
11 January 2016
10
Actually Shawshank is one of the best movies I have seen in the
American theater it is a complete movie what is meant by the word
beautiful photography, exquisite story, crew influential
representation. Is a film directed and written creator Frank Darapont
It is the movie that I recommend every one to see it, this movie can
change your life and stick in your memory forever. It is the one who
deserves our praise and analysis, viewing and also return, in fact it
is more than just a movie. Tells us a written novel by Stephen King and
talk about Andy Dufferin and who was working as a banker brilliant,
then discovers one day his wife betrayed him with another man, he is
accused of killing her and thrown in jail for life. Then spin most of
the events of the film there, the prison forthcoming .. Shawshank
Prison.

******
29 November 2015
5
Shawshank is arguably the most overrated film I have ever seen, perhaps
joint with Forrest Gump (although Shawshank is superior to that.) This
is a good movie, with good characters and a nice storyline. That's
pretty much it. There's nothing close to excellence in this film, the
characters, whilst relatable, are very one dimensional. The bad guys
are bad and the good guys are good. There is no development to them,
they are simply archetypes, and for film with the word 'redemption' in
its title, there is no redemption to be shown. Morgan Freeman's
character is redeemed from the start, and Tim Robbin's character has
nothing to redeem for anyway - they are simply two characters lacking
in depth who fail to grow throughout the film.There are points of the film that do have an emotional punch, and it is
certainly a film worth watching, but it's far too shallow to be
considered great. I have always felt as though I am watching an
afternoon TV movie when I see this - it is a simple film, with simple
characters that lacks in deep themes, ambiguity and development,
instead opting to tell you everything through the (largely) unnecessary
narration. Is Shawshank a good film? Yes, it is. Is it great? Absolutely not.

******
25 October 2015
7
This movie is not bad , but i think it's overrated because there is too
many movies that are better than this one , it's not even the best one
in 1994, as we have Satantango, Pulp Fiction and Forrest Gump ! .. and
its like i wanna go in the details more and more and the movie stayed
not deep enough , so there is a lot of stories that deserves talking
about it! ,, its not only about how to escape ! i don't want a movie
like that ! ,, arts are better than fun , and if there is no art there
is no fun ! so it doesn't deserve the first place in this list ! its
overrated ! ,, and i hope from other users to watch a lot of movies so
they can judge in equal way!

******
18 October 2015
10
So many great things to say about this film. Very Touching story and
will definitely be remembered as a classic. Another Timeless movie to
add to the list. It really shows how dynamic all of the characters
become throughout the film. Morgan Freeman's monologue is outstanding
and is one of my favorite movie monologue's. The character Andy Dufrain
is the most dynamic character of all. I would put this movie on the top
of my list. I've seen it several times and have it on DVD. I also love
the screenplay music is very inspirational, calm , and relaxing and
gives a sense of serenity. The time setting is done perfectly it really
brings you back to the time of the movie in which it is set. I would
advise everyone to see this film and the persecution Andy Dufrain goes
through.

******
2 October 2015
5
Wrongly convicted, Andy Dufresne (Robbins) is sentenced to two
consecutive life terms in in Maine's Shawshank prison for the murders
of his wife and her lover. Set in the 1940's, the film shows how Andy
learns to get by in the brutal confines of prison, even earning the
respect of his fellow inmates Runtime: 142 min Rating: Rated R for
language and prison violence. Production: Castle Rock Entertainment
Genres: Drama, Crime Country: USA Language: English Home Release Date:
Dec 21, 1999 Cast Credit Bob Gunton Warden Norton Brian Libby Floyd
Clancy Brown Captain Hadley David Proval Snooze Gil Bellows Tommy James
Whitmore Brooks Hatlen Jeffrey DeMunn 1946 D.A. Joseph Ragno Ernie Jude
Ciccolella Guard Mert Larry Brandenburg Skeet Mark Rolston Bogs Diamond
Neil Giuntoli Jigger William Sadler Heywood Producer Credit David V.
Lester Executive Producer Liz Glotzer Executive Producer Niki Marvin
Producer

******
14 September 2015
5
Perhaps I need to sit down and re-watch this movie in HD, which is not
gonna happen in the near future. Until the day that happens, the
mystery behind this hype shall continue baffling me.Anyway, this is my very first review on IMDb, and it makes sense that I
choose to review the movie with the most number of ratings and highest
rating on IMDb...Yes, The Shawshank Redemption holds BOTH records. Most
popular movie + Greatest movie. Am I really the only one who doesn't
get the hype? Gibberish aside, let's get to the point.I'll narrate my experience of watching this movie a year ago:- I wasn't that into movies at that time, and I did not know much about
the movie when I dived into it. All I knew was that this was #1 on
IMDb, so I was expecting to be watching the greatest movie of all time.- Having watched the trailer, the signs were ominous. The trailer
promised an intriguing premise, but the main actor (Tim Robbins) failed
to catch my attention.- Around 30 minutes into the movie, I was already bored. Just like in
the trailer, Andy Dufresne was lifeless and insipid from the first
minute. There was zero character development, so how was I supposed to
root for him? IMO, getting him to do random things does not equate to
character development. And before I go on any further: don't ever bring
up the book. I watch a movie and judge the movie and only the movie.- Throughout the rest of the movie until the ending, the story was as
hollow as it could ever get. (I'm not sure where the spoiler boundaries
are, but I'm pretty sure I can say this) The main characters do random
things here and there while they develop a bond along the way, and that
is really about it. Like I said, there was no prior character
development, so I had very little interest in what the characters were
doing. At that point in time, I was already very mystified. Is there
any way out for this movie?- The Shawshank Redemption's Redemption: hence, I concluded that the
only way this movie could redeem itself is to have a shocking ending.
Unfortunately, the redemption never happened for the movie. The ending
was as predictable as it could get. By then, I was already asleep for
the 3rd time.So, summary of problems IMO:- Little character development, yet story heavily relies on audience
relating to characters- Insipid main character. Difficult for audience to relate to him- Predictable storyline and ending. Too long- Dialogue takes itself too seriously, especially with the
all-so-convenient quotes about life and deathIn my book, 5/10 is considered a failure.

******
15 August 2015
8
One of my favourite films, at first it was shocking, different and I
was on the edge of my seat watching what would come around next. With
the cast and filmography all working in harmony and the storyline
telling a truly human story. The progression of the story from start to
finish is brilliant and how the events unfold scene by scene with the
heart of the story being about friendship and Hope surviving the most
soul crushing situations. To build something in the confines of walls
designed to take your life without actually killing you. This still is
an amazing piece of cinema and I know that if they try to re make this
film in the years to come the original will always be number one.

******
13 August 2015
10
This movie is so awesome! Its an classic, this is the type of movies we
need for the future. I was so happy it was cool I hope this exist in
the future.This movie is so awesome! Its an classic, this is the type of movies we
need for the future. I was so happy it was cool I hope this exist in
the future. This movie is so awesome! Its an classic, this is the type
of movies we need for the future. I was so happy it was cool I hope
this exist in the future.This movie is so awesome! Its an classic, this
is the type of movies we need for the future. I was so happy it was
cool I hope this exist in the future.

******
10 August 2015
10
Seeing The Shawshank Redemption for a second time reinforced my feeling
of admiration for this splendid film. Although I am writing my review
in 2014 -- twenty years after the movie's original release -- it seems
as fresh and alive as ever. Top-notch performances by all cast members,
exceptional cinematography by Roger Deakins, and masterful direction by
Frank Darabont (who also penned the screenplay based on Stephen King's
short story "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption") combine to make
the film something special indeed.Co-stars Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins simply transform themselves
into two unconventional prisoners. Their inspired acting helps us
understand the virtue of patience and hope, regardless of how long and
how much suffering one might face. Freeman plays "Red" Redding, a man
who has adapted to prison life by becoming the institution's "go to"
guy for various items from the outside world. Robbins is Andy Dufresne,
a successful banker sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of
his wife and lover. These very different men become friends who think
decency and kindness are important, even in the brutal prison
environment.That brutality may be very hard for viewers to watch, but those
disturbing scenes are necessary to give the film its gritty realism.
Sadistic Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) runs Shawshank Prison like it's his
own personal kingdom, and Captain Hadley (Clancy Brown) carries out the
warden's orders -- very enthusiastically.Things change for the better when Captain Hadley receives help with
some paperwork from Andy. It's not long until Andy is assisting all the
guards with their tax returns. Soon Warden Norton takes interest in
Andy and uses him for his own paperwork. The result? The warden grants
little favors that improve the lives of the prisoners. Unfortunately, a
new prisoner (Gil Bellows) arrives with a revelation about Andy's case
-- one that creates chaos for everyone concerned. The only thing Andy
can do involves a daring escape. But how? And what will happen to Red
if Andy leaves? Although The Shawshank Redemption boasts a number of memorable scenes,
my favorite shows Andy broadcasting an opera selection to the entire
prison population. All the men are stunned as they listen in awe to the
beautiful music. However, as you've probably heard, no good deed goes
unpunished. Especially at Shawshank. Released in 1994, this acclaimed motion picture earned seven well-
deserved Academy Award nominations including a Best Actor nod for
Morgan Freeman. The film also won the Humanitas prize, the Crystal
Heart Award from the Heartland Film Fest, and was among the National
Board of Review's Top Ten Films of 1994.

******
7 August 2015
9
Simply amazing and heart touching movie. End of movie is extremely
good. Acting I will rate 10/10 to all the cast. Direction 9.5. Story
10. Screenplay 9. Action is not much in movie. Songs I didn't liked.
Cameraman 9. Editor 9.5. Story: Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is
sentenced to two consecutive life terms in prison for the murders of
his wife and her lover and is sentenced to a tough prison. However,
only Andy knows he didn't commit the crimes. While there, he forms a
friendship with Red (Morgan Freeman), experiences brutality of prison
life, adapts, helps the warden, etc., all in 19 years.Wrongly
convicted, Andy Dufresne (Robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive life
terms in in Maine's Shawshank prison for the murders of his wife and
her lover.

******
6 August 2015
10
One of the best movies ever . Great story .Morgan Freeman was great .
After opening on 33 screens with take of $727,327, the $25M film fell
fast from theatres and finished with a mere $28.3M. The reasons for
failure are many. Firstly, the title is a clunker. While iconic to fans
today, in 1994, people knew not and cared not what a 'Shawshank' was.
On the DVD, Tim Robbins laughs recounting fans congratulating him on
"that 'Rickshaw' movie." Marketing-wise, the film's a nightmare, as
'prison drama' is a tough sell to women, and the story of love between
two best friends doesn't spell winner to men. Worst of all, the movie
is slow as molasses. As Desson Thomson writes for the Washington Post,
"it wanders down subplots at every opportunity and ignores an abundance
of narrative exit points before settling on its finale." But it is
these same weaknesses that make the film so strong.

******
29 July 2015
9
The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared
it long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability. Darabont
shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and
production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce
art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life
and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed
breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of film. It
proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and still
bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.

******
28 July 2015
9
The shaw shank redemption is undoubtedly a good film, no movement, no
special effects, even no beauty, but still can impress the audience,
and after more than ten years and charm. It depend on what attracted
us? Some say because it reflects the toughness of the "human nature".
Indeed, with a small hammer, nearly 20 years, the personal control is
very strict fascist prison, unearthed a small escape tunnel (perhaps
call hew to knock a small tunnel is more suitable, the hammer is too
small). Isn't this resilience reflects the people? But I think the plot
is dramatic obviously, this is just a director in the arrangement of
the plot, at the end of this just in order to reflect the
"self-salvation" Andy finally succeeded, otherwise the whole plot and
theme. So some people think that, "the shaw shank redemption" reflect
is actually "hope" is how valuable to the people. Yes, the film
directly when it comes to have lots of hope. Such as Andy escaped
prison after letter to Rhetta said: "Remember, Hope is a good thing,
maybe the best of things and no good thing (dies." Maybe that's what
works and director want to tell us. "Fear can hold you prisoner, Hope
can set you free." This sentence has become a famous. To me, "the shaw
shank redemption" touched my place not only on this. Tell me about my
ideas about the characters in the film first. A shark fort prison, the
prisoners inside and officials, seems to be that our society. High
above the warden NORTON, at ordinary times, on the lines, such as the
bible actually gain by hook or by crook, cruel and cunning and greed.
Guards long Haley and other officers, and vicious brutality, ACTS as
NORTON's thugs, grass Jan the prisoner's life. They are like a power
class in our reality? I call it a shark fort ruler of the "small
society". There are different in the prisoners. Besides the protagonist
Andy, Rhetta (Morgan Freeman) is a key figure, of course, I think he is
a clue of the film: in fact, the whole movie dialogue is not much, in
the film a lot of want to show the things is by Rhetta monologue, which
were mostly Rhetta to shaw shank life reflection to summarize and his
interpretation of Andy. Rhett is a wise man, and he in shark fort mix
very well, make the demand of people he was less than "no". His wisdom
and insight into the shark fort the essence of life, he said to Andy:
"the shark fort, hope is a dangerous thing", this is the wise man's
tongue. In my environment, people will say "Rhetta comrade very
sophisticated," at such a time. However, and the reality of the
so-called "wise men", although Rhetta see see through the essence of
the shark fort, but he didn't want to fight in the past, not to mention
influence and change others, he is only conform to the rules in order
to protect themselves in the shaw shank. Until Andy appear, changed
his, and eventually lead him to the freedom of the other shore.

******
27 July 2015
9
According to me this movie is one of the best movies i have ever come
across till my 21st birthday,till date. It is one of the remarkable
works in direction,acting and arts. The movie goes with a flow of
thriller and suspense.....maintaining the patience of the protagonist
,also it entertains with a touch of humor and stupid fights! The movie
makes a mark that anything can be achieved if done by heart. It is a
sheer masterpiece to portray that Where there is a will ,there is a way
! The movie also sets a freedom which each human has in his own mind
but he cannot set himself free from his tensions,etc. Yet , it can be
done with true hard work,dedication and focus !Cheers to the "Shawshank Redemption" Team ! Peace. :)

******
26 July 2015
10
This was the best Prison movie about a innocent man put away wrongly nd
i will still watch it every time like i am watching it for the first
time !!! The story line was great. easy to follow and understand they
way the story plays out. Had some twists that i had no idea was coming.the acting was really good, was better then i expected, the actors
really stuck to there character.The filming was done good the shooting of the movie seemed flawless. no
skips between scenes and the color and lighting was great on how the
shot the movie.Overall It is great timeless classic movie that i will always enjoy,
and hope my children will as well enjoy it. Thank you for taking the
time to listen to my opinion.

******
26 July 2015
10
A great film to watch anytime because it moves you every time you watch
as it depicts friendship, hope and redemption. The friendship between
the characters Andy and Red is amazing. An awesome movie which I watch
whenever I feel low. It fills me with some hope to believe that
everything will be alright as Andy says "Hope is a good thing, maybe
the best of things, and no good thing ever dies." Would have won Oscar
if it wouldn't have been made in the year 1994. People remember Forrest
Gump which bagged the Oscar that year as a good film, but this movie
remains as one of the all-time best movies in history. It has been two
decades since this movie released and still this movie stands at Number
1 among the IMDb ratings and that shows it all.

******
26 July 2015
10
good.Your reviews should focus on the title's content and context. The
best reviews include not only whether you liked or disliked a movie or
TV-series, but also why. Feel free to mention other titles you consider
similar and how this one rates in comparison to them. Reviews that are
not specific to the title will not be posted on our site. Please write
in English only and note that we do not support HTML mark-up within the
reviews.good.Your reviews should focus on the title's content and
context. The best reviews include not only whether you liked or
disliked a movie or TV-series, but also why. Feel free to mention other
titles you consider similar and how this one rates in comparison to
them. Reviews that are not specific to the title will not be posted on
our site. Please write in English only and note that we do not support
HTML mark-up within the reviews.

******
25 July 2015
9
This movie is a classic of the 90s, full of violence and excitement in
the search for freedom at any cost, by the protagonist. The storyline
takes place mostly during the stay in prison of the character from the
beginning, does not conform to the unjust confinement. During frame the
character makes several friends but also suffer violence at the hands
of rivals In a relentless search for his release with the help of his
friends during a storm of nature at night, manages to escape from
prison and win his dreamed freedom. I really recommend you to watch at
this movie if you like a exciting drama movies. Tip: this movie is
available on Netflix.

******
25 July 2015
8
One of the most beautiful and well directed and produced movies I have
ever seen in 1990s Movie Series,Morgan Freeman played so nice and
professional in this one like others that he used to play a rule.
personally Speaking this Movies wanted to explain the real friendship
and Loyalty between two persons or simply two friends and because of
this these kinds of features made the movie more acceptable and worth
watching it for that long running time,and Also good to talk about
wonderful rule that Mr.Tim Robbins played in this Movies but Overall
this one contains superstars and also A well known French director
Mr.Frank Darabont so we convinced Why this movie got the Rate of 9.3/10
From almost 1.5 Million Users in IMDb only and I can surly say Movie
Lovers have watched this Wonderful Opus in their Watch List.

******
24 July 2015
9
Im not going to write a massive review as so many people have already
told you everything you need to know about this amazing film.I will however say 3 things that make it my favourite film.1, I have yet to find a film that matches this for inspiring Hope,
Dreams and Friendship.2, Shawshank Redemption is Stephen King at his best.3, Even if you don't usually like prison films this one will be the
exception.These three points are the reason why Shawshank Redemption is my
comfort blanket and will always be my go to film..

******
23 July 2015
9
HOPE!-A very powerful word that incites sense of faith is the main
theme of the movie. That coupled with friendship gives us this amazing
movie which is just too good to watch. There's a reason why it has been
at the very top since decades.It's because it touches the human part of
you. Frank Darabont did an excellent justice to this movie.There is
nary a word or scene out of place in the entire thing.It's an
adaptation of Stephen King's novel. The characters are brilliantly
cast.Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins, has been sent to prison for
a crime he did not commit. But he never loses hope. He never gives up
his quest to become a free man again. There's a part of you which wants
to see him accomplish this.The story focuses on Andy's relationship
with "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman, in probably his best role) and his
attempts to escape from Shawshank and the stories that unfold with that
quest. If you haven't seen this movie until now, go watch it,you won't
be disappointed.

******
21 July 2015
9
Directed by Frank Darabont, this film ticks all the boxes of what
excellent films are all about. It encompasses the reality of a prison
thriving on corruption among its operators as Andy Dufresne (Tim
Robbins), the protagonist, struggles to serve a sentence wrongfully
imposed on him. It seems the only thing helping him survive the harsh
reality of prison is fellow inmate Red (Morgan Freeman) with whom he
forms a special friendship. Life for Andy in a tough prison is set to
last him all his life. If you're looking for a movie that will take you
on an emotional roller coaster, or a tear-jerker, then this is the film
for you. Great cast, excellent story-line and perfect acting. It's
based on the novel written by renowned author Stephen King. So get your
tissue boxes out and ice-cream because this movie is emotionally
draining. Great film, 9/10. Really.

******
20 July 2015
9
This movie is watching worthwhile. You cannot just predict about whats
going on. Really fascinating movie. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman was
outstanding. It's like I was present with them all the way. The way
this movie was started and till the very end it was marvelous. I have
to mansion about the dialogues used in this movie that they were truly
inspiring. This movie made me think about life. Surely it can inspire
ones life and can lead to greatness. Yes, it was one of the best movie
that i have ever seen. Direction was quite well and cast were more then
perfect. The character for Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman suits them
most and I think no one can do better then them :)

******
17 July 2015
10
Shawshank Redemption is the best Movie i've ever seen, it does
everything right, cinematography, story, characters, realism and the
scope. This is a true masterpiece, no other film can possibly beat
this. If it wasn't for this film, it wouldn't like myself anymore.The story follows Andy Dufrense, a alcholic who gets framed for murder
of his wife and get sent to prison, while in prison, he meets Red, a
lovable prisoner who joins his years in prison to find a way a out of
prison and along the way, help out the evil Warden Norton, while going
through redemption and solace for Dufrense's Escape.The film is beautifully written, With script so good, it makes every
Movie-goer happy. The characters are intense and well-developed, they
socialize in so many ways, like Brooks and Tommy, Brooks is a Liberian
who has poor life, in the end committing suicide for his own will, and
Tommy being a troubled Family man who must learn the alphabet to become
better at vocabulary, but getting shot by one of the henchmen that
Warden has. The acting is great, especially Morgan Freeman, he can't
get any better. Tim Robbins is good as well, being more dramatic and
personal than before.The film is one of the most realistic prison films i've seen, the
violence is shown in full view, sometimes off-screen and the Language
is guaranteed, this is why this film is a adult Movie, sure sensitive
kids can handle it, but it's so realistic, that's it's just too much to
handle.Shawshank Redemption is the best Movie i've seen...period, no other
film can bring that much realism and drama than this masterpiece, it's
just beautiful, this is absolutely a must watch, should not be
overlooked, despite being a huge Box Office flop, it's fantastic and
possibly the best since Godfather.10/10

******
17 July 2015
10
I don't know what to tell about this film.I just know this is the best
film i watched in my entire life.t is a strange comment to make about a
film set inside a prison, but "The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm
hold on our feelings because it makes us a member of a family. Many
movies offer us vicarious experiences and quick, superficial emotions.
"Shawshank" slows down and looks. It uses the narrator's calm,
observant voice to include us in the story of men who have formed a
community behind bars. It is deeper than most films; about continuity
in a lifetime, based on friendship and hope.Interesting that although the hero of the film is the convicted former
banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is never seen from his
point of view. The film's opening scene shows him being given two life
sentences for the murder of his wife and her lover, and then we move,
permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and
particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman). It is his
voice remembering the first time he saw Andy ("looked like a stiff
breeze would blow him over"), and predicting, wrongly, that he wouldn't
make it in prison.From Andy's arrival on the prison bus to the film's end, we see only
how others see him - Red, who becomes his best friend, Brooks the old
librarian, the corrupt Warden Norton, guards and prisoners. Red is our
surrogate. He's the one we identify with, and the redemption, when it
comes, is Red's. We've been shown by Andy's example that you have to
keep true to yourself, not lose hope, bide your time, set a quiet
example and look for your chance. "I guess it comes down to a simple
choice, really," he tells Red. "Get busy livin' or get busy dyin'."The key to the film's structure, I think, is that it's not about its
hero, but about our relationship with him - our curiosity, our pity,
our admiration. If Andy had been the heroic center, bravely enduring,
the film would have been conventional, and less mysterious. But we
wonder about this guy. Did he really kill those two people? Why does he
keep so much to himself? Why can he amble through the prison yard like
a free man on a stroll, when everyone else plods or sidles?

******
17 July 2015
10
One of the Best Prison Movies of all time.The acting and situations are amazing! The story is great, with a
perfect ending!Morgan Freeman is good as always while Tim Robbins is just amazing in
the role.The story revolves around Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne who is sentenced
to two consecutive life terms in prison for the murders of his wife.Beautiful set pieces, acting and storytelling, especially by Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins. Both of which play their finest role.It is good to see that how he adapts to the life and does what he does. It captures everything that makes us human and draws it over a
three-hour feature length film. There aren't many movies in this world, I enjoy watching a second time,
let alone 5-6 more times. This being one of them. I would strongly recommend this to any film buff, and let it be known
that this is most likely my favorite movie of all time.

******
14 July 2015
10
I think this has been one of the finest movies ever made. I thought
cinema in all it grandeur. Frank Darabont needs to be applauded for his
direction. You can judge the finesse of the director by the perfection
he shows to capture the smallest details in a movie. All the actors
involved from small to lead roles have done a tremendous job in their
portrayal. The film is riveting and gripping. It does require you to be
patient as the build up of the characters takes some time. but once the
story moves forward it captures you and you are mesmerized by the story
and it builds a connection. I have watched this movie couple of times
and can surely say that you will watch again its just that sort of a
movie. This one is a must watch.

******
10 July 2015
10
No matter what I'm doing, if Shawshank Redemption is on; I have to drop
everything and watch it. It's one of those films that grabs hold of you
and never let's you go and will haunt you long after the credits role.
The entire cast was superb lead by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
Their friendship chemistry on screen was palpable, rich and sweet.
Beautiful to watch. And let's not forget the wonderful adaptation from
Stephen King's short story. Frank Darabont is a filmmaker I respect and
admire and he gets it right were other King filmmakers sadly fail. If
you have not seen it, do yourself a favor and watch it as soon as
possible. You will not soon forget it.

******
10 July 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemptionabsolutely amazing movie its a must see if u haven't seen it already i
could not take my eyes away from the screen i was scared to go to
toilet in case i missed anything Morgan freeman played his part to
perfection as did Tim Robbins i would recommend anyone to watch this if
they have not done already hard to believe this was 1994. a simple
prison movie based on hope, friendship and redemption. a fantastic
movie that touches the soul of so many people. if (and that is a big
if) you do not like this movie then i will be absolutely shocked and
surprised. i have rated it a ten out of ten because i think this movie
is by far one of the best i have watched to date (2015).So people watch it take in every second of the movie and most of all
ENJOY!!!!!!

******
10 July 2015
10
The first time I watched this movie everything was dark and unsolved
for me because I didn't get the main message of the movie, the message
that Frank Darabont was trying to extend between us "Humans".So I
watched it ten more times and that was when I realised My life has been
changed.Even that I knew every single dialogue from the movie and all I
did was to liken the movie to my life. likening prison , likening the
people and likening the freedom. Now I will just write 10 words so that
next time you're watching the movie , you will focus more on it. Prison
, Enemies , Music , Thinking Aloud , Hope , Hope , Hope , Hope , Hope
and Hope. The first thing that I will show my children is The Shawshank
Redemption before any shitty pipe animations and cartoons.Thank you Hamed/2015

******
10 July 2015
8
In its Oscar year, Shawshank Redemption (written and directed by Frank
Darabont, after the novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption,
by Stephen King) was nominated for seven Academy Awards, and walked
away with zero. Best Picture went to Forrest Gump, while Shawshank and
Pulp Fiction were "just happy to be nominated." Of course hindsight is
20/20, but while history looks back on Gump as a good film, Pulp and
Redemption are remembered as some of the all-time best. Pulp, however,
was a success from the word "go," making a huge splash at Cannes and
making its writer-director an American master after only two films. For
Andy Dufresne and Co., success didn't come easy. Fortunately, failure
wasn't a life sentence.After opening on 33 screens with take of $727,327, the $25M film fell
fast from theatres and finished with a mere $28.3M. The reasons for
failure are many. Firstly, the title is a clunker. While iconic to fans
today, in 1994, people knew not and cared not what a 'Shawshank' was.
On the DVD, Tim Robbins laughs recounting fans congratulating him on
"that 'Rickshaw' movie." Marketing-wise, the film's a nightmare, as
'prison drama' is a tough sell to women, and the story of love between
two best friends doesn't spell winner to men. Worst of all, the movie
is slow as molasses. As Desson Thomson writes for the Washington Post,
"it wanders down subplots at every opportunity and ignores an abundance
of narrative exit points before settling on its finale." But it is
these same weaknesses that make the film so strong.Firstly, its setting. The opening aerial shots of the prison are a
total eye-opener. This is an amazing piece of architecture, strong and
Gothic in design. Immediately, the prison becomes a character. It casts
its shadow over most of the film, its tall stone walls stretching above
every shot. It towers over the men it contains, blotting out all
memories of the outside world. Only Andy (Robbins) holds onto hope.
It's in music, it's in the sandy beaches of Zihuatanejo; "In here's
where you need it most," he says. "You need it so you don't forget.
Forget that there are places in the world that aren't made out of
stone. That there's a - there's a - there's something inside that's
yours, that they can't touch." Red (Morgan Freeman) doesn't think much
of Andy at first, picking "that tall glass o' milk with the silver
spoon up his ass" as the first new fish to crack. Andy says not a word,
and losing his bet, Red resents him for it. But over time, as the two
get to know each other, they quickly become the best of friends. This
again, is one of the film's major strengths. Many movies are about
love, many flicks have a side-kick to the hero, but Shawshank is the
only one I can think of that looks honestly at the love between two
best friends. It seems odd that Hollywood would skip this relationship
time and again, when it's a feeling that weighs so much into everyone's
day to day lives. Perhaps it's too sentimental to seem conventional,
but Shawshank's core friendship hits all the right notes, and the film
is much better for it.It's pacing is deliberate as well. As we spend the film watching the
same actors, it is easy to forget that the movie's timeline spans well
over 20 years. Such a huge measure of time would pass slowly in
reality, and would only be amplified in prison. And it's not as if the
film lacks interest in these moments. It still knows where it's going,
it merely intends on taking its sweet time getting there. It pays off
as well, as the tedium of prison life makes the climax that much more
exhilarating. For anyone who sees it, it is a moment never to be
forgotten.With themes of faith and hope, there is a definite religious subtext to
be found here. Quiet, selfless and carefree, Andy is an obvious Christ
figure. Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) is obviously modeled on Richard
Nixon, who, in his day, was as close to a personified Satan as they
come. But if you aren't looking for subtexts, the movie speaks to
anyone in search of hope. It is a compelling drama, and a very moving
film, perfectly written, acted and shot. They just don't come much
better than this.OVERALL SCORE: 9.8/10 = A+ The Shawshank Redemption served as a message
of hope to Hollywood as well. More than any film in memory, it proved
there is life after box office. Besting Forrest and Fiction, it ran
solely on strong word of mouth and became the hottest rented film of
1995. It currently sits at #2 in the IMDb's Top 250 Films, occasionally
swapping spots with The Godfather as the top ranked film of all time --
redemption indeed. If you haven't seen it yet, what the hell are you
waiting for? As Andy says, "It comes down a simple choice, really.
Either get busy living, or get busy dying.

******
10 July 2015
9
Im not going to write a massive review as so many people have already
told you everything you need to know about this amazing film.I will however say 3 things that make it my favourite film.1, I have yet to find a film that matches this for inspiring Hope,
Dreams and Friendship.2, Shawshank Redemption is Stephen King at his best.3, Even if you don't usually like prison films this one will be the
exception.These three points are the reason why Shawshank Redemption is my
comfort blanket and will always be my go to film

******
8 July 2015
9
I first watched it when I was 10 years old, and my mind immediately
discarded it, but once I started to watch films for what they
represent, I can honestly say that this film has all the qualities a
great film will have: Great screen writing, great actors, a great
director, a captivating story and a plot that swings you towards a
great end.This film represents what the whole film industry now a days has at
times forgotten: You don't have to make a saga of films for people to
remember your work, all you need is a great story that, despite being
so complex, explains itself during the whole film, and doesn't need to
be 3 or 4 hours long for you to understand the characters or empathize
with the situations.All in all this film will forever be the perfect example of how any
film should be made, in order for it to be remembered.

******
8 July 2015
10
This movie has the one thing every great movie has, and that is that
the movie is tied together and all the details conform into one great
story at the end. Don't get me wrong the movie was great through every
scene (especially small details, like how Red sees 'Brooks was here'
carved into the ceiling of the room Brooks hangs himself in), but the
moment you think you'll see Andy hanging lifeless from his cell you
find out that he has escaped Shawshank. In the next moments while
watching you start to realize that from the first day Andy talked to
Red about the pick hammer, he already has his plan in mind. And even
though it seems as if Andy wants the poster of the actress while
watching the film for his own pleasure, he actually used it to cover up
the tunnel he dug during the years he was in Shawshank. Andy's calm
demeanor when under pressure from the warden and the guards causes him
to slip under their eye and dig the tunnel to escape Shawshank. That's
why this is my favorite movie of all time, because the conclusion makes
you realize things that were going on throughout the story that no
other movie ending can even come close to how the Shawshank Redemption
ends.

******
8 July 2015
8
This is a great movie I agree with it but the 1st place should be taken
from other titles like The Godfather, Pulp Fiction or Apocalypse Now
for example. Those films changed for some reason the way people look at
the cinema nowadays. Take Pulp Fiction for example, Tarantino have
created a whole universe with their movies, all the stories are
connected in some way, he created cigarettes and hamburger brands that
he use in all his movies, the fact that "The Bride"(Kill Bill) is just
a character played by "Mia Wallace"(Pulp Fiction) and by the same
actress(Uma Thurman). These layers, make a movie get pass by
generations and still get the "thing" in your head every time you see
it. I could talk about some other movie or director that deserve the
1st place more than this on but I have chose this example and I would
like to know your opinion about it.Thanks,

******
8 July 2015
10
I have to thank to the director, actors, screen players and the other
people who made this film. -Morgan Freeman is a genius of the
cinematography and stars only in very beautiful pictures. -Tim Robins
plays one of the most loved characters ever. -Frank Darabont made his
best film. -The storyline is one of the most interesting that I've ever
seen. One of my favorite movies ever! I'm happy that this film is in
top 10 but i consider that there are other films who deserve to be no.
1, but I still love this picture! I hope next generations will love
this film the same way I do. Continue to make gorgeous pictures! Best
wishes! B-)

******
8 July 2015
10
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive life terms
in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is sentenced to
a tough prison. However, only Andy knows he didn't commit the
crimes.While there, he forms a friendship with Red (Morgan Freeman),
experiences brutality of prison life, adapts, helps the warden, etc.,
all in 19 years. n 1947 Portland, Maine, banker Andy Dufresne is
convicted of murdering his wife and her lover and sentenced to two
consecutive life sentences at the fictional Shawshank State
Penitentiary in rural Maine. Andy befriends prison contraband smuggler,
Ellis "Red" Redding, an inmate serving a life sentence. Red procures a
rock hammer and later a large poster of Rita Hayworth for Andy. Working
in the prison laundry, Andy is regularly assaulted by the "bull queer"
gang "the Sisters" and their leader, Bogs.In 1949, Andy overhears the brutal captain of the guards, Byron Hadley,
complaining about being taxed on an inheritance and offers to help him
legally shelter the money. After a vicious assault by the Sisters
nearly kills Andy, Hadley beats Bogs severely. Bogs is sent to another
prison and Andy is never attacked again. Warden Samuel Norton meets
Andy and reassigns him to the prison library to assist elderly inmate
Brooks Hatlen. Andy's new job is a pretext for him to begin managing
financial matters for the prison employees. As time passes, the Warden
begins using Andy to handle matters for a variety of people including
guards from other prisons and the warden himself. Andy begins writing
weekly letters to the state government for funds to improve the
decaying library.In 1954, Brooks is paroled, but cannot adjust to the outside world
after fifty years in prison and hangs himself. Andy receives a library
donation that includes a recording of The Marriage of Figaro. He plays
an excerpt over the public address system, resulting in him receiving
solitary confinement. After his release from solitary Andy explains
that hope is what gets him through his time, a concept that Red
dismisses. In 1963, Norton begins exploiting prison labor for public
works, profiting by undercutting skilled labor costs and receiving
kickbacks. He has Andy launder the money using the alias Randall
Stephens.In 1965, Tommy Williams is incarcerated for burglary. He joins Andy's
and Red's circle of friends, and Andy helps him pass his G.E.D. exam.
In 1966, Tommy reveals to Red and Andy that an inmate at another prison
claimed responsibility for the murders Andy was convicted of, implying
Andy's innocence. Andy approaches Warden Norton with this information,
but the warden refuses to listen and sends Andy back to solitary when
he mentions the money laundering. Norton then has Captain Hadley murder
Tommy under the guise of an escape attempt. Andy refuses to continue
the money laundering, but relents after Norton threatens to burn the
library, remove Andy's protection from the guards, and move him out of
his cell into worse conditions. Andy is released from solitary
confinement after two months and tells Red of his dream of living in
Zihuatanejo, a Mexican coastal town. Red feels Andy is being
unrealistic, but promises Andy that if he is ever released he will
visit a specific hayfield near Buxton, Maine and retrieve a package
Andy buried there. Red becomes worried about Andy's state of mind,
especially when he learns Andy asked another inmate to supply him with
six feet of rope.The next day at roll call the guards find Andy's cell empty. An irate
Warden Norton throws a rock at the poster of Raquel Welch hanging on
the wall, and the rock tears through the poster. Removing the poster,
the warden discovers a tunnel that Andy dug with his rock hammer over
the previous seventeen years. The previous night, Andy escaped through
the tunnel and used the prison's sewage pipe to reach freedom. Andy
escapes with Norton's suit, shoes, and the ledger containing details of
the money laundering. While guards search for him the following
morning, Andy poses as Randall Stephens and visits several banks to
withdraw the laundered money. Finally, he mails the ledger and evidence
of the corruption and murders at Shawshank to a local newspaper. The
police arrive at Shawshank and take Hadley into custody, while Norton
commits suicide to avoid arrest.After serving forty years, Red is finally paroled. He struggles to
adapt to life outside prison and fears he never will. Remembering his
promise to Andy, he visits Buxton and finds a cache containing money
and a letter asking him to come to Zihuatanejo. Red violates his parole
and travels to Fort Hancock, Texas to cross the border to Mexico,
admitting he finally feels hope. On a beach in Zihuatanejo he finds
Andy, and the two friends are happily reunited.

******
7 July 2015
9
It is an interesting remark to make around a film set inside a jail,
yet "The Shawshank Redemption" makes a warm hang on our sentiments on
the grounds that it makes us an individual from a gang. Numerous films
offer us vicarious encounters and brisk, shallow feelings. "Shawshank"
backs off and looks. It utilizes the storyteller's quiet, perceptive
voice to incorporate us in the account of men who have shaped a group
in the slammer. It is more profound than most movies; about congruity
in a lifetime, in view of companionship and trust.Fascinating that in spite of the fact that the saint of the film is the
indicted previous investor Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the activity is
never seen from his perspective. The film's opening scene demonstrates
to him being given two lifelong incarcerations for the homicide of his
wife and her darling, and after that we move, forever, to a perspective
speaking to the jail populace and especially the lifer Ellis "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman). It is his voice recollecting the first
occasion when he saw Andy ("resembled a solid breeze would blow him
over"), and foreseeing, wrongly, that he wouldn't make it in jail.From Andy's landing on the jail transport to the film's end, we see
just how others see him - Red, who turns into his closest companion,
Brooks the old curator, the degenerate Warden Norton, gatekeepers and
detainees. Red is our surrogate. He's the one we relate to, and the
reclamation, when it comes, is Red's. We've been demonstrated by Andy's
case that you need to hush up about genuine, not lose trust, wait for
your opportunity, set a calm illustration and search for your
possibility. "I get it comes down to a straightforward decision,
truly," he tells Red. "Get occupied living' or get occupied dying'."
The way to the film's structure, I believe, is that its not about its
legend, but rather about our association with him - our interest, our
compassion, our profound respect. On the off chance that Andy had been
the chivalrous focus, boldly persevering through, the film would have
been traditional, and less baffling. Be that as it may, we ponder about
this gentleman. Did he truly execute those two individuals? Why does he
remain quiet about to such an extent? Why would he be able to wander
through the jail yard like a liberated individual on a walk, when
others trudges or steers? Individuals like fervor at the motion
pictures, and titles that give it do well. Movies about "recovery" are
drawn closer with extraordinary watchfulness; many individuals are not
excited by the possibility of an awesome film - it seems like work. Be
that as it may, there's a crave messages of trust, and when a film
offers one, its liable to have resilience regardless of the fact that
it doesn't get a prompt group of onlookers.

******
6 July 2015
10
This is an excellent movie. Its content is intellectual and touching. I
would recommend every one to watch Shawshank Redemtion. I ended up
getting feelings I didn't know I had, and it can actually be too much
for a delicate soul like mine. It has everything you didn't know a
movie should have, and will certainly change your state of mind for a
while. I have close to nothing bad to say about this movie, it is as
close to perfect as it can be. I kind of got the feeling that "I will
never accomplish such an amazing piece of film in my lifetime", and
that the writers and of course actors in Shawshank Redemtion are
unbelievable. Now watch it.

******
6 July 2015
9
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont. ~ Mark Deming, Rovi

******
6 July 2015
10
I extremely recommend for the people who is a fan movies, The Best of
The Best movies of all the Times!My first impression before watch the movie it was like" This seems
pretty bad movie, just for the photo" but then my uncle/Godfather told
me to watch, in the begin it was a little stopped the movie but then i
start to enjoy , and the end is the best thing because he is very
intelligent at the point he dig a hole through the wall , and put a
post, and help the chief of the prison with the finances.I have watch this movie like 4 times! In a scale of 0/10 i would give
100!

******
6 July 2015
10
Shawshank redemption- an absolute blinder. A movie that sets a perfect
benchmark for all the movie makers. A movie that can be watched again
and again and still it makes your heart pump. Truly a 10 star
movie.Direction 10 out of 10, background score 10 out of 10, acting
speechless. We rarely find a movie that has a perfect star cast and
every actor outnumbers the counterpart. Morgan freeman truly legendary
actor. These are the movies that not only deserve awards but also some
special position in Cinemas history. Hope is the biggest weapon for any
man to achieve something in life. Shawshank redemption proves these
lines that Hope is the biggest thing in life.

******
5 July 2015
9
With a legion of titles like Pet Sematary, Firewalker, Sleepwalkers,
Maximum Overdrive, and Children of the Corn, it's reasonable not to
expect much from Stephen King-inspired motion pictures. Adaptations of
the prolific author's work typically vary from mildly entertaining to
virtually unwatchable. There are a few notable exceptions, however; two
of which Stand by Me, Misery were crafted by widely-respected director
Rob Reiner. While The Shawshank Redemption is not a Reiner movie per
Se, it is a production of Castle Rock Pictures Reiner's film company,
and ranks among the best filmed versions of any King stories to date.
This statement has not changed since I first wrote it in 1994.Spanning the years from 1947 through 1966, The Shawshank Redemption
takes the "innocent man in prison" theme and bends it at a different
angle. Instead of focusing on crusades for freedom, the movie ventures
down a less-traveled road, concentrating on the personal cost of
adapting to prison life and how some convicts, once they conform, lose
the ability to survive beyond the barbed wire and iron bars. As one of
the characters puts it: "These prison walls are funny. First you hate
them, then you get used to them, then you start to depend on them."Filmed on location in a disused Ohio prison, The Shawshank Redemption
is set in a place of perpetual dreariness. What little color there is,
is drab and lifeless lots of grays and muted greens and blues, and
there are times when the film is a shade away from black-and-white give
credit to cinematographer Roger Deakins, a longtime Cohen brothers
collaborator. It's ironic, therefore, that the central messages are of
hope, redemption, and salvation.First time feature director Frank Darabont helms a fleet of impressive
performances. Tim Robbins, as Andrew Dufresne, plays the wrongly
convicted man with quiet dignity. Andy's ire is internal; he doesn't
rant about his situation or the corruptness of the system that has
imprisoned him. His unwillingness to surrender hope wins him the
admiration of some and the contempt of others, and allows the audience
to identify with him that much more strongly.Ellis Boyd Redding Morgan Freeman, or "Red" as his friends call him, is
the self-proclaimed "Sears and Roebuck" of the Shawshank Prison for a
price, he can get just about anything from the outside. His is the
narrative voice and, for once, the disembodied words aid, rather than
intrude upon, the story. Serving a life sentence for murder, Red is a
mixture of cynicism and sincerity - a man with a good soul who has done
a vile deed. His friendship with Andy is one of The Shawshank
Redemption's highlights.William Sadler (as a fellow prisoner), Clancy Brown as a sadistic
guard, and Bob Gunton as the corrupt warden all give fine supporting
performances. Newcomer Gil Bellows, in a small but crucial role that
was originally intended for Brad Pitt, brings the poise of a veteran to
his portrayal of Tommy Williams, Andy's protégé.Ultimately, the standout actor is the venerable James Whitmore, doing
his finest work in years. Whitmore's Brooks is a brilliantly realized
character, and the scenes with him attempting to cope with life outside
of Shawshank represents one of the film's most moving - and effective -
sequences.Unfortunately, following a solid two hours of thought-provoking drama,
the movie deflates like a punctured balloon during its overlong
denouement. The too-predictable final twenty minutes move a little
slowly, and writer/director Darabont exposes a distressing need to wrap
up everything into a tidy little package."Salvation lies within," advises Warden Norton at one point. It is the
presentation of this theme that makes The Shawshank Redemption unique.
Prison movies often focus on the violence and hopelessness of a life
behind bars. While this film includes those elements, it makes them
peripheral. The Shawshank Redemption is all about hope and, because of
that, watching it is both uplifting and cathartic.

******
4 July 2015
10
Probably Stephen King's best adaptation ever. Of the kind to make have
a change of mind those who consider King as a minor writer only good to
work in the horror. Having seen this movie and then "The Green Mile"
and "The mist", one thing's for sure : Frank Darabont should be the
only one authorized to turn Stephen King's writings into movies. I
regret that this magnificent movie received no Oscar, in spite of its
nominations numerous. The Oscar of best actor for Morgan Freeman, best
score for Thomas Newman and best cinematography for Roger Deakins would
not have been stolen. I would have also awarded Bob Gunton as best
actor in a supporting role

******
4 July 2015
9
This movie is so inspiring and will never get old, like the saying "Old
and Gold", it will be forever be watched now and after 20 years, they
won't and can't do a movie like this. When i was a kid, and my father
showed me this movie, i actually didn't understood it(i was 12 years
old but still), when i grew up(i did forgot about the movie), i was
searching for a film like this, i just couldn't remember the name of it
or who's playing in. I found it again by mistake, and had a deja-vu, i
was like, hmm I'm pretty sure i saw this movie(after watching the
trailer), first thing what came in my head was the name of my father
when i looked at the trailer, then i knew it, its the movie that i
couldn't understand when i was little. I saw it, now understood it, and
began to laugh for a bit cause i remembered how my father tried to
explain me and i didn't understood it. This movie will be always nr1
for me, and I'm pretty sure out there are many others who things the
same. Respect and Love for this "Golden Movie".

******
4 July 2015
9
Great movie i have ever seen. When i was see this 1st seen of this
movie i really excited to watch movie. From the starting of the film
movie goes bigger and bigger so all you enjoy this movie so please
watch this movie thank you. Great movie i have ever seen. When i was
see this 1st seen of this movie i really excited to watch movie. From
the starting of the film movie goes bigger and bigger so all you enjoy
this movie so please watch this movie thank you. Great movie i have
ever seen. When i was see this 1st seen of this movie i really excited
to watch movie. From the starting of the film movie goes bigger and
bigger so all you enjoy this movie so please watch this movie thank
you.

******
21 June 2015
10
I would simply regard this movie as the most enjoyable, re-watch- able,
satisfying yet not without its own sadness movie of all time.The small hints to philosophies and subtle humour is what makes it
great every time you watch it. This is a movie that everyone has to see. We in life deal with our own
struggles and unfairness. While here we get the amazing effect that
justice does happen with enough perseverance. Freedom is a fundamental right to all people and atonement is to be
found for crimes committed. There comes a point in all prisoners lives
where they are truly sorry for their crimes. This is not the main line
of this movie but the idea comes across very well. truth will come out
and you may find a time where there will be honourable people listening
to what we have to say, even if that honour comes out after a sentence
is served. Highly recommended for all ages. Any person can learn something from
this.

******
21 June 2015
10
i was skeptic at first, cause i don't really like these kind of movies,
but i had to give it a try, because of the #1 thing. believe it or not,
it took me 3 months, to finally watch it, and my exact thoughts were
just get it over with, and i did. and let me just say this changed my
whole perspective about these kind of movies, It was the day that i
decided to go throw the IMDb Top 250 list, and that was the best
decisions i ever made. but this is a review, i have to talk about how i
feel about the movie, and if it wasn't so obvious, i simply loved it, i
don't have anything to say about the plot and all that shenanigans,
this movie is worth your time and your money if you're that kind of
person.

******
20 June 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption and The Pursuit of Happiness are the two best
all-time motivational movies I have ever seen. Basicaly I am a guy, who
does not judge movies with it's technical merits. I have read that "The
Godfather" or this is the best movie ever made. But according to me,
Godfather may have the best technique or be the most influential motion
pictures ever made, but not the best. For me, The best movies are the
ones that touches my soul. It takes a movie like The Shawshank
Redemption or The Pursuit Of Happiness to touch the soul.I have never seen such an beautiful, amazing and inspirational film as
well. This movie truly encloses most of the Human qualities such as-
friendship, hardship, hope and dreams. The one thing which makes it
greatest than other is that this movie is so great that it moves you,
it gives you HOPE. Even though the circumstances among the characters
in the movie and the viewers in real life are quite different but you
still don't feel that far removed from what the characters in this
movie are going through.Sir Darabont shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios
and production facilities. These artists has shown their capability to
produce a great master piece of art; actually real art that inspires
people to look at the deeper aspects of their life and the world around
themselves. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much- needed breath of
fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of film. It proves
that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and still bless us
with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.

******
19 June 2015
8
This movie was great, and well worth watching. This is my first review
and I just watched the film for a fourth time now, just to write this
and I can say as much that story and acting pulled me in and gave me
some form of escape from reality just as the first time.TSR can have pretty dark at moments at times, but in truth I think its
a story about hope and one mans desperation for it.I'd like to bring attention especially to the quality of the acting in
most films there are times when we see or hear something in a way that
we don't believe and it disturbs the false reality a film is supposed
to project, but Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman so effortlessly pull it
off that not once did I falter in my belief that I was watching the
story and life of Andy Dufresene and Ellis "Red" Redding. that is of course till the screen went dark and the credits rolled.

******
18 June 2015
10
This is surely in top 10 of the movies I've watched. I find almost
unbelievable how people can put themselves together in jail and be even
more productive than outside the jail, opposite of the expectations.
This topic is really interesting, when people are left with nothing but
communication with each other and it makes them stronger and give them
hope to live the next day. Hope is good, as Andy would say... Filled
with phrases to remember, it strongly contributes to the quality and
impression of the movie. Robbins and Freeman fantastic, as always. I'm
not surprised this is on top of IMDb ranking list, it's a masterpiece.
I wouldn't feel sorry watching it several times, it's totally worth it.

******
18 June 2015
10
The movie which impressed me to watch dramatic movies a lot.It felt good when the hero escaped from the prison because he never was
meant to be inside. But the real part which made me feel very
intriguing was to think how much one should have been thinking about
freedom that he could make his path out of the prison with just using a
rock hammer over so many years.I've even let my parrot to fly high out of his cage who had always been
trying to open his cage. TRUE STORY!!!FREEDOM matters!!!Morgan Freeman. He's a man beyond my judgement skills!!!

******
18 June 2015
9
The Shawshank Redemption is hands down one for the history books. This
movie is based on the friendship of two people (Tim Robbins & Morgan
Freeman) in prison.If for some reason you are unfamiliar with this movie I'll give you a
basic run-down.A guy is accused of murdering his wife and boyfriend she was cheating
on him with. He is sent to jail and makes friends with one guy(Morgan
Freeman) he does well and goes in charge of the library and eventually
moves to the prison managers bank accountant. A few guys give him
trouble and the rest is for you to find out.This film is definitely a must see. (13 years+)9/10- For incredible prison realism, plot line, movie ending.+IMDB no1. Rated movie of all time

******
17 June 2015
7
Print Page It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a
prison, but "The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our
feelings because it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us
vicarious experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank"
slows down and looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to
include us in the story of men who have formed a community behind bars.
It is deeper than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on
friendship and hope.Interesting that although the hero of the film is the convicted former
banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is never seen from his
point of view. The film's opening scene shows him being given two life
sentences for the murder of his wife and her lover, and then we move,
permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and
particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman). It is his
voice remembering the first time he saw Andy ("looked like a stiff
breeze would blow him over"), and predicting, wrongly, that he wouldn't
make it in prison.

******
16 June 2015
9
prison can not make you away from loving life and freedom you have to
seek it even if you will escape you cell ....bright fantastic
movieprison can not make you away from loving life and freedom you have
to seek it even if you will escape you cell ....bright fantastic
movieprison can not make you away from loving life and freedom you have
to seek it even if you will escape you cell ....bright fantastic
movieprison can not make you away from loving life and freedom you have
to seek it even if you will escape you cell ....bright fantastic
movieprison can not make you away from loving life and freedom you have
to seek it even if you will escape you cell ....bright fantastic
movieprison can not make you away from loving life and freedom you have
to seek it even if you will escape you cell ....bright fantastic
movieprison can not make you away from loving life and freedom you have
to seek it even if you will escape you cell ....bright fantastic movie

******
14 June 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a timeless classic that is compelling
material for any adult-age generation.Andy Dufresne is a great leader who's management style is to lead by
example. He is the voice of reason in a world of chaos, the source of
strength against unsurmountable adversity, the genius among the wicked
and witty.Frank Darabont is nothing short of brilliant in his execution of a
perfect screenplay, which is eclipsed only by flawless directing and
unbeatable casting and acting talent.It doesn't get better than this.

******
14 June 2015
10
What more can be said about this movie? There is a reason that it is
number one on IMDb...a Website that is a database of every movie ever
made...and it is still number 1.When this comes on, no matter what time of the day, I know that I will
be sitting and watching til the end. Great actors--I love Robbins and
Freeman in this and the supporting actors are just as good , great
story--(taken from a great short story)Even after reading the book the
story is still exciting to watch unfold on the screen, and just
amazingly filmed from start to finish! This is one of my number 1 movies as well!!!

******
12 June 2015
10
This is by far the best film I have ever had the pleasure of seeing. It
is a story that consists of friendship, love, hope, and suspense. The
entire premise and sub plot is essential and deliberate in making this
movie the best. I've cried every time and will continue to the next
time I see it. Some scenes bring tears, others are just there to give
it better context. It has a great plot twist as well as a climax,
neither will be seen coming if you pay attention. My favorite scene is
towards the end once Andy has left and Red is struggling with his
absence. During his wonderful narration, Red throws excuses to why he
is sad, in the end he just misses his friend. Give it a chance, take
the time to experience yet enjoy it! I have seen over 700 movies and
counting, this kills them all.

******
11 June 2015
9
It is a strange comment to make about a film set inside a prison, but
"The Shawshank Redemption" creates a warm hold on our feelings because
it makes us a member of a family. Many movies offer us vicarious
experiences and quick, superficial emotions. "Shawshank" slows down and
looks. It uses the narrator's calm, observant voice to include us in
the story of men who have formed a community behind bars. It is deeper
than most films; about continuity in a lifetime, based on friendship
and hope.Interesting that although the hero of the film is the convicted former
banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), the action is never seen from his
point of view. The film's opening scene shows him being given two life
sentences for the murder of his wife and her lover, and then we move,
permanently, to a point of view representing the prison population and
particularly the lifer Ellis 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman). It is his
voice remembering the first time he saw Andy ("looked like a stiff
breeze would blow him over"), and predicting, wrongly, that he wouldn't
make it in prison.

******
11 June 2015
10
I have to agree totally with Wesley S. Walker from Kentucky. When he
wrote back in 2002, Can Hollywood, usually creating things for
entertainment purposes only, create art? To create something of this
nature, a director must approach it in a most meticulous manner, due to
the delicacy of the process. Such a daunting task requires an extremely
capable artist with an undeniable managerial capacity and an acutely
developed awareness of each element of art in their films, the most
prominent; music, visuals, script, and acting. These elements, each
equally important, must succeed independently, yet still form a
harmonious union, because this mixture determines the fate of the
artist's opus. Though already well known amongst his colleagues for his
notable skills at writing and directing, Frank Darabont emerges with
his feature film directorial debut, The Shawshank Redemption. Proving
himself already a master of the craft, Darabont managed to create one
of the most recognizable independent releases in the history of
Hollywood. The Shawshank Redemption defines a genre, defies the odds,
compels the emotions, and brings an era of artistically influential
films back to Hollywood.The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for
the murder of his wife and her lover. After a quick conviction, Andy
finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope
of parole. He exists in this prison only in appearance, keeping his
mind free from the drab walls around him. His ability to do this
results in the gaining of respect from his fellow inmates, but most of
all from Ellis Redding. Ellis, commonly referred to as Red, finds
gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within the drab walls of
Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare to the confines
of prison. Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope causes Red to
take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him. Andy proves to
Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.By creating the film's firm foundation, the meticulously chiseled
screenplay paved the way for this film's success. Frank Darabont
outdoes himself with the phenomenal adaptation of Stephen King's
equally noteworthy novella, Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. In
this novella, King demonstrates that he can break free from the genre
he dominates and still create a marvelous piece of modern literature.
Though the film mirrors the novella in many ways, Darabont illustrates
a focused objective of improving upon the areas where the novella came
up short, resulting in one of the best book to film transitions ever.While maintaining some of the poetic and moving dialogue of the
novella, Darabont also proves that a film's score can generate a great
deal of emotional response from its audience, as dialogue does. He
employs the cunning Thomas Newman, son of the legendary Hollywood
composer, Alfred Newman. Darabont shows recognition for the film's
needs by employing Newman, who makes the gentle piano chords whisper
softly to the viewer, as if a part of the scripted dialogue. Newman
lends himself to individualism and tends to drive more towards the
unique in the realm of score composition. His effort in Shawshank did
not go unnoticed, as his score received an Oscar nomination in 1995.
While unique and independent, Newman's score never once intrudes on
your concentration or distracts from the film.With work from vast array of talented scene designers, costume
designers, composers, cinematographers, and various other Hollywood
artists, the cast of The Shawshank Redemption had a strong foundation
to work with. The marvelous cast of this film will dazzle you with some
of the most convincing performances you will witness in a film. While
both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman shine as Andy and Red,
respectively, the true spectacle of acting lies within the plethora of
amazing supporting actors who easily disappear into their roles. Most
noticeable of these, the veteran film star James Whitmore, who portrays
the elderly Brooks Hatlen. Brooks, a man incarcerated for an
unmentioned crime for so long that he finds himself attached to the
Shawshank and the daily life he has lead. Each of these actors show a
true dedication to their art, and a focused purpose in their
motivations, creating a convincing setting that never once caters to
anything unbelievable.With all of the aesthetic touches and attention to cinematic detail,
the most beautiful part of the film lies within its thematic material,
such as its focus on the human desires for the most abstract concepts,
like hope and freedom. These themes, which concern things the human
spirit undoubtedly yearns for, seem so intricately woven into the plot
that it easily draws its audience in to its story. Though full of
hardened criminals, your heart will go out to these men as they display
the most basic of human emotions, and deliver some of the most quotable
lines in a film to date. Like a great novel, this film manages to
succeed at greater things than simply entertaining an audience.
Darabont tells his story most masterfully, illustrating principles and
inspiring his audience to think. He leaves us a poignant film with a
powerful message of hope, and redemption, something we all seek.This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared
it long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability. Darabont
shows us that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and
production facilities. These artists show their capability to produce
art; real art that inspires you to look at the deeper aspects of life
and the world around you. The Shawshank Redemption delivers much-
needed breath of fresh air for anyone who realizes the capability of
film. It proves that masters of the craft still live on this earth, and
still bless us with timeless masterpieces that we will never forget.

******
11 June 2015
9
In 1946, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), a young and successful banker,
has its radically changed life to be put to life in prison for a crime
he never committed: the murder of his wife and her lover. So he is sent
to a prison that is the nightmare of any detainee: Shawshank State
Penitentiary. Andy will be presented to Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) -
the corrupt and cruel prison director, and the captain Byron Hadley
(Clancy Brown) - which treats the prisoners like animals. Andy
befriends Ellis Boyd Redding (Morgan Freeman), a prisoner who is
serving 20 years and controls the black market in prison. It's a film
about friendship, with great acting, showing that friendship can emerge
in the most unexpected places.

******
23 May 2015
6
There are much much better movies than this in the universe who can be
considered at that position. I saw this movie only because it was at
No.1. And truly and very honestly i believe that it is not the right
place for this. I found that even the first seasons of Prison Break are
much much much better than this movie, and if all four seasons are
considered, than this movie wont' stand anywhere near it in excellence,
direction, story and almost everything. I think it should be somewhere
above 200 or even if it is not in the top 250 list, no problem. And the
reviews people are giving for this movie, i am totally surprised, how
can they give 10 stars to it...! i mean it matters to me so much.. i
watch 80% of the movies after getting its rating from IMDb which should
be above 6.5 to qualify for my viewing. So people don't' waste your
stars just because its on the top of IMDb 250 movies, its a good movie
but not the best, the top position is for the best. Hope to see this
one removed from there soon.

******
23 April 2015
10
In 1947 Andy Dufresne is jailed for life for the murder of his wife and
her lover. He is sent to Shawshank Prison where he tells his fellow
inmates he is innocent but as fellow inmate 'Red' says; everybody in
Shawshank is innocent. Red has already served ten years and is the guy
to see if you want something smuggled into the prison. Andy asks for
two things; a small rock hammer and Rita Hayworth! Soon after Red
provides him with one rock hammer and a large poster featuring Rita
Hayworth. Life in Shawshank is not easy; the guards are brutal and some
of the inmates are worse. Andy survives though and things get better
when he is able to help the meanest of the guards avoid paying tax on
an inheritance; soon he is acting as accountant to the whole prison and
helping the corrupt warden squirrel away large sums of money earned by
prison labour. He is able to use this position to improve the life of
prisoners too; a few beers for a work party, improvements to the prison
library and education for some inmates. All the time Andy professes his
innocence then one day after he has spent almost twenty years behind
bars a young man comes to Shawshank; the man tells the story of how a
cellmate at a previous prison claimed to have murdered a man and the
woman he was with leaving her banker husband to take the blame. Andy
believes this may finally get him out of prison but there is no way the
warden will let him go; he is too useful and he knows too much that
won't stop Andy though.This film, based on a Stephen King short story, is rightfully
considered a classic. There are no scenes that felt unnecessary from
start to finish the story moves at a good pace. We see both the good
and the bad inside the prison; there are scenes of brutality but also
scenes of joy such as watching the prisoners enjoy the simple pleasure
of having a cold beer of a scorching day it is details like this that
make the film special. There is also the joy of seeing that Andy will
not break and his greatest triumph coming just as it looks as if he has
finally reached breaking point. The cast does a great job; Tim Robbins
is great as Andy and the always reliable Morgan Freeman is on top form
as Red; theirs is one of the great portrayals of a screen friendship.
It isn't just the likable characters who are well acted though; Bob
Gunton is subtly unpleasant as the hypocritical Warden; quoting
scripture one minute profiteering, and much worse, the next; Clancy
Brown is also great as the truly unpleasant Captain Hadley; the senior
guard who brutalises the inmates. After the suffering inside the finale
chapter where we see Andy's escape and revenge makes this a feel-good
movie despite what we've seen before. This is definitely a must see
film.

******
14 March 2015
10
I just want to say I love your post. This information is useful to me
and you made it interesting to read. Really good job!Italy is a wonderful place, and if you are planning to go to the place
this vacation, you cannot miss out Umbria, the green heart of the city.
For all the travelers looking for an affordable and comfortable
accommodation option here, plenty of alternatives are available that
cater to the need of affordability and comfort.Casa Rosa is the hub for budget travelers in Europe and your search for
cheap accommodation ends at its self-catering apartments near Assisi.
If you are a nature lover and fond of home cooked food, this is just a
right destination to halt. Casa Rosa is situated in the green hills of
Umbria and is an economical alternative to luxury hotels. Look ahead for a fulfilling and peaceful stay in the city as you are
not going to feel home sick here because of its homelike environment.
These are fully furnished apartments that are backed by the high-end
security and are luxurious and beautiful. The best thing is that you get access to all the modern amenities from
an internet connection, cable connection, en suite bath, microwave,
refrigerator to kitchen accessories. The ease of cooking one's own food
offers complete flexibility to the travelers regarding their dietary
requirements. People who are under strict medical, dietary supervision
or is not comfortable with the idea of eating outside, even during
their trip, self-catering apartments of Casa Rosa are just perfect for
them for an impasse.Every Umbria Self Catering apartment has its own terrace and balcony
that offers a panoramic view of the nature's symmetry. The shared
swimming pool by all the apartments is one of the major highlights of
the place that is bordered on one side by cherry tree, herbs, and
lavender and the other hand has a wide terrace that offers the
opportunity to all the travelers for relaxing and sunbathing.So, if you are planning a special holiday this year, no other place can
outplay the charms of staying in the self-catered apartments of Casa
Rosa. For complete details, visit http://www.casa-rosa.it/

******
29 January 2015
7
Movie is good to watch. But I wonder how did it make to no.1 position
on 250..!! Lots of better movies are there..!! And also it copies some
scenes form "Escape from Alcatraz (1979)"..!!that i would give 8/10
Again am telling you that movie's climax is good..!!People already watched this movie made their ratings 10. Why all the
people has made it a 10, even it hasn't any specialty..!! The movie is
just an o.k movie..!! it doesn't deserve even in top 100..!!The performances are truly above average but I think that the
characters are not near as memorable.I wrote this comment only to
encourage people to do the ratings wise fully .Many very good movies
are under rated..!!please make your sense..!!

******
26 December 2014
10
It contains everything important: - tension - good story - twists -
good acting It's one of those movies, you'll think about long times and
wont forget. This movie shows us, that we don't always need explosions
and special effects. There are just some prisoners talking about life
and freedom. And its still exciting and heartbreaking. One of the
reasons I became a member of this site, was to rate THIS movie. It's my
favorites and I recommend it to everybody. An other reason why this
film is so grate, is that the viewer only looks from the outside. He is
as surprised as the other prisoners itself. But at the end everything
makes sense. It's like a perfect puzzle.

******
26 December 2014
10
The plot is very nice. I have seen a very few movies with such a strong
plot. The recent being "Boyhood (2014)." Tim Robbins was very nice at
acting (9/10) and Morgan's narration was more than perfect (10/10). I
always love to see the movie again and again due to perfect story line,
extra focused direction, perfect camera work, and exceptional acting.
By focusing on the main story line, Frank Darabont has tried his way
best to direct the movie from every possible angle to give every scene
a real look and he successfully did it. I would love to see Mr. Tim
Robbins and Mr. Morgan Freeman to be cast for another sequel of this
movie with Shawshank Redemption 2, with another strong story line and
more suspense/thrill.

******
26 December 2014
10
When I was studying in B. Tech first year I started watching movies. I
watched so many movies. After watching a movie "TROY" i said to myself
that this is my best movie. Then I saw "Titanic" i said this is my best
movie. After sometime i saw "Braveheart" then again i said now this is
my best movie. But when i saw "The Shawshank Redemption" i said to
myself that this is my best movie. Till yet i didn't found the
replacement of this movie. This movie gives so much lessons for life to
live. This movie never bored me while watching. I have seen this movie
5 times till yet. The best part of this movie is to fight with the
situations. There will be always unfavorable conditions in life and you
will meat bad people but you have to handle it.

******
26 December 2014
2
In fairy tales characters are straightforward good or evil, so that the
audience does not get confused. Shawshank is the sort of prison where
convicts are "good" and guards are "evil", so that you know immediately
who to root for.The main characters in the movie are Andy and Red, respectively played
by Robbins and Freeman. Robbins is an actor with a natural creepiness
that cannot be neutralized even by the most positive role. We are
supposed to root for Andy, but the ambiguity about his guilt is kept
going two thirds into the movie and does not help to establish him as a
sympathetic character. Freeman is by now a stand-in for God. He conveys
gravitas and righteousness, even to a murderer. He deserves a happy
ending against all odds.The story unfolds extremely slowly, with the usual bonding and strife
among inmates and abusive guards stirring the mix. The only plot twist
is an absurd conversation between Andy and the prison's warden. In
possession of vital information about his case, allegedly clever Andy
chooses to share it with the evil warden, rather than with his lawyer.
This is clearly an idiotic decision, but so far looks like nobody
noticed.However, the simple tale of a man convicted for a double murder, taking
place almost exclusively within the prison walls is hardly material for
a masterpiece. Even more so when based on a Stephen King novel. King
may be massively famous, but subtle he is not.I guess the reasons for the huge popularity of this movie lies exactly
in its simple structure and exploitation of basic emotions and human
qualities such as endurance, hope, faith and integrity.The main message of a film is an even more basic "Everything is going
to be alright". That is, if you consider decades spent in prison as a
metaphor for life.

******
25 December 2014
10
For a film to make you feel so emotionally attached to alleged
criminals, it must be something special. Special is exactly the word
for The Shawshank Redemption. A film so captivating and emotionally
driven, it will stay with you for longer than you can imagine. The
Stoic Theme carries the film in no way done before in the history of
cinema, mixing both ingredients of film and music it provides a
masterpiece. Compelling me to learn it on piano, to much degree of
failure. The characters - beautiful. The Visuals - stunning. I do not
see one flaw in this film, and I hope that no one else does. This movie
is not cinema, it is an experience.

******
25 December 2014
10
Well, it's out to be said although many have said it already, but this
movies is one of the best movies that humans ever conceived. I do not
think this movie is about a conman escaping or even about finding
redemption in a prison cell in the common way. I think that this movie
is about fighting for what's right in the face of adversity and
acknowledging what you really are deep down inside. Many of the inmates
knew that deep down inside they were free men, even while surrounded by
high trapping walls. Maybe that's what kept them living day after
another. All in all, it's a great movie that surpassed and overshadowed
many other ones.

******
24 December 2014
10
The idea of this film is to convey the state of solitude that man is,
it's like the myth of Sisyphus which the Greeks and then Camus
highlighted in his works. I must say that the character Andy Dufresne
develops patience achievement, because with patience and look for the
right time, the freedom that comes slowly after years in his master
plan is won.Such feelings which we know must bend to make the right decisions and
it is there that this film achieves an impeccable staging, making
paraphrase of life itself.Speaks also of how one should live their best under the conditions, and
evidently speaks about sacrifice because often we lose our status quo
to achieve a goal or purpose.In conclusion, it is a poetic film a delicacy of philosophical study of
easy digestion.

******
22 December 2014
10
The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that would move you to tears. I
Know many people would agree with me when i say that this is one of the
the best movies ever made and you would too once you see it.It mainly
revolves around. It was nominated for 7 Oscars and 1 golden globe. I'm
a bit sad that it didn't win any Oscars, cause it deserved at least one
,for best picture.The story focuses on Andy a man who was convicted for
murdering his wife and his wife's lover. He was imprisoned in Shawshank
prison, where he met Red. The story revolves around Andy and Red
increasing their friendship and Andy doing all sorts of stuff in
changing the prison.If it was up to me, I'd give it a 9.8 rating.

******
21 December 2014
10
It's hard to beat a classic, and this film ticks all the boxes of a
classic box office hit. With a deep underlying moral, as well as a hard
hitting narrative that makes you question how good a person you truly
are, this film makes you think about life itself, and the security and
contentment we all seem to fall into the trap of.Freeman gives his all time best performance, with Tim Robbins'
character Dufresne making you question your own true identity, and
where do our morals lie?Few films have ever been made with such subtext, and yet it is so
blindingly brilliant how Darabont put together King's novel in such a
way that an audience would have to be made of pure stone to not shed a
tear during multiple poignant scenes.All in all, this film is a truly magnificent masterpiece, faultless
from the get go. If you have a film 'to-do' list, I advise you to place
this at the very start, as there is not a single flaw.

******
21 December 2014
10
Best Movie Ever!!!! Morgan Freeman's Best Movie. Superb Voice and
awesome performance. His voice and dialogues in this movie are amazing.
My favorite movie of all time. Couldn't ask much. A thrill for movie
lovers. Wonderful story and screen play. Couldn't take the eyes for a
sec. Absolute treat to watch this movie. Also, a Superb Direction and
What a climax... Tim Robbins performance was also absolutely
wonderful......It was a thrill to watch Must Watch Movie.... You will
Definitely get goose bumps at the end!!! All the characters were
amazing Deserves to be #1 of all time. Enough said!!! If you didn't
watch it already...........Watch it!!! If watched, then surely you will
watch it again and again.

******
20 December 2014
10
The thing is this film is similar to Forrest Gump in that it is
narrated by someone and it takes place over 30 years. There are also
historical events that are mentioned in both films. The difference was
that Gump opened like gangbusters and was packed weeks into its run
while Shawshank did not. Roger is right, it needed to be left in
theaters and build on word of mouth and then it would've played a year.
Columbia, a big studio, wasn't interested, which is a shame. Seeing
this film again recently I couldn't stop watching because you see what
prison life is like and how it operates and takes lives from people
like Brooks and Red, who become institutionalized. It is sad when films
can't seem to build word of mouth and even in today's climate, they
don't play many weeks.

******
20 December 2014
10
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff.Red (Morgan Freeman)and Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) are amazing actors
that make this movie one of the best of all time. Central to the film's
success is a riveting, unfussy performance from Robbins. Freeman has
the showier role, allowing him a grace and dignity that come naturally.
Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont.

******
10 December 2014
10
This movie is simply powerful. Just thinking about the fact that this
was based on a short story by Steven King was surprising. I'd never
suspect THIS based off of his work. I don't want to waste time on
talking about how much this movie moved me, but once you watch this
brilliant movie, you will see why I am praising it so much. This movie
contains: Fantastic Directing, Brilliant Story Telling, Superb Acting,
Great Cinematography, Music That Fits the Mood, and the last item on
this list is... Everything You Want in a Movie. I am NOT going to tell
you about this movie, I would want you to watch it your self, and
witness all of this film has to offer you. This movie inspired me so
much and is a perfect example to other movies how to make a PERFECT
movie.

******
9 December 2014
9
This may not be the best movie ever made in the history of cinema, but
it certainly has its merits and is definitely worth a watch. For one thing, Shawshank is a fresh take on the Prison genre and it
introduces a bit of color in the 90s. Ironically, this happened to hit
the Oscars the same year as Forest Gump and Pulp Fiction, which also
featured black-white protagonist pairings. Even better, this is one of the best, if not THE best film adaption of
a Stephen King work. I was genuinely pleased with the cinematic
liberties taken to make a story that was more than simply an adaption
of a short story. In fact, this could be an example of a movie that is
better than the source material.

******
9 December 2014
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" is one of the movies that I saw on the big
screen in my teens; someone else bought me the ticket because of the
age restriction. To me, this film, is still the most entertaining,
thought- provoking dramas with a spiritual escape.The cast was superb. Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins). A banker convicted of
killing his wife and her lover, Dufresne is shy and withdrawn when he
first arrives in the prison. It's not really clear at first whether he
actually did commit the murders: Dufresne protests his innocence in
court, but all the evidence points to him. In this movie you will learn
about patience and hope. You will learn that if people are dishonest,
that it will catch up with you someday.Living in South Africa we had our own icon, Nelson Mandela. He was also
imprisoned for 27 years, and after his release, people thought that our
country would be thrown into a civil war. But Tata Mandela never held
any grudges against his captors and he became the first democratic
President of South Africa.This film is moving, warm and rewarding.

******
2 November 2014
4
Currently I am studying Film Critics at university and I was suggest to
watch and write a review on The Shawshrank Redemption. The film is
about Andy told by Red, Andy's good friend at the prison called
"Shawshrank". I must say that I'm pretty positive about this movie at
the beginning because of Morgan Freeman. My expectation wasn't fail but
i felt a little bored at the end. However, i thought the plot was going
to be more complicated than this. The movie gives a lot of survival
feeling though which makes me quite into the movie. Besides, the whole
plot was very touching especially for the scene that Brook commit
suicide. It seems like the guys who went in there can never find
happiness when they came out. I believe this movie gives out motivation
to be strong and really learn what living is really. It shows mood
incredibly well for the depressed part but sometimes I find the story
goes very slowly so I get bored.

******
2 November 2014
5
First off, films REALLY DO have the tendency to be overrated or
underrated these days. And this film is no exception. Simple fact, I'm
not a fan at all of Stephen King or his work, or the films that are
BASED off his work. Just too dark, too controversial, too creepy, too
horrendous, too controversial, and too uncomfortable to sit through.Is this really one of the 10 best films of all time? Shawshank is not a
downright bad movie but it has some severe flaws and I have no clue how
everyone chooses to overlook them. The problem I have with it is how it
absolutely oversimplifies everything. Shawshank for the most part
focuses on exploring the idea of "Hope" (one of the most overused ideas
in any prison movie), but in order to do so, it treats everything as
black or white with no middle ground. I will say that "The Shawshank
Redemption" is not an "awful" film. This isn't a poorly made film with
more crude humor than storyline. One of the positives of the film lies
in the IMAGERY. The shot of all the prisoners in the prison yard
looking up to the heavens as music plays is an amazing shot, one of the
most memorable shots I've ever seen.Shawshank was really hard to watch; with all the violence and swearing,
I don't think it does the story justice. I understand this film was
nominated for Best Picture, and I've heard people whine, left and
right, that Forrest Gump did, and Shawshank didn't. Well, the way I see
it, I really don't mind. I don't like how this film seems to use the
name of God, or Jesus, as a bad thing, used by the world's biggest
hypocrites in Shawshank (ie. the Warden); it's one of the reasons why I
like Forrest Gump better so much; there isn't much violence, hardly any
swearing, and even treats & talks the name of the Lord in a good way.The villain of the film, Warden Norton, is an incredibly cartoonish,
two dimensional bad guy. He and Cal from Titanic could have a
"pure-evil-for-the-sake-of-being-pure-evil" standoff. Aside from greed,
we have no idea what made him who he was.I see that actors William Sadler and Jeffrey DeMunn are well known for
being in this flick, though a much better film that they both star in
is "Rocketman" (1997), a wild, slap-happy family-friendly comedy.
Please do check it out sometime!! And I don't even like hearing Morgan
Freeman curse at all. "Driving Miss Daisy" is a much better performance
of his, and is a great way for people to be introduced to him, growing
up (or maybe even "Evan Almighty" is a good one, too). Tim Robbins, I
guess was okay. Though he was also bizarrely in "Howard the Duck"; it
doesn't have anything to do with it, I know - it's queer to see how far
he's come. And it sure is strange the head guard, who is often so prone
to violence & swearing is the one who voiced Mr. Krabs in Spongebob
Squarepants. Ar-Ar-Ar-Ar! Though to be fair, the escape scene is really
where things get interesting, how everything comes together, and the
ending definitely is pretty sweet - kinda makes you wish you could see
the ending go on from there.But in the end, I'm quite glad I didn't grow up with this film -
because, sadly like many others, it might have brainwashed,
badly-influenced, or manipulated me to what "reality is supposed to be
like" in such a subversive & biased way.I never had any friends that ever "owned" or ever "recommended" this
film, because likely they feel the same way. One other thing that subtly bothered me was, if this story takes place
over 20 years in prison... why doesn't anybody seem to AGE??? What
happened to the Makeup Department??Though I don't entirely hate this film - it's got likable actors, good
acting, cool character development (i guess), great camera work, decent
music, some good effort, and a feel-good ended scene - but it's really
overwhelmed by so much bad, it almost makes the good stuff non-existent
or even seem "sugar-coated".IMO, Groundhog Day is a much better film worth to be nominated for
Oscar and even considered one of the "greatest films ever", not this
nor "the Godfather".5/10 PS: Want a better film from 1994??? Go watch either "Iron Will",
"Angels In The Outfield," "The Jungle Book," "The Swan Princess", "A
Troll In Central Park", "Speed", "The Little Rascals", "True Lies",
"The Santa Clause", or even "Forrest Gump." PS 2: "Pulp Fiction" should not even have been NOMINATED that same year
for a "Best Picture" Oscar, being an overrated worthless pile of
nothing - it should've been the Lion King nominated! Pulp Fiction can
go off and die.

******
10 October 2014
10
So why am I posting a review now, pity me because I just acknowledge
this film a while from my film class. As the same as other review I was
moved by this film, this movie affects me strongly that even I watch it
over and over again. I've always have the impression of the first time
seen.The best thing is you have to prepare to be moved by the hopes that
emerged in this story, no special effects or tricks. This is just plain
simple and impressive by its owns way portraits the very common life of
men. In such despair , its amazing that when you watch this movie you
can taste the freedom. The strong power of hope and determination will
blow your mind.So no doubt this is the best film I've ever seen, as far as my concern
there is no minor things that will stop me from rating it 10.

******
10 October 2014
10
I have seen the movie several time and could watch it many more Tim
Robins and Morgan Freeman are two of my favorite actors.This is a great movie and I feel is a must see.Everyone should have a copy in their collection.I really don't know how to make this 10 lines other than to keep saying
its great and a must see over and over what more do you need to know?I love it and will watch it again and again.I hope everyone takes the time to see this movie it says a lot about
how people become institutionalized after being incarcerated for long
periods of time.

******
7 October 2014
10
Must watch movie.... Ultimate screenplay...TIM Robins superb.. A masterpiece from Frank Darabont ... this
moviemade ma day....... the one of the most intelligent movie ever
saw.. It is an extraordinary motion that people "will" be talking about
in 50 or 100 years. Stephen King"s novel adaption best movie... Stephen
King's story is brought to the screen with great elegance and
excitement. It tells a lesson about life. It's a poignant story about
hope. Hope gets me.... It's also a story for freedom. Freedom from
isolation, from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are
majestic in their performances.

******
3 October 2014
10
So is this the best of all time? For me personally no, but its def in
the top 20, and I think this is probably true for most people. It is
the most consistent highly rated movie, that's why it is the best. The
friendship between the two main chars is the star of the movie. You
will probably like this movie regardless of what age you are or your
typical movie preference. Pretty awesome writing. This also shows that
you don't need to spend 200m to make a good quality film, just get a
good story, good actors and good screen writing. There is a huge trend
in Hollywood now that you gotta spend huge to get a good return, they
can learn a lot from The ShawShank Redemption

******
15 September 2014
10
This is simply one of the best movies I've seen in my whole life. It
has got everything, from drama to some subtle comedy and every scene
contains its own cliffhanger - once you start watching, you cannot stop
until you've watched the whole movie. And once you've watched the movie
once, you will want to see it again and yet again, there is no point in
time this movie will bore you.Its raw genius, from the actors and to the director - everybody did an
exceptional job to give this movie true character. No movie will ever
surpass this movie as the best movie of all times. From the plot, one can draw some conclusions about whats going to
happen, but that is irrelevant, to just follow through the story and to
be able to enjoy whats being displayed is the greatest thing one can
do.

******
14 September 2014
9
This is an outstanding movie from beginning to end. The cast was picked
with excellence and the characters were made so that the audience would
care about them. Even though the middle of the story was a bit slow, it
began to drag when it started building up the plot for the climax in
the middle. Stephen King does not usually write novels as a drama and
when he does do it, it is critically acclaimed. It is amazing how much
though was put into making this story, with the back tracking to reveal
major plot points and how this happened. Morgan Freeman's narration is
excellent in this movie too, his character is one you won't forget
because of how strong his performance is. Over all this is a fantastic
movie. If you haven't see this yet I recommend you do, this movie is
one you won't want to forget.

******
13 September 2014
9
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.

******
12 September 2014
10
When you reach the end of this masterpiece you can't imagine that you
can surrender,you to fight to the end . Here, battle is not a choice
,you have to fight otherwise you will be defeated even destroyed
completely . In my life ,I think that I haven't seen such quantity of
hope ,this movie made me more motivated to struggle in my life and gave
me the power to face such difficult situations even impossible to solve
or deal with . The whole crew, director, actors, writers,.......etc
have done a great effort to make such magnificent masterpiece to
inspire the people every where and every when . Finally , I hope every
one enjoy the movie and learn the important lesson not to give up ,
never

******
11 September 2014
10
What can I say about this movie that hasn't been said already?This movie has all the elements required to make this a outstanding
film.Great crew, from director to editor and everyone in between. Then of
course you have a great story. No film is great without a great story.
Finally, you simply cannot forget the masters of storytelling. I'm of
course referring to the performers.From opening scene until end credits, this film with draw out of you
ever single human emotion and will leave you applauding for more.Bottom line, you must see this film to see true cinematic greatness.

******
11 September 2014
10
One of the best movies I've ever seen. Only down point if any,I would
say would be the twist at the end which was quite predictable to
me,which it maybe wasn't 20 years back. Other than that,awesome
movie,must watch at least once :) The
acting,direction,script,everything was top notch by the 90s standards.
Bit slow paced initially but then works very well for the movie and
helps the viewer engross entirely with it. Morgan Freeman,as usual was
at his best no doubt,love almost all his movies. One of the best actors
of this time.Go for it if u wanna experience the #1 movie of all time
:)

******
10 September 2014
10
I have to say this gotta be one of the best movie of all time. I love
the story the acting and the emotions, even the directing was great in
this film. It's gonna be hard to have a movie like this complete again
but it will i believe so. Morgan Freeman is so great even from this
movie and everything else he has done throughout his career, i think
it's his calmness that i like about the way he approaches his role in
this and full of emotions inside. I feel like it's a story we can
relate, how we are so used to something and then that's all we know
about and it's hard to change the habit and the way we look at things
and also the struggle of life even most of it in this movie happens
inside a prison. There's so many things i guess i can learn from this
movie, so many messages that we can take and to realize that life is
pretty crazy and beautiful at the same time and we just gotta enjoy
every moment and every seconds we have living in this world. Cause
there's so many people out there who's in a position that have done
some wrong and got locked up in a prison and don't have any more
chances to change their mistakes and also opportunity to start fresh or
new in life. We given chances in life and also free will to choose, so
anyway i believe this movie changed my perception and also gave me
lessons to learn.

******
10 September 2014
10
Central to the film's success is a riveting, unfussy performance from
Robbins. Freeman has the showier role, allowing him a grace and dignity
that come naturally. There are times when The Shawshank Redemption
comes dangerously close to sounding one of those "triumph of the
spirit" notes. But most of it is eloquently restrained. As the uptight
banker, Robbins does some of his subtlest acting to date. As his
hardened but resilient friend, Freeman is simply miraculous, giving the
role so much depth, dignity, and good humor that you feel that you've
known this man forever. If the film is perhaps a little slow in its
middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a
sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final
redemption. Some of "The Shawshank Redemption'' comes across as
outrageously improbable. Yet the film keeps pulling you back with its
sense of striving humanity slowly turning the tables against evil.

******
10 September 2014
10
This is truly one of the best movies ever made! Stephen King is an
amazing writer and this movie reflects his abilities to a T. I cannot
pick a favorite between this and The Green Mile. It could not have
better done!!! The movie was perfectly casted. All of the actors were
superb in their acting. It followed the book rather well, with very few
changes made. If you love Stephen King, you will love this movie. I
love Andy and Red's relationship the most. And it had a perfect ending.
I have told everyone I know to watch this movie at least once, just for
the experience. Everyone I have told to watch it has thanked me for
telling them to, saying they too loved this movie. Even my children
love this movie and will sit through its entirety without complaint.
Absolutely a 10 out of 10!!!!

******
4 September 2014
10
Top250 years will take place in the first place. I think the world's
best film. Excellent script, great players. Red's narration of the
story allows him to speak for all of the prisoners, who sense a
fortitude and integrity in Andy that survives the years. Andy will not
kiss butt. He will not back down. But he is not violent, just
formidably sure of himself. For the warden (Bob Gunton), he is both a
challenge and a resource; Andy knows all about bookkeeping and tax
preparation, and before long he's been moved out of his prison job in
the library and assigned to the warden's office, where he sits behind
an adding machine and keeps tabs on the warden's ill-gotten gains. His
fame spreads, and eventually he's doing the taxes and pension plans for
most of the officials of the local prison system.

******
14 August 2014
9
This film is one of my top 10 films of all-time. I love everything
about it, such as the casting, the performances, the story line etc. If
you haven't seen this, you are really missing out.Don't deprive
yourself of the pleasure of watching such a stellar movie. Go now and
watch this movie if you have never seen it. Perfect casting, amazing
story, emotional performances. Just perfect. There are no words to
describe how good this movie is.This movie is completely amazing,
everything was perfect, and the ending, the way he escaped jail, just
fantastic, original, awesome with great performances, Morgan Freeman
just kicked ass in this film,so I' am very happy with the final result
of this movie.

******
1 July 2014
10
For someone who always thinks they are being wrongly accused of
something, this movie is the ultimate journey of one man's redemption
and triumph over his past. Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman, and the entire
cast are flawless in their performances and this movie hits the head
right on the nose with the social justice politics and policies of the
time period that the movie appeared in. I highly recommend this film to
anyone who loves a good "man vs. nature" story. One of my favorite
scenes is when Timothy plays the opera music in the office. The Italian
arias that the two women sing are incredibly beautiful and speak to the
caged bird that he has become who wants to break free and soar past his
circumstances

******
6 May 2014
9
Obviously agree that it is one of the greats, but it is a bit
over-rated. But,it is a work of art. the actors were terrific. of
course, there is the god of narration, Morgan freeman. it has a great
message and all. has no effects whatsoever, but relies just on the
storyline which is rare these days. it can be emotional for most
people. direction - costumes - intensity - and most of all,there is
hope. It is not on par with godfather 1 and godfather 2 and also there
is Schindler's list. the villain could be better. If this is what
someone says about Shawshank redemption, do not fall for it. And it's
all about perspective. It has a powerful message waiting for you to
recognize. A message of hope.

******
9 April 2014
10
its amazing, if you haven't seen it you have to watch it. The
highly-anticipated second installment in the to the New York Times
best-selling series WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE'S STAR WARS. The best-selling
William Shakespeare's Star Wars strikes back with all-new,
all-Elizabethan, officially-licensed re tellings of Episode V. Return
to the star-crossed galaxy far, far away as the brooding young hero,
power-mad emperor, and jesting droids match wits, struggle for power,
and soliloquize in elegant and impeccable iambic pentameter.
Illustrated with beautifully intricate, Renaissance-style artwork, the
saga of swashbuckling, sword fighting, and romance unfolds like you've
never read it before.

******
3 April 2014
4
It's a exceptional Film. It's between my most well-liked flicks. It
depicts the story of Andy Dufresne, a famed banker who Have a look at
Shawshank for murder of his partner. This Motion picture depicts
friendship of two diverse persons currently proudly possessing many
sights, just how it grows. He was truly intelligent gentleman as he
manufactured his friendship with corrupted Warden though while in the
Jail Yet it Undoubtedly was just one sided. Ultimately, when he escapes
Using the jail, he Typically typically normally takes down the whole
life of Warden and his colleagues. Best correct after few moments, his
Pal Pink also receives from jail and travels to Texas and fulfill his
Great Mate Andy.Normally this Movie was excellent and perhaps it really is the best. It
justifies to be #1. I am pondering how this Film not get Oscar for Most
important motion Image round the calendar twelve months 1994.

******
13 February 2014
9
So this guy really wanted to say when I pulled him out of the TMD and
beat on TV , he did not know the truth. His mother does not know how
much pain he suffered for , was how many crimes . He insists , clinging
to his father 's death . Really, careful thought, we live in the world,
most do not also have experienced this state duffers it? But compared
to what it is we do not fix. I was easily into the drama of the people
, so that it is possible that this actor ( I'm too lazy to check who he
is ) this impression in my mind too deep , perhaps after several of his
ministry let me get out to play this impression on him . But to be
honest, played good.

******
3 February 2014
10
I love this movie and really inspires me when ever i watch it. I love
the camera work and the sound. I also like the casting and the effects
in the movie. I love this movie and really inspires me when ever i
watch it. I love the camera work and the sound. I also like the casting
and the effects in the movie. I love this movie and really inspires me
when ever i watch it. I love the camera work and the sound. I also like
the casting and the effects in the movie. I love this movie and really
inspires me when ever i watch it. I love the camera work and the sound.
I also like the casting and the effects in the movie. I love this movie
and really inspires me when ever i watch it. I love the camera work and
the sound. I also like the casting and the effects in the movie. I love
this movie and really inspires me when ever i watch it. I love the
camera work and the sound. I also like the casting and the effects in
the movie. I love this movie and really inspires me when ever i watch
it. I love the camera work and the sound. I also like the casting and
the effects in the movie. I love this movie and really inspires me when
ever i watch it. I love the camera work and the sound. I also like the
casting and the effects in the movie.

******
27 December 2013
7
This movie is based on the resilience of a guy whom had the chance to
be all along his detention in the same cell, near the outer wall of the
prison. Then, of course, no one thought that a wall made of mud, which
conveniently doesn't make a sound when dug, wouldn't be sufficient to
prevent a detainee, who has nothing else to do, to dig it in to get
out.The rest of the movie is stepping up to be the masterpiece we all know
and love. But this, I can't call it a flaw, but these unlikely premises
really bugged me watching it. I still call it a good movie. But for it
to be THE best film, on this site, is pretty far-fetched.

******
23 November 2013
10
This movie is based on a novella by Stephen King, but don't let that
put you off. It's not a horror film, rather a thumping good ode to
friendship, hope, wit, wiles and wisdom, brimming with crackling
characters and topped with the most twister of twists since The Crying
Game. Found guilty of killing his unfaithful wife and her lover in a
fit of passion, sullen accountant Andy Dufresne (Robbins, casting off
his goof ball image to display more layers than the proverbial onion)
is shipped to the Gothic wind-swept corridors of the Shawshank State
Prison for life. It is here the movie gracefully unfolds. With a
beautifully rounded script, writer/director Darabont conjures up a
spellbinding personal odyssey stretching through the years from 1946 to
1967.

******
28 August 2013
6
I'm not giving a low rating because I'm against whats popular.
Shawshank Redemption is a great film, its actually one my favorites.
The characters are portrayed very well, except for Andy. I know he is
supposed to be an emotionless socially awkward guy who only has one
facial expression. In that case he played his role perfectly but I
don't think its a wise choice to have a... main? Character like that?
I'm not sure if Red was the main character, he is our eyes and ears
so...Either way the film shows cinematic genius and truly amazing story
telling. I enjoyed every second of it, some say certain areas of the
story dragged on too long but hey its prison. Every moment in prison is
dragged along. But I don't know about being the greatest film on IMDb.
I would say Citizen Kane should be number 1. Citizen Kane is so amazing
its actually art. So again loved Shawshank Redemption and I wish more
movies were like it, but I don't know about greatest film of all time.

******
19 August 2013
10
Best movie ever ....Shawshbk redemption.....The big lesson in this film is to wait wait wait until you get the best
opportunity to get rid of any thing u want.......He has much patient to
get rid from the jail..........wow awesome.......when he the rock on
the pipe ...the timing was absolutely right........firstly the light
came then the voice came of the storm when he was running
off.............The acting of a black man (supporting role)(Morgan Freeman) was
actually great......He act better then the main hero (Tim Robbins)....And although I can say about this movie is that you can do every thing
what you want to if you are in right way............Thanks....... regards...

******
19 July 2013
8
It has long been my contention that it is the movie-maker's task to
hold the viewer's attention, not to burden him with his self-indulgent,
difficult-to-follow symbolisms. That having been said, I find it
difficult to find another movie I would recommend more highly than The
Shawshank Redemption. Without any high- adrenaline action sequences or
steamy sex scenes (two sure-fire ways to get the viewer's attention),
this film somehow has the power to make you sit through all 142 minutes
without for a moment getting bored. And I challenge anyone who has seen
it to delete any scene, even any minute, from the final edit. The fact
is, you can't. Because every single scene is an essential element that
contributes to the final result: a masterpiece that captures the drama
of enduring friendship and resiliency of the human spirit more
powerfully than any other film ever made. Even those who normally do
not watch movies with a critical eye will find themselves so drawn into
this experience. I really can't say enough about this film. Suffice it
to say that this is certainly the Greatest Movie Not to Win an Oscar.
(Since Citizen Kane, at least. )Actually, I can forgive the Film Academy for not honoring this film
with the Oscars I firmly believe it deserved. But when the American
Film Institute in 1998 put together their list of The 100 Greatest
Movies of all time (covering the period from 1896-1996), and so
myopically overlooked Shawshank in favor of such titles as Rocky, Dr.
Strangelove, Network, and Jaws, well, I thought that was absolutely
ridiculous.I wouldn't hesitate to put it in the top five of all time.

******
29 June 2013
7
I cannot believe that it took me 17 years to see this movie and was it
worth the wait well here's what the film is about.The story is about a young banker played by Tim Robbins who was
convicted of murdering his wife and her lover and is sentenced to life
in Shawnshank prison where he meets a former crook named Reed played by
the brilliant actor of our generation Morgan Freeman. The two become
inseparable as they deal with prison life and the guards betting the
HELL out of some of the prisoners; one got killed to death by the guard
while the other hanged himself to death.Everyday they have to dig up
holes and eating disgusting food, but will Andy(aka Robbins)ever get
out of prison and did he really kill his wife and her lover in
cold-blood?Bottom line is this; I'm 22 years of age a female who hates watching
these kind of movies as there really not my cup of tea,I'm sort of a
romantic/fantasy/cartoon/drama/weepie kind of chick and I hate watching
violent movies,but this movie was really good;but seriously is it the
best movie in the world? well for me its not in fact its all about
dealing with prison life and the whole motto is get busy or die trying. Overall I did enjoy this movie but I wouldn't be watching it again.
Once is enough for me.SO I'm giving it a 7.5/10

******
22 June 2013
6
In my opinion this movie is far from the greatest movie of all time.
Thou, it's a thrilling story, includes great acting and visually
constitutes of some extraordinary cinematography. The overall
impression you're left with after watching the shawshank redemption
does not make a lasting one. I don't know if it's the relatively dull
undertone or the mainstreamness of its story style, which makes it a
rather ordinary movie experience. I believe the Godfather was a better
choice for the number one spot, however there are a lot of other great
ones out there. I don't regret watching this movie, it's well worth its 2,5 hours and I
recommend you to watch it for the movie classic it is. But I wont
bother to see it again.

******
1 May 2013
7
Never has perseverance played such a strong character on film. The
respect and friendship that came from it were against all odds, but to
do so one would need hope. Tim Robbins' Andy Dufresne manages that
intangible saving grace over decades while falsely imprisoned and it's
Morgan Freemans' Red who narrates for us and in constant perspective
against the institutionalization of the Maine State penitentiary. The
symbiotic relationship between the two is perfect cinema chemistry. The
ending is quite fantasy, but makes for good afternoon drama on TNT who,
I believe bought the rights for a cheep price, and that's a happy
ending for Ted Turner!

******
20 January 2013
7
It's a good movie. I love this film. It's a story about hope and dreams
and one whose emotional impact is as great as the Pacific Ocean is
blue. An amazing movie. Easily one of the best movies made during the
90s and definitely one of the top 'prison' movies of all-time. Pretty
much everything about this movie works and works extremely well! I have
not read Stephen King's novella (his first non-horror), but some of the
movie's deficiencies, such as the old-fashioned morality tale and
portentous message about camaraderie and redemption--must have been in
the source material. Darabont explores the range of human kindness and
cruelty as he lovingly and patiently sculpts his large cast of
characters against magnificent scenery.

******
29 July 2012
7
I would recommend this film. It has a good plot and in the end all the
small things you never noticed all add up. So overall it's a good film.
It has a good meaning to it which a lot of films nowadays lack. However
during the first hour of the film I found it quite boring. It was as if
the film was leading to something and although things happened it just
didn't interest as me as much. In saying that the film really does have
a good meaning which is why I like it so much.Although I would recommend this film there are other films which have a
similar meaning which I personally think are better.I gave it 7 out of 10 simply because this film is above the average
film but it's not exceptional.

******
13 June 2012
7
The movies is very good and near spellbinding. I have seen it more than
once. Every time I see it playing on TV, I still watch it. The plot,
the acting, the dialog are very good. You do tend to lose yourself at
times. The plot is also unusual. It also has some my favorite lines. But, I am really surprised to see Shawsank Redemption at the top. I
guess, most people look for entertainment value and overlook things
that are not very possible. The movie tends to be a bit unrealistic for
certain events. They could have made it more realistic, since
everything else was done to perfection.Should you watch it? Absolutely.Should you give it a 9/10 rating? I am not so sure.

******
2 June 2012
8
Okay, if you seen this film because it was the number one top user
rated film on IMDb, you are along with pretty much everybody else
including me. This is still a rich film with a great ending and just
something that leaves the audience over all happy at the end. The only
major issue is how incredibly over-rated this film is, that since its
got to that status people start to hate it due to his incredibly
inflated ratings. Which is sad, because its a great film, nothing
sensationally magical about it, just a solid film that did what it was
trying to do. Everything was a little above average on this film, but
nothing really stood out to you and made you say 'wow this is
brilliant.' It's no a masterpiece by any means just a film that should
be respected but in it's entirety nothing more.I watched this film hoping that since it was number one it would live
up to that spot and it fell short for me, but it may just me, and my
style of movies. However, I don't really think anybody will hate this
film, but I don't think it deserve to be where it is, there are plenty
of other films I would choose as 'better' over this one. Over all it's still a great flick that everybody should ultimately
enjoy, but to claim its the best film ever made? Is quite simply
entirely untrue. score:7.5 to 8

******
6 April 2012
8
Firstly, as you probably know, this film is great! There's no two ways
about it, this film is great and always will be for many decades to
come.The casting is perfect and the performances of Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman are just brilliant. The film also has a message which all
viewers will relate to in one way or another and the last half an hour
is probably the best period in the film.However, the plot of Shawshank is entirely predictable and the movie is
way too long with periods where absolutely nothing is happening.All in all, Shawshank Redemption is a great film, if not the best of
the last century. It has many things going for a bit but is let down by
a few dull scenes and a predictable story line.

******
12 March 2012
8
Beginning as a story about a man named Andy, who is sentenced two life
sentences for killing his cheating wife and the man with her. Except he
didn't do it. Beginning as a simple story, it develops. And slowly but
surely, it rises and builds. He meet's Red, a inmate in the prison. He
builds a library, a prison and a friendship. And he loves getting beer.
Even with out suspense, it's kind-of suspenseful. The ending is very
satisfying. It is not a okay movie. It is a great film. One of the
best. 8 out of 10. A fine rating for me. As good as King's story. If
you have not seen it, give it a try. It deserves it's high rating. In
my top ten films. As it is known as a masterpiece, I have to say, it
is. And as it has trolls, I have to say, they are so wrong.

******
5 March 2012
8
Essentially, The Shawshank Redemption is about the survival of the
human spirit---in a colossally adverse situation. The brutality and
corruption which goes on in Shawshank Prison...never hits the viewer
right between the eyes (like it should). Thats due to the calming tones
of our narrator...Morgan Freeman. Mans in-humanity to man....is on full
display here...and its this strange mix of violence, upright stoicism
and high morality that makes for a heady brew. Lets not under-rate the
narration of Morgan Freeman---this was a huge reason why this movie is
now considered to be...a Classic. So, why did it bomb when it was
released ? Maybe it needs a couple of viewings for all the gears to
mesh (Who knows?) My major criticism , is that i thought the two leads
needed to be a bit more edgy , a little bit more angry. After all
..they weren't Saints. However, the messages that most people take from
this movie are positive (me included). I do not think its a
Classic------but it sure is a powerful movie ... and a very good one.

******
10 February 2012
8
Having not read the book initially, this movie blew me away. With such
intricacy to detail and screenplay which kept the viewer gripped The
Shawshank Redemption was one movie which ranks as most appealing to me.The whole time I, as a viewer, did not expect that the ending was going
to be like that, to that extent. The acting was indeed superb and the
way of expressing the changes in character and settings was impeccable.To reiterate to an audience what was occurring inside of the jail, and
to depict changes in emotions and feeling with such clarity definitely
justifies that the director of this movie was more than the average one
in Hollywood.1994, 18 years ago, was when this movie was made but to the level to
which it takes one is truly outstanding. One is absorbed by it, and
there is no confusion about what is happening but rather thoughts in
the viewers' minds about "What is gonna happen next?" These thoughts
are present when watching a horror/ thriller movie for the most part,
but for aficionados of different genres to all like this movie proves
that this was one heck of a movie.Cannot miss this movie; it is one that makes one think, learn, and be
entertained simultaneously.

******
20 November 2011
5
Two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding solace and
eventual redemption through acts of common decency.With The Shawshank Redemption number 1 on the top 250, you can easily
say that I had huge expectations. I never thought of it as the best
movie ever, but I still thought it would a great, moving experience
that gradually deserved it's position. If your expecting just that; I
suggest to throw your expectations away and keep away. HONESTLY, I
found the film to be quite good but the movie is obviously overrated.
First up, the acting and directing was fantastic. The first, say, 30
minutes had drawn me in fantastically. Unforgivably, this is the point
where the movie dragged itself down and made me lose interest a couple
times. Again, this is no way means I hated the film; I found it to be
great, but the fact that this film is top (especially over The
Godfather) confuses me. Honestly, the final minutes failed to move me;
which I expected. But although I found the movie to be good, I don't
find it to be one of the best. In fact, I might forget about it soon
down the road. So if your like me, and had all these expectations for a
great film, and was sadly letdown by a poor interest-level, stay away.
I know I'm probably going to get a lot of heat for this post, but I'm
stating my opinion. Maybe I was too tired to understand the impact or
maybe I wasn't in the mood for this kind of film. MAYBE, one day, I'll
have the time to re-watch and reconsider my opinion. Nonetheless, I
wasn't too impressed. The movie is great but lacks your interest. I
gets 7/10 for it's premise and 5/10 for it's overrated score. I would
recommend (possibly) if your into prison movies and maybe not so much
if you relate to me. 5/10.

******
19 October 2011
6
At the beginning when you watch the movie you will see the film was an
ordinary and doesn't deserves to be the best film in cinema history,
but don't be fooled by the title of the book because you don't know the
content is real only when you deepening it,, because the viewer
breathtaking start the story epic and heroic "people say that old
movies the best of the modern I agree with that as soon as I watched
this film, but i don't always agree that it is impossible to logically
"..I was surprised in the past before I watch the film to see what all
of these popular about so? ... I have started gradually discovered that
when I saw a lot of details about the main story ..I raised my
admiration for the story associated with some double by (andy) and that
the new person who came recently to the prison, which is called (Tommy)
who told the story to (Andy) about the real killer of his wife and her
lover .. So it was a story I didn't hear the strangest of them before.
I must say that this scene is the strangest sight I have ever seen.
This is true art, to begin to describe this film as a story of hope I
have some words about hope, I like to write to you, which I doubt
really that it will consolidate in the mind of the reader when they
hear or read (do not give up that stalled your feet and fell into a
large hole claims the prison will come out of them and you are more
coherent and strength to that, whatever the difficulties of life they
are experiencing and if the problems and your weight on your shoulders
and if you really want to change, if you want to transform your life
for the better, you must demonstrate hope, whatever the circumstances
that prevailed in that bright future is linked with hope!) If you are a
fan of crime stories and movies that relate to imprisonment and escape
from it in a way you never heard before , which will satisfy your
desire when you see the film because it contains a lot of meanings
powerful and sincere feelings for those looking for hope and
redemption. But not in the knowledge that this film does not hold
Action or any of that because everything is owned by the effects of
spiritual and words from the heart and the deep connotations.

******
16 September 2011
7
I, like most of the people I have known in the past thirty years or so
that discuss movies find that some stick out as gems. This is not one.
Since this movie came out, no one of dozens of people that are my
friends have described it as the best movie ever. In terms of its rank
on IMDb, is TSR overrated? YES! I went to about twenty other movie
sites before I stopped looking and only found it on only one site
within the top twenty. Just try it yourself. You won't even find it in
the top fifty on most. Better than "The Godfather", no. Better than
"Citizen Kane", maybe - (another overrated movie). Se7en is a more
engaging movie in terms of relationships between people. Shawshank
Redemption is like a vanilla R rated Disney movie, but enjoyable
nonetheless. I don't dislike the movie. I just do not understand the
complex and secret algorithms that IMDb uses. On some pages IMDb claims
to explain its vote calculation methods to you and on others it says
that it will never disclose its method of calculation completely. Maybe
they have a system that works but is not perfect. It certainly does not
coincide with the number of people that have seen a particular movie.
Maybe the compensation for the fact that far fewer people have seen TSR
than The Godfather is a factor.

******
14 August 2011
10
Wow, been a few years. I'm editing my old post. I'd like to humbly
thank everyone here for rating my flick so highly. #1, huh? Providing
the story for Shawshank Redemption was an imagination of myself under
the short story's circumstances. It is similar to K-PAX that way and of
the same vintage. Having been a business major at Georgia Tech, it
would be natural for me to help with estate planning, taxes, and
accounting had I been taken prisoner. The inside out program of public
works and attendant graft, corruption, intimidation and murder was my
way of encouraging scrutiny of similar programs nation-wide. I had been
Postmaster of the Georgia State Senate at 21, so that is why the State
Senate was written instead of the more common oracles, say the Maine
Governor's office or other organs of government and foundations. The
Mozart duet wasn't of my choosing, but it's generally acknowledged as
among the most beautiful pieces of music ever written, so that choice
was a no-brainer. I would have preferred the flute solo from Orpheus,
but that's just me. I purposefully decided against another loathsome
portrayal of racial casts that were very common at that time, so as not
to 'date' the picture and to influence viewers toward tolerance even in
intolerable circumstances. Against opposition, I gave the important Red
character to an African-American actor. (In the short story Red had
been an Irishman.) At the time, that dimmed prospects for box office
success, but given that the flick is now well- received, emulation has
led to further improvement. When we did this one in 1988ish, in
Syracuse, New York, I was attending graduate school of medicine at
SUNY-upstate and working in Max Mozell's lab. At about the same time, I
did dozens of films and won many Oscars for the various ghost writers.
(Gladiator, Good Will Hunting, Cast Away, Mystic River, Eternal
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Enemy at the Gates, Green Mile,
Shawshank Redemption, Vanilla Sky, A Beautiful Mind, Forrest Gump, The
Matrix films, The Bourne films, National Treasure films, Pirates of the
Caribbean films, Avatar, Titanic, Lost in Translation, UP, ). The name
of the Mexican town on the seashore was conveyed to me by my old
friend, Frank Arnold, who was Zawataneo (sp?) on vacation while in
medical school. He spelled it for me over the phone while the 'creative
team' and I worked out the flick's details. Since then, the town has
boomed, an unexpected gift to Mexico. I set this one in Maine, to
de-stigmatize inflexible regional prejudices then current. It seems to
have worked. Michael Meyers figured me out, this flick is part of the
series designed to change the world, save the planet, and bring the
human race closer to God Almighty.

******
9 August 2011
8
I must start by stating that I have watched the movie at least 20
times. This is a masterpiece , work of a genius . And I recommend
everyone to watch this movie at least once in their lifetime .But .. yes there are some buts, when you get over the initial amazement
this movie brings to you you will find out that the plot was not very
solid. There are lots of very big loopholes (potholes ?? ) in the plot.
Like how weird is it that the prisoner is in the same cell for 20 years
.Or, he did not have another cell on his right, or he knew there will
be thunderstorm on the right he decided to flee. I personally felt very
bad after I realized these very very weak links in the movie which
actually weakens the foundation of the whole movie. It's like after
worshiping a person for 20 years of your life you come to know some
thing really bad about him .At one point of time I used to very strongly vote that if any movie
deserve to be the number 1 on IMDb, it's this movie. I am not so
convinced anymore .

******
15 February 2011
8
This is one of my favorite movies, but it does just go to show the
importance of a great script, good casting and good direction. By that
I mean that, for example, in this movie, the Tim Robbins character
looks like someone who's admirable in every way in the world. But in
real life, I saw Tim Robbins on some TV show where he was interviewed,
and he came across as about as smart as a doorknob. I rate the movie an
8 and rate Tim Robbins a 5. What a jackass. Morgan Freeman is topnotch
as always, and so is James Whitmore. Real professionals. So is Bob
Gunton, the warden. To Tim Robbins credit, this was one of the best
jobs he ever did, and maybe the very best. Also an unusually good job
for Stephen King, who, in this flick, took a break from his usual
moronic horror stories.

******
11 September 2010
10
What would you do if you were convicted of murdering your wife and her
lover, and sentenced to two life-imprisonment terms? Would you just
give up? Would you try to escape? How long would you have to live in
prison before you lose hope? Writer-Director Frank Darabont (The Mist,
The Green Mile) explores these situations, and the themes of integrity,
hope, and freedom.Tim Robbins portrays the character of Andy Dufresne, the man who's
situation was described earlier. Andy claims he didn't commit the
murders, but strong evidence overruled his claims. Did Andy really not
do it? We never really know for sure until later on in the film. When
Andy first arrives at Shawshank prison, he's antisocial, and goes along
with the prison's routine for months. After a few months, however, Andy
starts developing a friendship with Red (Morgan Freeman), a man who can
get practically anything from outside the prison to inside, for a
price. Andy asks him for a rock hammer. The importance of this rock
hammer is evident later on in the film. But Andy's request for this
rock hammer at the beginning of the film allows him to make a new
friend at the prison to keep him company.Andy's time at Shawshank prison causes it to change dramatically.
Within a few years, Andy becomes an important aspect to the prison. His
accounting skills help him receive benefits for himself and his friends
by helping the prison guards with their taxes and other financial
issues. The warden of Shawshank prison also takes interest in Andy, and
soon uses him for a complex money scheme. Andy's role in the prison
allows him to have a library established in the prison, as well as get
beers and other things for his friends. Andy is basically making a new
life for himself in the prison, but he still wants to get out. However,
how many years does it take in the prison for him to give up? How many
years does it take until the prison is your only way of life? This
becomes a problem for many prison inmates, and even to a friend of
Andy's.One of the prisoners, Brookes (James Whitmore) is in this predicament.
Brookes has lived in the prison for so long, for many decades, that
it's all he knows. In the film Brookes gets released out of Shawshank
prison, and is allowed to live a normal life; he has a job and a home.
However, how does one live in a world that has drastically changed over
the past decades? When Brookes was a little boy, cars were rare, but
when he gets released from prison cars were everywhere. It's difficult
to cope with, and Brookes is unable to deal with it. How long until
Andy is the same way?The film portrays two decades of Andy's sentence, with many different
interesting story lines and conflicts mixed in, with many different
characters. 'The Shawshank Redemption' has one important plot involving
Andy's life in the prison and his hopes to escape, along with numerous
side plots involving new inmates and such. The third act of the film is
the quickest, and one of the most interesting parts. It involves a
strong, yet completely unpredictable, resolution to the film. It also
wraps up the lives of the main characters within the film in satisfying
ways.'The Shawshank Redemption' does an excellent job at portraying the
themes of integrity and freedom, and how the prison can sometimes be
some peoples' freedom, with the outside world being feared. Andy's
integrity and hopes to escape from the prison is also a major part of
the film. 'The Shawshank Redemption', adapted from the Stephen King
novel, 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption', is a strongly-acted,
well-written, and wonderfully-directed film. It's an amazing and
inspirational piece of work, and probably the most perfect film I've
ever seen. The plot is always at the same constant pace, and is never
slowed down and boring. Every single part of the film is strong,
entertaining, and thoughtful. It truly is a perfect film (this doesn't
necessarily mean it's the the best film ever in the history of cinema).PS: 'The Shawshank Redemption' came out around the same time as
'Forrest Gump' (1994). Both films are amazing and one of the best, but
'Shawshank' was overshadowed by the popularity of 'Gump.' But years
later, 'Shawshank Redemption' was placed even higher than 'Forrest
Gump' on AFI's 100 Years 100 Movies list. 'Shawshank' is also
currently the #1 movie of all time on IMDb. Go figure.

******
10 September 2010
10
This movie is a heart felt classic. One of the best of all time. And
thats because it's one of the best story's of all time, combined with a
great plot, great acting, and great script. Quotable, emotional, and
all about redeeming one's life.It contains great tragedy with great camaraderie. The villain, who is
the warden at the Prison, may be one of the most well developed
villains ever. You see his weakness and his strength. You see the same
qualities in yourself in the mistakes you made. And when he collapses
at the end, you hate and pity him at the same time. Andy, the lead
character, is perhaps the greatest heroin. He doesn't possess special
powers to make him great. He possesses the best of human nature. He's
tough, enduring, passionate, smart, and pure of heart.Had to review this movie when I saw the Godfather creeping up on it in
the IMDb top 250. Godfather is not the same caliber. Anyone can
appreciate this movie. There are plenty of people who would feel 'Out
of Touch' with The Godfather, but they arn't reviewing it.

******
6 September 2010
10
Really Fantastic,Nicely presented movie.Many positives only.No
negatives No regular features.Immeterial of the place and
situation,what a difference a person's(Andy's) attitude & initiatives
can bring for himself and his friend RED who is a hopeless person.The
Warden considered a worthy good person in the jail premises suppose to
monitor all.He is good only in the eyes of the public and Law,but
practically not so.The Director and the people who voted positive needs
to be appreciated for their bold initiative of supporting such a low
budgeted movie with emphasis on reality.Watching this movie by any
person and in any situation can bring happiness to him/her and the
people around.

******
31 August 2010
10
So as the summary of my post shows, I just registered on IMDb. Never
really cared about writing reviews or rating movies before. But then a
few days ago this movie was on TV. So I watched it, there wasn't
anything with big explosions on any other channel, so I thought why
not. This was before I've even heard of it. Now I know it's #1 on IMDb,
but I didn't have any idea what it was even about when it was on.Anyway, after about 15 minutes I knew there would be something special
about this movie, and boy was I right. I might not be the most
articulate review-writer, as I've seen allot of good reviews on IMDb.
But I still want to write something more than "IT'S FRICKI' AMAZING!".
But I just don't know where to start. There are so many characters and
stories, and the depth of it all is just unbelievable. At the end of it
I was just sitting there glaring at the screen, smiling to myself for
witnessing such a masterpiece. So I guess I'll have to settle with
option 1. It's just simply amazing. Watch it. It's not overrated. That
is all.

******
31 August 2010
10
This movie is THE classic. It is a beautiful, well thought, captivating
drama that really touches you. It is no surprise that's the number 1 by
many reviewers and ultimately #1 in the IMDb Top 250.The plot is rather simple : a man is accused for committing a crime
which he did not take part in. That being said , the movie tells his
life in the prison , thorough the eyes of another character, Red,
portrayed by Morgan Freeman..One can ask how this basic, modest story , can be so astonishing.One of the things that contribute to this magic title , is the rather
humble , very human way that the main character acts . Although
injusticed, he manages to keep his head cool , and makes everything he
can to aid his and their fellas life better , with the help of
elementary things like a cigarette , a beer or even a book.The story is told with a perfect and quiet pace, guided by the words of
Freeman - they transmit a sense of understanding, calming and wisdom
sense that follows through until the very end of the movie.In result, the Shawhank Redemption is the perfect ride - delivers
everything one could want and yet arises meaningfully questions
concerning the purpose and ways of life , that one should not just
ignore.

******
30 August 2010
10
Wihthout a doubt this is one of my all time favorite movies and is
probably the best Stephen King film.I had never heard of it until i saw
the IMDb top 250.Better than The Godfather.I'm super glad this is #1 on
the top 250.It has an amazing plot and is a movie that sends a lot of
messages one being that institutionalization has a huge effect on
people that are in prison for many years and they get used to it.When
they leave they want to go back to the prison as it is their home. It
is a shame it didn't win any awards at the Academy Awards.If I were on
the panel deciding what movie should win Best Picture Oscar I would
have picked The Shawshank Redemption which would have been a hard task
as 2 other masterpieces Forrest Gump and Pulp Fiction were also in the
nominees.1994 must have been a really outstanding year in film.I wish I
could give it 11 stars.This is a movie you have to see.It truly is a
film that is for watching dozens of times and is a beauty all the time10/10

******
20 August 2010
10
The Shawshank Redemption may be one of the best movies that I have ever
seen. The acting is excellent with a stunning story provided by my
favorite author, Stephen King, the movie had to be great. The Shawshank
Redemption is original, dark, and mysterious. It keeps you guessing
through to the end. Having read some of Stephen King's work, I normally
would enjoy the book more than the story because the movie has to be
changed to fit MPAA criteria. This movie was just like the story and
that is why it is so great. Tim Robbins makes a great lead character
but what makes him even better is that he has got Morgan Freeman along
side of him as his buddy. Overall, I would recommend this movie to
everyone. It doesn't even matter what kind of movies they like.

******
4 April 2010
10
This movie was clearly the best movie I've ever seen. I watched it
because it was number 1 on IMDb. Turns out my favorite movies like the
return of the king, Forrest Gump, or the dark night didn't even come
close to it. Why can't movie directors now days make such a good movie
like this anymore? I would definitely recommend people to watch this if
you like serious movies or meaningful movies. But if your the type of
person who has ADHD and can't stand watching a talking scene for 10
seconds, i wouldn't recommend this to you. I would warn you that this
is a long movie and it's not meant to watch it in birthday parties
unless if your friends are all nerds or serious people. Also don't let
your parents see it because there are many swear words in it, with some
violence and almost a gay sex-scene. Other wise this movie is
great!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

******
31 March 2010
9
Don't get me wrong,I loved this movie. It's a beautiful and powerful
fictional story, beautifully and powerfully told. Incredible job by
everyone involved,and this is a very rich movie,it goes everywhere and
never misses,and the control and confidence with which it is driven
forward by Darabont reminded me of Coppola. It also reminded me
somewhat of The Hill,Pappilon,Brubaker which are one of my favorite
films about incarceration.Which brings me to my only discontent about
Shawshank Redemption: the fact that Andy Dufresne succeeds in solving
everything so completely. Revenge,freedom,happiness,reward for his
patience and determination, all with one precise blow. And fate somehow
cooperates.Well,that's too much for me.The happy ending was nice,but it
was a bit too happy.It really goes straight for that pure part of our
being that would want everything to be spectacular and complete, which
gives us great emotions but ultimately "insults" our common sense.Andy
Dufresne managed to beat the system. It took 18 years but he did it.
Beautiful but I don't buy that. Makes for a great movie but doesn't
leave much room to meditate.However I wouldn't even think of rating
this one less than 9 and really deserves top marks. However,looking
around me and thinking about my fate and the fate of others and the
fate of the world, I see no Andy Dufresne's. I see the warden, I see
Red and I see almost all characters but not Andy.He's like Tristan or
Heracles to me,and I don't believe in those hero myths.So,almost
perfect movie,but I'll make and take a point by rating it 9.

******
26 January 2010
8
Good movie but 9 is too extreme, is certainly one of the masterpieces
of cinema, but like many Hollywood movies there is some bad things,
when the protagonist moves down the sewer pipe, in reality it would be
caught bad. A very nice movie that you can refer to the way that each
of us must do just to get out of certain problems. After all you put
poor grades to great films, especially horror. Hardly comes out of jail
in a tunnel of excrement, jail and violence and degradation but you can
get out mainly in Italy. However great interpretation of Morgan
Freeman, many sentences are historical and should keep in mind. In the
movies there must be some humanity in this film there is too much
violence

******
22 January 2010
8
I break my reviewing of movies down into five aspects, each worth two
stars, plot, characters, cinematography, soundtrack, and acting. So
here's my broken down review of Shawshank Redemption: Plot: One star.
While the plot flows neatly, is well developed, and doesn't have any
loopholes I noticed, it lacks the originality one would expect from the
top rated movie on IMDb. I have no complaints other than the lack of
providing me with something truly original and complex. It's not a
simple plot, per say, just as it's not an unoriginal plot, but it is by
no means an extremely original or complex plot.Characters: Two stars. No characters went blatantly against psychology,
nor did they ever break their characterization. Characterization was
pretty good and I have no real complaints, all I would have to question
is Andy's character. He was gang raped and got his ass kicked multiple
times and was still this calm, cool, collected guy. I don't see how
that would work out in the real world, so I didn't find that really
believable, but he kept with his characterization and the movie made up
for it with the almost relatable nature of Red's character and how well
the minor characters were developed. That's probably what blew me away
character-wise. No character was exceptionally complex, but all stayed
true to their characterization. However, Andy should have been more
complex than he was, seeing as how he was the main character.Cinematography: Two stars. I have no complaints. Camera angles,
effects, etc. were very good, though there was nothing exceptional
about them that really stood out to me. Though I do realize that it was
pretty well done for a 90's movie. Again, no complaints.Soundtrack: Two stars. Again, very well done, no complaints here. At no
time did it overshadow dialogue, and at no time were there awkward
silences. However, nothing really stood out to me. Not a soundtrack I'd
go on raving to my friends about, but no complaints.Acting: One star. This is obviously unexpected. I mean, Morgan Freeman
and Tim Robbins...I was surprised I didn't find it amazing. But Morgan
Freeman's monologues lacked heart and Tim Robbins' character didn't
give him any room for heart to be placed into it. Again, the best
acting in the movie, in my opinion, would be from the minor characters.
Frank Medrano is worth note, in my opinion, as he was very, very good.
But he didn't remain in the movie long, so him and the other minor
characters didn't make it enough for me to give acting two stars. I'm
sure many people would disagree, though.All in all, I give this movie eight stars and would recommend it to a
friend, but I wouldn't have it rated first on IMDb because, while it
was very good, it didn't strike me as THAT good. There are more
original movies out there that I would recommend before this, though I
do recommend that people watch this movie along with the others.

******
22 January 2010
7
I like this movie all right, I would not rank it on my top movies of
all time and I am also not the type of person to give every movie I see
either a nine or ten or one and two. There are six other numbers in
between and I use them all and I say this one warrants a seven. The
movie about two inmates becoming friends in a corrupt prison has its
charm. It also has its bad points that being the evil prison system
with its mean warden and guards who batter the prisoners. Still, I can
role with that as I can the fact that Tim Robbins is horribly cast in
this film. When he first arrives at Shawshank he does the role
perfectly, however his performance never changes throughout the movie.
He still talks softly, still has the same look, the guy has supposedly
spent some time here so he is going to change even if he does not lose
his hope. There are many positives too though as Morgan Freeman
literally carries the film and I loved the ending escape scenes. I also
like the fact I can just start watching this movie in the middle and
just go on doing something else. Maybe pick it up again later at the
beginning, it is just one of those movies that I can watch it from here
or there and be entertained, but do not necessarily feel I have to
watch it from beginning to end. I know I am now going to be attacked
though as I did not give this movie a nine or ten though. Especially
attacking a movie that so many people think is the greatest thing ever,
however this is just an opinion so just chill. At least I did not like
it and give it a one to lower its score like some people have.

******
24 September 2009
10
I started of watching this movie without any 'hype'. I knew it was a
good film since it claimed the #1 spot in the IMDb top 250 movies.But
after the credits rolled down,i very well understood why it claimed the
#1 spot. This is a gem of a movie. If you missed it, then go watch it.
It doesn't have speedy car chases,gripping war sequences or thumping
action. But it conveys a strong & warm story to the viewers holding
them close. I cant stress more. This is a 'must watch before you die'
movie. or you'll cry in the heaven,having missed out this
masterpiece... Morgan freeman & Tim Robbins are outstanding. They make
the movie unforgettable with their outstanding performance.Each &
everyone contribute their best in this movie.The background score is
also superb,although it is less. I give it 9.5/10

******
19 July 2009
10
I was feeling a little discouraged the other day so I decided to put
"Old Faithful" in the DVD player. Sure enough, after watching it--for
who knows how many times--I felt inspired again. This movie is the best
movie I've ever seen and maybe the best ever made. It's for anyone who
needs to understand the power of hope--which means it's for everyone
everywhere. I'm so proud it is the top movie on IMDb's Top 250, it sooo
deserves it. I'm so glad it has touched others the way it touched me.
If you haven't seen it--first of all, what planet are you on? lol--but
seriously, go rent it. This is a movie that can change a life. If it
doesn't do something to your insides, you probably don't have a pulse.
I'm so grateful to Stephen King for writing it and to Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman and the director and others for making it such a classic
film. THIS is what movie-making was supposed to be.

******
8 July 2009
7
Very wrong. For so long, I avoided watching this film. I already knew
what it was going to be like: the slightly above average movie with
themes about hope and freedom. An all-out American flick which only a
sentimental American could enjoy, and thus I resented it for holding
the title as the best film ever. When it came to the themes I wasn't
wrong; hope & freedom are the skeleton on which this film is built but
the way it is executed far surpassed any anticipation I could have
mustered, had I actually looked forward to watch it. Morgan Freeman is
sublime as always, Tim Robbins perhaps even better. It slowly develops
and unfolds, which is refreshing compared to all too many fast-cut
films where it seems that the idea is that fast pace equals quality. I
swallowed Shawshank Redemption whole, and even though I do not agree
with its No. 1 ranking, I can now understand. Great movie!

******
7 June 2009
7
Both the story and acting is very good. Though not provoking, the film
doesn't stop when the credits starts rolling. It will make you think.This film slowly takes off and has no really element of suspense. It's
a human story without any fast action. The production contains no
surprises and make the viewer concentrate 100% on the story....but my single issue is how long it takes for the film to get
interesting. For me almost an hour. Maybe this is necessary to build up
the story. A high rated film needs to be great from the start. The
first part is a film true to it's genre and quite predictable.I can's stop thinking that this film's outstanding rating on IMDb, like
some others, maintain their position of obvious reasons. When a film
(or music album)is considered among the best, new reviewers are
affected by this status.

******
5 April 2009
7
Most of the movie is great, but i think that the ending was bad.
Dufresne telling Red about the field and Zihuatanejo makes it too to
figure out that they'll both end up free and happy :) A very dramatic
movie until then and with some funny catch lines from time to time.
Great acting by not only Tim and Morgan but by most of the actors. The
small "stories" besides the main one makes it great, too. The library,
Red's tries to get released, the boy who had met the one who committed
the crime that Dufresne was sentenced for and such things help the
movie going on without making it boring. I also think that it isn't a
movie that can be seen a lot of times but i'm not sure before having
seen it a couple of times more

******
18 March 2009
10
What is the movie about? The movie begins with Andy Dufresne in a Maine
courtroom. He was prosecuted for the murder of his ex-wife and her
boy-friend. He received two life sentences. Being the manager of a bank
he was very shocked at the long sentence. When Andy arrived at Shawshank Prison, life was very difficult. He did
meet one person who became his best friend. Andy was hunted by some gay
prisoners; they beat him up all the time. Red got Andy away from the
gang saving his life. Andy and Red always hung out and took care of
each other after that. Twenty years passed and a new inmate at Shawshank told Andy about a
cell-mate in another prison. This cell-mate was a born killer. He loved
describing his crimes. One of his stories was about two lovers who were
murdered. He continued to say that the woman was the wife of a banker
and he was found guilty and received the same sentence as Andy. Andy
knew that this person he was being told about was himself.During Dufresne’s time in prison he was the Warden’s account. Samual
Norton, the Warden, took huge bribes but Andy covered his tracks. When
Andy went to the Warden with evidence that would set him free Norton
had Andy’s witness murdered. He did not want to be discovered as a
crook.Andy escaped from Shawshank through the sewage pipes with Norton’s bank
statements and checkbook. Andy Dufresne cashed in the Warden’s money
and the Norton committed suicide. In the end Red was released from Shawshank and joined Andy in
Zihuatanejo, Mexico.Main Characters:• Tim Robbins (Andy Dufresne) – Andy was a bank manager from a bank in
Bangor, Maine. He spent 20 years in Shawshank being innocent. • Morgan
Freeman (Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding) – He was in Shawshank for a murder
he committed when he was a teenager. When Andy arrived at the prison,
Red had already spent 20 years. • Bob Gunton (Warden Norton) – Seemed
to start off the movie as a tough but fair prison warden. As the movie
went on, he became corrupt. He made prisoners work on roads and farms
but collected money for himself from the State. • Clancy Brown (Capitan
Hadley) – He was the worst guard at Shawshank. He beat many convicts to
death. He was the Warden’s ‘pet.’My opinion about this movie: This is one of the best movies I have
seen. The acting was excellent. Even though the movie was set in a
prison, it was a story about real friendship in a difficult setting.

******
31 July 2008
10
Darabonts film about an innocent banker and his troubles inside a
maximum security prison with a tough warden (Gunton). Andy (robbins)
befriends an inmate whose friendship gives him hope and is the backbone
of the film, Morgan Freeman plays this role superbly in what i think is
the actor's best performance of all time. This is Freeman's film,
though Robbins is great in the lead and Gunton is a hell of an
antagonist. Everything about this film is perfect, so i can completely
see why its the 3rd best film of all time on IMDb. I am a big fan and
have watched it 5 times and wouldn't mind on seeing it again later down
the line. IMDb Rating: 9.2 MY Rating: 10/10

******
16 June 2008
10
The direction, the acting, the writing, absolutely everything about
this film is masterful.To start off with, the acting is excellent.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman both give what are arguably the
performances of their career. Robbins acts with subtlety and
understatement, speaking his lines and manipulating his body language
with an effortless grace. Freeman's acting and narration are brilliant,
in particular his monologue near the end.The direction is some of the best, a surprising and resounding foray
into big budget films by Frank Darabont.And of course, the writing is the true shining feature. The creativity
of the story, and the twists that give us the ultimate satisfaction are
rarities among modern American films.This movie, is unquestionably one of the best films of the 1990s, and
perhaps one of the best that has ever been made

******
16 March 2008
10
the best movie ever made.why? because the whole movie is entertaining there is no part that
makes you bored is the best film and is one of the best story told on
film. and the way its narrating is great Morgan freeman's voice is like
flowers,and his performance too and trim Robbins is great too the way
that you see his face,the face of having a secret and you don't even
know whats gonna happen even the supporting cast like James withmore
and i don't wanna spoil so I'm just gonna tell he gives really dramatic
performance,i really cant believe it didn't won anything at the Oscars
it was one of the most silent unfamous films of the Oscars. and besides
you love the character and u cant deny it. and here in this movie i really fealt it being there, all the cruelty.
and when they get istitucionalized you get a great message about get
used to.like red said "first you hate it,then you get used to it".if you don't cry in this movie u don't have a heart!

******
28 January 2008
10
I wasn't sure if I wanted to see this movie or not, but my brother kept
raving about it and finally made me watch. I'm tremendously glad he
did.The acting is perfectly accurate and plot leaves no gaps or
unbelievable events that spoil the whole movie. This movie was amazing
and was instantly my favorite movie. Morgan Freeman is absolutely
perfect and so are Robbins and the rest of the cast. Wonderfully well
put together as Freeman narrates his character's (Red) thoughts which I
thought was pretty cool.I've never written a comment on IMDb, but this moment compelled me to
write one. By far my favorite movie of all time.

******
22 December 2007
9
Andy Dufresne is a young and successful banker whose life changes
drastically when he is convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for
the murder of his wife and her lover. Set in the 1940's, the film shows
how Andy, with the help of his friend Red, the prison entrepreneur,
turns out to be a most unconventional prisoner.I've heard much about this movie. I've heard great things about this
movie; wait, scratch that. I've heard brilliant things about this movie
(considering that this is #2 on the top 250 list in IMDb). I didn't
really expect much from this movie because of the long running time and
that this film (I thought) was about redemption. Boy, did it blow me
away!It didn't blow me away as far as people have been blown like a huge
tornado have wrecked the country. It had blown me away like a strong
wind would've knocked me down. It wasn't all that great (like a
masterpiece) but it was an extremely satisfying film.The performances in here were pretty much rock solid as far as playing
two men in jail can go. The score was indeed very pleasing to one's
ears. What else to say? Oh, the story may feel dark but there are some
points where there are some light-heartedness and comedic scenes.This film won me over. It pretty much won everyone over with it's great
story and heart. Overall, as I said, it was extremely satisfying to
watch from beginning to end. It didn't drag a bit even for a two and
almost a half hour film. Watch it and you'll be blown away; but not as
much as many others have been.

******
20 December 2007
10
Perhaps the greatest movie ever made, The Shawshank Redemption tells
the touching and emotive story of the Andy Dufrain. Wrongly convicted
of a dual murder, Dufrain is sent to the to the infamous walls of
Shawshank Prison and the film explores his lifetime of experiences
there.Throughout the film the audience is supplied with a variety of details
and subplots. What is amazing however is the director's ability to
cleverly weave these details into the conclusion and to give each a
remarkable significance.The film features some of the best acting to record and by far the
greatest narrator, Morgan Freeman. The film establishes its themes
perfectly, most notably the paramount bond between the characters
played by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.This film will remain a classic for many years to come and the
conclusion will continue to stun and inspire audiences.

******
11 December 2007
10
i first heard of the shawshank redemption whilst watching the Oscars in
1994 and i was filled with the usual negative pre conceptions-old
fashioned film,prison film,and a long film.therefore it was another 12
months before i watched it due to every man and his dog raving about
it.i was then taken back by what is probably the only perfect film i
have ever seen.from the damning of andy in the opening scene,the
horrific suicide and rape scenes,the central relationship between red
and andy,reds parole knockbacks,the enthralling escape right up to the
uplifting ending,this is cinematic perfection and i doubt that as the
years pass by Hollywood will ever be capable of making a film of this
calibre again

******
19 November 2007
9
I have recently watched The Shawshank Redemption. To put it simply as
possible, it is a great piece of movie history.This movie deserves to be where it is (second)on the best Two hundred
and fifty greatest films of all time.The Shawshank Redemption is basically about a prisoner, who is in
Shawshank prison because of a murder which he didn't commit. The
prisoner is a banker called Andy dufresne. As the film shows Andy is a
honest man. Andy is also a committed man. Andy is acted by Tim Robbins.
Andy Dufresne makes a strong friendship with a man nicknamed Red. Red
is acted by Morgan Freeman. I think this movie is on of the best I've
ever seen I would rate it 9 out of 10.

******
8 November 2007
8
This is one of my favourite films of all time, but I would never have
watched it if it hadn't been recommended because prison films are not
usually my thing. Of course it is Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman that
help make the film so perfect but also it has got to be the story. It
is perfection and proof that Hollywood can still make good films. Why
did it not win the Oscar? By far the best thing about it is that after
all the troubles the two leading characters go through there is a happy
ending (which is not contrived) that leaves you feeling happy and
uplifted. If you have seen and liked "The Green Mile" try this one as
it is even better!

******
31 October 2007
10
I stopped to see Shawshank when I was driving through Cincinnati. The
theater was speckled with moviegoers.. all unaware of what an
incredible cinematic achievement they were about to witness. There
wasn't the slightest sound from the audience....they were mesmerized.
The Jail(was in Mansield,Oh./now torn down), the music, the fantastic
performances from a slew of great actors, Whitmore as Brooks, Robbins
as Andy Dufresne, and Morgan Freeman as Red,..they all did a
spectacular job. This is a film(one of the few)...that will leave it's
audience in tears of happiness. The narration from Freeman is written
with care and this film is crafted and paced with a precision that
Hollywood hasn't seen in a long, long, time. "I hope to see the
Pacific...I hope it is as blue as it is in my dreams". This film
addresses many moral trust issues....from being raped in jail, to
finding a friend amongst criminals, to being unjustly incarcerated and
then shunned when you prove your innocence.."how could you be so
obtuse?".....in the end it is the simplest thing, friendship, that is
synonymous with freedom. This was the last time I was in a theater that
cheered at the credits....and the only time an audience...so small in
numbers...ever did that. One of my top 5 favorite films of all-time.
98/100

******
20 October 2007
9
I am just here stroking the ego of one of the greatest films of all
time its not really a useful comment but I am sure there will be plenty
of useful ones out there. I can't give it 10, its not within me to give
any film a 10 seeing as nothing is perfect, and moments of this film
did seem a little unbelievable...Its a great story, great acting blah blah blah the film industry is not
dead as long as for every Michael Bay film coming out their is a film
like this in existenceget it and watch it but don't show it to kids because it depicts
suicide and violence and they might go out and kill someone......

******
3 September 2007
10
This is THE film. If aliens came down to earth, and said "we will
destroy your earth, unless you show us a good film," This film would
bring peace to the universe. It was nominated for 7 Oscars, but they
were stolen by Forrest Gump, which is good, but it is a spec of dust
compared to The Shawshank Redemption. Plot 10/10 - Best story ever.Originality 10/10 - No other film quite like it.Intelligence 10/10 - Very Intelligent Acting 10/10 - All Actors = best performances. Funny 6/10 - More of a smile film. Tearjerker 9/10 - Watch it and shed a tear.Feel good 10/10 - This film makes you feel good about life.Narration 10/10 - Morgan Freeman has a great talking voice.Overall this film is a masterpiece.

******
27 August 2007
10
There aren't many films that have as much of an emotional pull on you
than the Shawshank Redemption does. Emotions flood through and through
as you watch this movie. One second it's sadness the next it's a
feeling of optimism and hope. A movie which solely takes place in a
prison is one of the most inspiring pieces of art to ever be released.
A film which features a brilliant screenplay by Frank Darabont,
astonishing performances by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins, an amazing
score by Thomas Newman, delightful cinematography and camera work, and
a film featuring some of the greatest and inspiring themes ever seen in
a film. One of the only films to ever bring me to tears, this beautiful
film will stay with you forever and leave you thinking of life, and the
possibility of wondrous things to come.

******
2 July 2007
10
The film tells the story of Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), an educated
banker sentenced to life for the murder of his wife and her lover. In
prison, Andy inspires his fellow inmates with his courage and humanity
and has a profound effect on Red (Morgan Freeman), an older prisoner,
who has given up hope.Unlike many films of the 90's, "The Shawshank Redemption" has "high
concept" plot premise and is somewhat episodic compared with the tight,
linear narratives of closer structured pictures. This sense of freedom
in the storytelling allows the film to consistently throw up genuine
surprises, as the viewer isn't constantly on guard for clues and plot
points. In hindsight, we tend to forget how successfully director Frank
Darabont leads us to expect a very different resolution."The Shawshank Redemption" does things well that you might not expect.
It has lengthy voice-overs (that actually work well) and it has a sappy
predictable ending, but yet these elements work because they are not
placed in the over-used, meaningless context that movies today place
them in. The voice overs are also consistently used in such a way that
distinct worlds are created. There's a real world inside the prison and
the surreal outside world.These two distinct worlds are created help to place the viewer inside
the halls of the prison, they are no longer watching a movie, but they
are also feeling it.This is a movie that will remain a favorite of the people for many
decades to come. 10/10

******
30 June 2007
9
I'm new to this so don't beat me up. I have seen this movie so may
times I can not count. If it is on I'll get hooked into watching and I
know I may have seen the beginning of the movie twice. Morgan and Tim
friendship in the movie is what makes this movie click. It give us a
good idea on what prison life was like in the 50ish years. I would
assume in some aspect in prison life a lot has changed, but some stay
the same. I'm a sucker for these type of movie that goes through a time
line in peoples lives. I tend to want to know my characters in a movie
then speed through not knowing a small history of the character It is
on my top 20 must see!!!

******
4 June 2007
10
The movie is the best I have seen so far.It is absolutely flawless.The
direction is brilliant,the cast is star-studded and the cinematography
is awesome.I give full marks to Frank Darabont for directing a film
which made me and everybody else feel touched.The film never bores u or
makes u feel sleepy.Every minute of the movie is filled with
excitement.The film is begun very well and also ends brilliantly with
no crap in the middle of the movie.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman Have
proved why they are one of the most enigmatic and versatile actors in
Hollywood.A film like this can come only once in a century.It deserves
the #1 rating among the top 250.10 out of 10 is just not enough for the
film.

******
14 May 2007
10
What can I say, it is films like this that just give you that great
feeling. This is a perfect film for themes such as hope, friendship,
freedom and corruption. Now for those who have not seen the film I
won't say anything, so do not worry, but just to tell you. If you are
into the themes I have just mentioned, then you will love this. Tim
Robbins adopts the role of Andy Dufresne as his own and Morgan freeman
plays Red in an emotional and convincing manner and really did shine
throughout the film. So if you want to see a film thats emotional,
intellectual, violent and warden smashing, then this film is for you.
It will give you chills.

******
3 May 2007
10
This movie is so much more than what one would make out of it by simply
looking at actors, director and plot outline. Its the synergy of all
these parts that makes it one of the greatest of all time. TSR is a
metaphor for all the important questions in life. The limits we set on
ourselves, the ease of falling into conformity and our fear to hope for
the best for our self's. The movie is about hope, in times of struggle,
in times of extreme hardships and injustices, its about enduring and
crawling trough all this s*** and seek the redemption outside in the
soft rain from heaven. Its simply a "to be, or not to be". I could
write cheesy metaphors all night but I'm gonna stop now. I love this
movie simply because it gives me hope, its helped me trough my life's
hardships, heartbreak and injustice, its helped me to get trough these
times and made me love life more than life itself.

******
31 March 2007
10
This is my all-time favorite movie, tied with Good Will Hunting. What a
clear and incredible experience i had trough this!! i'm still
breathless.This incredible film based on a short story by Stephen King (Rita
Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption) shows the story of Andy Dufresne
(Tim Robbins), an important banker who is convicted to life
imprisonment, accused of the murderer of his wife and her lover;
Dufresne then goes to the Shawshank prison where an incredible story of
hope takes place!, he meets Ellis Boyd Redding, best known as Red
(Morgan Freeman), also a life imprisonment convict who is well
respected in the prison; Dufresne begin to demonstrate that he isn't an
usual convict, gaining admiration and respect off the inmates, and
maintaining the hope in a drab and corrupt prison.It's incredible how the greatness of a human being can promote the most
wonderful feelings in the people, and how a really strong character can
maintain his values, principles and dreams amongst any situation. This
movie touched my soul, gave me a clear and fresh feeling and is a daily
guide to my life! It also demonstrate the importance of the reading,
education and self improvement, challenges, perseverance in reaching
goals, and love of the true meaning of life!.The quality of the film is incredible; the directing of Frank Darabont
is outstanding; Morgan Freeman is absolutely outstanding too!, Tim
Robbins is excellent, their friends roles are touching: Heywood
(William Sandler), Tommy (Gil Bellows) Brooks (James Whitmore); the
prison guards, specially Warden Samuel Norton (Bub Gunton) and Captain
Healey (Clancy Brown) have a good acting also.A movie that is worth to buy and see forever, is the movie that touch
your soul and left a sense of clearness, a movie to teach to your kids
the importance of holding to what you really are, and to always, in any
situation maintain the hope. 10/10 and my all time favorite!!

******
29 March 2007
9
This movie is certainly VERY well done. The plot is nice (Stephen King
never fails you down) and acting is superb, in particular Tim Robbins
and Bob Gunton, the director. You should see it, but in my opinion it
is not very original among "jail-movie" and not worthy of such a high
position, ranking on the IMDb's top 250 list.Another minor point which prevent the movie to get an excellent movie
is the fact that all characters are "one-dimensional stereotype". I
mean that in this movie characters can be extremely positive or
extremely negative, sometimes forgetting that human beings have complex
behavior.

******
23 March 2007
10
this movie took my breath away. it is a thought provoking, beautifully
acted, gorgeously filmed, uplifting film that never disappoints. Tim
Robins and Morgan both give award winning performances and it is very
odd when one realizes the lack of awards this movie received. Do not
let the lack of awards dissuade you though as Shawshank Redemption is
quite possibly the best movie i have ever seen, i just cant emphasize
how good this movie is. Please do yourself a favor and see this film
right now if you haven't already. If there was one good deed that could get you into heaven then watching
this movie would be it.

******
15 March 2007
9
Tim Robbins as a banker who goes to prison being accused of murdering
his wife and her lover.Sentence: life in prison.Morgan Freeman is his
fellow inmate "Red" and William Sadler is Heywood.Later a young inmate,
Gil Bellows as Tommy joins in.The poster of Rita Hayworth has a big
role in the film.Later it's Marilyn Monroe and finally it's Raquel
Welch.Frank Darabont directed this marvelous film based on Stephen
King's short story.It's one of the best movies made of King's
stories.Probably the best one alongside The Shining (1980).The acting
is superb.The story is fantastic.The Shawshank Redemtion is a big
movie.A kind of movie we should see more often.

******
17 February 2007
10
It is a great film because of the details that are used in the film.
the thing about the story and the movie itself is it is told from Red's
point of view making sure you know his opinion on it and what happened
instead of having to figure it out on yourself. it, to this day is my
favorite movie to watch and there will never be another movie like it
in my opinion. the things that andy does go through hit you hard
because you always see prisoners on TV but you never see an innocent
man that you know is innocent going to jail for life. the friends he
make are also very good additions that help the story and shows the
corruptness of prisons in captain hadley nd the warden. there are a lot
of memorable quotes in the movie also. such as "get busy living or get
busy dyin'". the shawshank redemption shows the hardships people can go
through when throws a curveball their way and how they deal with it.

******
14 February 2007
10
*The Shawshank SPOILERS* In the early '20s, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), a quiet bank employee,
is arrested, tried and sentenced to life in prison for the murders of
his wife and her lover, murders that he didn't commit.The calm man has to rough up really soon, in order to survive life in
the Shawshank prison, but manages to develop a friendship with a fellow
inmate called Red (Morgan Freeman) and to be employed in the
contability office by the corrupt director of Shawshank, thus helping
his escape plan...When I first watched this movie, a few years ago, I was so in awe that
as soon as I got out of school (where me and my classmates watched it
during a morning without teachers) I went and bought it.It's an instant classic, an inspiring movie, based upon a short story
by Stephen King (!), marvelously written, acted and directed, and fully
deserving of being owned.The Shawshank Redemption: 10/10.

******
12 February 2007
10
Movie right at the beginning starts showing its quality of dialogues
and thats the key for bounding the viewers .Then a fine story with
great actors leaves an everlasting impression. Point of life after
prison is also shown with a heart touching scene.Humanity in prison is
raised by another scene. Overall this movie can't be compared with
others as such a style of escape can't be said to be inspired.Atlast
the movie gives a message of friendship,love and hope. A way of making
prisoner's life more useful to the society and how education can affect
the system is suggested.Combining these all elements in a series of
events is commendable.The tag line of this movie is inspiring.

******
25 October 2006
10
This was a GREAT movie. I was sitting with a feeling of happiness in my
heart when the end text was coming. Definitely one of the best movies
ever made. Just great. Ain't got time to write any more, so i will
cheat on this one. This was a GREAT movie. I was sitting with a feeling
of happiness in my heart when the end text was coming. Definitely one
of the best movies ever made. Just great. Ain't got time to write any
more, so i will cheat on this one. This was a GREAT movie. I was
sitting with a feeling of happiness in my heart when the end text was
coming. Definitely one of the best movies ever made. Just great. Ain't
got time to write any more, so i will cheat on this one. This was a
GREAT movie. I was sitting with a feeling of happiness in my heart when
the end text was coming. Definitely one of the best movies ever made.
Just great. Ain't got time to write any more, so i will cheat on this
one. This was a GREAT movie. I was sitting with a feeling of happiness
in my heart when the end text was coming. Definitely one of the best
movies ever made. Just great. Ain't got time to write any more, so i
will cheat on this one. This was a GREAT movie. I was sitting with a
feeling of happiness in my heart when the end text was coming.
Definitely one of the best movies ever made. Just great. Ain't got time
to write any more, so i will cheat on this one.

******
2 October 2006
10
This is definitely the best film I've ever seen.Ever What pulled me in
is how much you start to feel for these characters as if their real
people. Another thing that I liked is how the characters change for
example Andy(main character) at the start hes a healthy looking man and
after 20 years he has grey hairs bags under his eyes and a broken
spirit.In the end you don't care what happens to the warden you don't
care if he becomes president as long as Andy escapes.In truth this is a
love story but not a regular love story this is A story of two of the
most unlikely candidates.There's Andy a hardworking lawyer and then
there's red sent to prison at the age of 18 for murder and armed
robbery two polar opposites but in the end they might as well be
family.This is the single most powerful movie ever at the end I was
crying something that has never happened before anyway this is a film
to see before you die words cant honestly explain how great this film
is you have to see it.

******
1 October 2006
10
I personally think that the way this movie touches me cannot be put
into words. The core of this movie is hope: hope that overcomes every
obstacle placed in your way, the knowing that the wronged people in
life can triumph over evil. This is what Andy Dufresne achieves, and
the tag line of "Fear can hold you prisoner, hope can set you free" is
perfect The underlying theme is friendship, and Andy and Reds
friendship is perfectly portrayed here by Morgan Freeman and Tim
Robbins. They are both fine actors, and I feel here they give career
best performances(although Morgan Freeman is generally good in
everything). Morgan Freeman should of won an Oscar for his subtle
approach to this role - surely his million dollar baby Oscar is a
belated one for this movie too? The directing, the story and everything
combine to make this a special movie - don't worry, the ratings in the
all time list, which always put this movie in the top 5, are not wrong.
This is a movie everyone must see!!!

******
23 September 2006
10
I watched the Shawshank Redemption.I went on to the message board seeing many threads about it being
overrated. I told myself that I shouldn't be surprised since it is
Number 2 on the Top 250, quite an honor indeed.So times passes...and I think about it. I see the movie again on
Showtime, a movie channel....and after it is over for a second time, I think, "This movie is
flawless." The acting, the direction, the pace, the adaption, the
music, the set, the cinematography, the script...flawless? This is what
I was telling myself.This is a claim that I, myself, think is pretty crazy...but I think the
reason the Shawshank Redemption is looked down upon is because it is
flawless.And even if that isn't true, that is how I feel about it.10/10.

******
22 September 2006
9
I do think some films get better the more you view them. "Shawshank" is
such a film. Whever I stumble across it on a cable channel, I am simply
unable to break away from it, even though I've seen it a dozen times.
The best films are "simple stories, well told." From the script, to the
acting, to the direction, to the sets, and - most importantly - in its
message, "The Shawshank Redemption" is absolutely first-rate. It's
always fun to see a wronged man win in the end, but in this story it is
the manner in which Andy prevails that is so gripping. The scene in
which Tim Robbins as Andy ponders if he is in some way responsible for
his fate because of his thoughts is amazing. And Morgan Freeman's
greatest film moment comes when he faces the parole board one more
time. Most movies blow from your mind minutes after the final credits,
this one stays with you forever. I'm ready to see it again.

******
5 September 2006
10
i've seen the top 50 films in the IMDb top 250 category and a number of
times I've felt that a movie wasn't worth its ranking. the shawshank
redemption fits this bill in not being placed number one. and this
coming from a die-hard god father fan must surely mean something. the
storyline, the cinematography and the acting are all masterpieces in
their own right. the story of a wronged person accepting his fate and
then changing it is remarkable, for everyone relates to it, though
maybe not to the extent portrayed here. kudos to stephen king and frank
darabont and the actors for a great movie. its a real pity that it won
no Oscars. this is one movie i would have hated to miss. truly
exceptional.

******
4 September 2006
10
*spoilers*The first time I saw "The Shawshank Redemption",I was simply blown away
by how powerful this movie is. There are no action sequences or
romances, but the subtle drama of a man who is wrongly accused is
easily identifiable, possibly because we realize that it could happen
to anyone. What makes the main character (Andy Dufrene) find the strength to
survive his term of life in prison is his knowledge of his innocence,
and his friendship with Red, a convicted murderer, who is slowly
reforming throughout the movie. The end of the movie is perhaps one of
the most uplifting scenes I have ever watched, as justice finally
prevails, due to Andy's determination and careful planning.I never get tired of this movie. From the beginning of the movie where
Andy considers murder, to his incarceration for that same
murder(ironically committed by someone else), and his long stay in
prison under a cruel warden, and finally the best-ever use of a Raquel
Welch art poster. Ever.I highly encourage this movie to anyone who hasn't seen it. It is a
classic, and the acting is superb. Even smallest roles are memorable.

******
3 September 2006
10
This is one of the best stories of freedom in the world. It shows how
the human heart can work to get you out of the worst situations. Sure i
never cried during watching it but it made me feel good.This movie tells a tale back in 1949, a man is convicted of the murder
of his wife and her lover(sound familiar 'Green Mile'/Stephen King
fans?). Of course with all Stephen King's twisted books/movies... he
didn't do it but he is sent to prison anyway. Since prisoners were
thought of lesser human in the 40's-70's if you were caught doing
something you weren't suppose to(or if yo u just annoy the guards) you
are beaten badly. Luckily Andy Dufrense makes acquaintances with the
warden and guards. He makes friends with 'Red' Redding(Nicely done by Morgan Freeman), a
man who can get you anything from the outside. They bond together with
other inmates and conquer over the warden. BUT one day a new inmate
comes in and tells the story of how he knows Andy is instant.The rest people can figure out for their own but they have to be
careful... though this is one of Stephen King's rare dramas, it will
have the evilness and twists that we all love him for. Plus look for
the most feel good ending in the world. I'm honest this ending will
shock you so much and make you want to know more of what happened.

******
2 September 2006
10
am i one of the few who watched this at a cinema? Watched at the now
closed Odeon, Haymarket on a Wednesday when I had nothing better to do
and know very little about the film apart from a Geordie mate kept
raving about it. With limited expectations, I came out totally
enthralled by a magnificent cinematic experience - one that you all too
rarely enjoy. To me you have to take inspiration from Defrene; no
matter how tough your situation is, you need to focus on what you want
to achieve and retain the belief that your dreams can come true. The
scene on top of the roof, drinking beer is tops. Only wish I knew where
my son has posted the DVD! We have to watch it on video now!

******
20 August 2006
10
I don't want to say anything about the movie. I'm sure that you will
enjoy it as much as I did. There are a lot of movies showing prison
breaks but by far this one is the best not by the idea of the escape
but by the message that this movie is sending. Once you've seen it you
will feel different. I didIf you like Prison Break, if you liked Escape from Alcatraz you
definitely want to see this movie.Tim Robbins is doing an extraodrinary job and the screenplay is
awesome. For sure 2 hours well spent in my life. And not only one ;)If you can grab the 2004 release. Almost every error and goofs were
fixed so you'll get the better version of it !

******
20 August 2006
10
If you have never seen this film do your self a favour, go rent the DVD
now and prepare to have yourselves one of the best evenings
entertainment you are ever likely to have in front of a TV set. Right
from the opening scenes when you see the dramatic sweeping aerial shots
of the prison you know that you are in for something special. When I
first read the synopsis for this film, and saw it described as a brutal
prison drama I thought it wasn't the kind of film I would enjoy. Boy
was I wrong I think that Shawshank is the best film I have ever seen.
Its much more than a brutal prison drama it's a film of friendship,
injustice, resolve and most of all hope. The film tells the story of
Andy wrongly convicted and imprisoned for the murder of his wife and
her lover and the friendship he forms with Red a long serving inmate.
Andy isn't like most of the other prisoners he's quiet, educated, plays
chess and has a middle class background. Red is from the streets a
seasoned prisoner who serves his time with weary resignation. Their
unlikely friendship blossoms and grows in to love, of the non-sexual
type, and it's this bond this friendship that is the centre of the
film. The performances given by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are
astounding, sorry Tom Hanks but I think Morgan/Tim were robbed of the
Oscar that year. I love the tag line from the film "Fear can hold you
prisoner but hope can set you free" WOW an amazing, moving triumph of a
film, if you haven't seen it yet what are you waiting for! Watching The
Shawshank Redemption is one of those things you have to do before you
die.

******
31 July 2006
10
A heartbreaking story fraught with Passion, Loss, A Dream, and
Friendship. There's only so much i can say about a film that is loved
by millions and yet misunderstood by more. It's the visual version of a
musical ballad. A soft and thoughtful piece and yet created by a hard
centre and churned by the brilliant hands of Frank Darabont and the
great acting of both Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. A True Classic."Andy Dufresne, is sent to Shawshank Prison for the murder of his wife
and secret lover. He is very isolated and lonely at first, but realises
there is something deep inside your body, that people can't touch and
get to....'HOPE'. Andy becomes friends with prison 'fixer' Red (Morgan
Freeman), and Andy epitomises why it is crucial to have dreams. His
spirit and determination, leads us into a world full of imagination,
filled with courage and desire. Will Andy ever realise his dreams...?"

******
13 May 2006
10
This is possibly the best film ever made. Everything from the script
and acting to the camera work and set are remarkable. Based on a
Stephen King novella, it is easily the best adaption from a written
story ever put to film. Tim Robbin's certainly deserved an Oscar for
this film, his performance was moving yet not overpowering. Even though
the audience is left out of the story in certain parts, we still feel
strongly for his character Andy Dufresne. Morgan Freeman is perfect,
even though he's not the Irishman that was intended for the role. He
narrates the film with ease and we connect to his character as if we
were a part of the movie. Frank Darabont, director of the film, allowed
us to feel what Andy was feeling through the use of small stories and
camera shots. The immensity of the prison can be felt instantly from
our first viewing. The connection the audience makes to the film as a
whole makes The Shawshank Redemption what it is: one of the best films
ever made.

******
3 May 2006
10
I'm not going to say anything about the movie and how great it was. It
was and IS the greatest movie ever made.But i just wonder, why all the good movies are made in 1994. All my
favorite movies are made back in 1994. Maverick, Forrest Gump and
Shawshank Redemption. All of these movies are my favorites. No doubt
about it. And specially Shawshank Redemption.But back to 21st century. Why the Hollywood are not producing good
decent movies anymore? I think it's all about the money, they want to
make big profits, they just don't care about anything else. Quick
movies, big profits, a lot of audience. What else do you need??? I
think people need to see some ART. It would be great to see similar
movies again. And i don't mean similar by plot, they must move your
heart similarly.Shawshank Redemption gave me so much inspiration what to do with my
life and i'm going to do it. Dreaming is bad if there's no hope. At
least i have some hope and it keeps me alive.

******
3 May 2006
10
After watching useless film after useless film, I always come back to
this. It acts as a benchmark and I must remind myself to watch it more
as I find myself become more accommodating to the rubbish which is
being released these days. How many films do you find yourself counting
the minutes till the end or where the media has created a publicity
storm to cloak the fact their film isn't worth the huge budget they
spent on it? After watching King Kong at Christmas I felt depressed, as
here was a truly bloated, poorly acted, lazily directed, piece of film
which was getting rave reviews from the critics and public alike.
Please feel free to argue against me, but the fact that so few are
willing to state the obvious, that the film wasn't great, just alright
at best, highlights a continuing trend in todays society, that of
applauding mediocrity.

******
7 January 2006
9
This film, a modern fable, is an amazing success story - not in
monetary terms, but in terms of reputation. It began as just another of
many dramas, in this case based on a Stephen King story, and has
emerged as possibly the best film of the decade, the '90s (#2 of the
IMDb top 250 as of this writing, right up there with The Godfather!).
The story begins as another prison drama but gradually metamorphoses
into a poetic commentary on friendship and the scope of life. The main
character (Robbins) is sent to prison in the late forties for
supposedly murdering his wife. It really is a men's picture; there are
literally no female characters (the wife appears for a few seconds
early on in flashback and that's about it, besides a complaining
shopper later; oh, and, of course, Rita Hayworth pops in as herself).
The film holds many surprises in store for the viewer as the story
progresses, not the least of which is the subtle revelation, towards
the end, that the main character may just be Freeman's (how appropriate
is that name!). If one had to pick one reason for this film's success
(and there are probably several), it's that it's probably the best
depiction of friendship between men on celluloid - no cutesy
buddy-buddy stuff, no homo-erotic connotations - just a solid, adult
basis for two men to bond over and remain friends.But there are many other, I dare say, cool aspects to the film. Most
everyone who has seen this has at least two or three favorite scenes
which they remember forever and which they watch over and over. My
personal favorite is the one on the roof, where Andy (Robbins) makes
his bid for a slightly better existence, taking a big risk with the
captain of the guards (Clancy Brown, always intimidating). It's a
turning point in the picture and shows two important matters recurring
through it: taking a risk and using your intelligence. Andy turns out
to be very smart; he's always using his head. And the ultimate
switchback of the picture, the comeuppance of the evil warden (Bob
Gunton, excellent as scum dressed in pricey suits), shows you that a
film doesn't need a standard shootout to depict the ultimate justice or
retribution. No, if you use your brains, you can really get back at
those oppressive forces seeking to dehumanize you, abuse you, and lord
over you. Boy, can you get them back. I mean really - has there ever
been a bigger turnaround in the history of cinema? OK, maybe this is
why this film is rated so high - you just can't get a better release
from frustration than this, not on film. Here, payback isn't just a
bitch - she's the daughter of Satan sent to take you to hell.Another thing to mention is that this film covers about 20 years of
time. That's a long stretch. The film itself is over 2 hours running
time. Most films, even the best ones, with so much to cover, can't help
but sag in places, especially historical pieces. But that's not the
case here. Writer-director Darabont, who also worked on the even longer
"The Green Mile" later, shows us how to create films which are always
interesting to watch, whether at the one hour or 2-hour mark. Or am I
being obtuse?

******
1 November 2005
10
Every time I watch this movie Its like watching it for the first time.
Everything about it works the characters the story and the direction.
This movie should be number 1 on IMDb.com. Tim Robbins gives an
excellent performance and Andy a man accused and sent to prison for
killing his wife a man she was having an affair with. Robbins provides
a subtle quality to his character which has a lot of depth though not
entirely apparent on the surface you can tell it is there. Morgan
Freeman Plays the character red as well as narration for the story. His
voice provides a very powerful way of pushing the story forward which
combined with an excellent score finishes off the movie and makes it a
must see for anyone.

******
31 October 2005
10
beautiful overhead shot of prison. Roger Deakins is a god. king has
never been treated so soft or tenderly. dialogue is sentimental. Too
so? yeah. music is smooth and sweet. the over-all posture stood is
unexpectedly tough. green mile was a sad shadow of this previous vastly
superior effort.the Brooks Hatlen interlude was a welcome beat.
meandering is a virtue. i get lost in it's world for a sec. which is
rare. the ending makes me cry. freeman is an exceedingly wonderful
actor. strange feelings of elation near ending as if something has
occurred. Things which haven't. magic of pure Hollywood-style cinema.
samo

******
15 October 2005
8
Shawshank IS a very good film but it has too many cliché characters and
situations AND script holes that one can drive a truck through. Gee,
this must be from a Stephen King story. Actually, it's from two of his
short stories. With King its often quantity and not quality. Despite
that, The Shawshank Redemption is worthwhile.What this film does have is terrific performances from the entire cast
and a sense that an honest man can remain honest, despite the worst of
circumstances. The scenes with the great character actor James
Whitmore, especially those of his trying to cope after his release, are
very well done.The last ten minutes is splendid and almost redeems the rest of the
picture. It gives this film an 8 instead of a 6 in my scale.

******
12 October 2005
10
The Shawkshank Redemption's - Review Get busy living get busy dying! Is
merely one of the many great messages this 1994 masterpiece has to
offer. Originally written as a short story by Stephen King 'The
Shawkshank Redemption' has come to be one of the greatest movies of all
time being nominated for 7 Oscars, and winning 11 various other awards.
Directed by Frank Darabont it stars Tim Robbins as 'Andy Dufresne' and
Morgan Freeman as 'Red'. This earlier 19th century film is delivered to
its audience directly through the eyes of 'Red' giving us a strong one
mined impersonation of the prison and the people who make up its walls.The life that Andy once had drastically changed when he is charged
guilty for the murder of his wife and her lover. Made to serve 2 life
sentences Andy soon got to grips with his new surroundings. But one day
he pushes aside all moral judgement on one decision that almost as him
killed but his heroism and sheer courage gains him respect from other
inmates at which point he slowly becomes good friends with 'Red' the
man who can get you things. With 'Hope' on his side Andy goes on to do
great things! The movie rests deeply on the persona built up around
Andy. To some respect the filmmakers regarded him as a religious symbol
and used brief yet powerful references to reflect on this. He would
take up massive challenges helping out the majority all so that I could
simply create a sense of freedom or retained hope in his life. He
conveys a particular demeanour that people tend to associate with
'Christ' and as 'red' quite rightly says, "He strolled. Like a man in a
park without a care or worry".'Character Development' is a complete different term altogether in this
movie, taking us as far into the unknown. Darabont encouraged something
different, with twists and turns in the story we are continually struck
with new surprises. By pushing boundaries of modern day cinema,
Darabont exercised in presenting us with new, interesting but most
importantly feel-good and exiting Characters. This would have never
been possible without the powerful and striking performances from both
'Tim Robbins' and 'Morgan Freeman', as individuals they play there
separate roles with a convincing harmony. But as a pair they pitch
together as if you were husband and wife, the acting is flawless there
chemistry works in perfect balance and there absolute ability to grasp
the audience in continuous narrative is something that is rarely
witnessed in a movie.While the characters are unbelievably amazing and the script is
excellent, it's the extraordinary way this movie uses cinematography to
give us a hardened view into the reality of this film. Thick walls,
large inescapable fences, and confined spaces all remind us of this
place we have been brought to. This is spanned onwards with the common
use of relentless Guards marching and the heavy cell bars slamming open
and shut. In a way reinforcing the dull existence these men have to
live with. This is all backed by outstanding crane and helicopter shots
from the Coen Brother arguably some of the best camera work to date,
the lighting brought not only outstanding quality from the work but it
helped to create meaning and build layers deep into the story. Finally
the editing was set at a perfect pace and even with regular leaps into
future the team manages to maintain a high standard from beginning to
end.It is considered as a feel-good classic. But in hindsight thoughts four
walls hold a more grime, corrupt and depressing existences. But it is
the exultance of Writer/Director Frank Darabont who unlike most
directors forces on the real human issues head on, dealing the problems
of male rape, assault, murder, and abuse in a very effective way. But
by encouraging more enthuses on the strong emotional relationships
created between you and the characters Darabont was able to stray
audiences away from this harsh reality into uplifting portrayals of
Andy and his great achievements.Its quite amazing to think how such a great movie would fail to make an
impact on the big screen and would only pick up fame after it was
realised to video in 1995. But its success was well received and people
soon began to understand what they had been missing. But its only now
10 years on that we begin to see how its success continues to be
harvested and filtered through into many modern day movies.My Personal Rating for this Movie 9/10

******
10 October 2005
6
I simply cannot understand why this film is so highly regarded. I
wanted to watch it because it had such a good write-up, was long, had
great actors and sounded interesting. And it was... relatively
interesting. But probably a slightly better than average film. Like
'The Green Mile' it should have been better. It was not emotional or
harrowing enough. There was some silly part of the film that descended
into a fiscal documentary!!!? 'Patch Adams' is much better. The most
interesting theme was that prisoners become totally institutionalised
and there were some good moments but overall it was a bit too clichéd.
It would have been better with a more satisfying finale and a cracking,
string-led score from James Horner or Hans Zimmer.

******
7 October 2005
10
This could be the greatest movie ever. It's hard to believe anyone can
watch it and not be touched by it in some way. Who can't identify with
the conception of hope, truly the foundation of this picture. There is
so much raw emotion, and the movie bears upon many. With such brilliant
performances by the cast, and the amazing job done by Frank Darabont
and co., the viewer becomes immersed in the film, and feels each of
those emotions. It becomes a very personal experience that way. I've not discussed this movie with anyone, at any length, that didn't
love it. It is worthy of every bit of acclaim it continues to receive.
I can't say that The Shawshank Redemption has changed my life as it has
for some, but every time I watch it I'm drawn in again. And every time
I run the emotional gamut it takes us through. It is the one film of
which I will never tire. -Jason Stanley

******
2 October 2005
10
This movie is the greatest prison movie I have ever seen. The storyline
is original and the performance of Tim Robbins is superb. The movie is
about Andy Dufresne is convicted of the double murder of his wife and
her lover and tells the story of his double life sentence behind bars
at Shawshank prison which uses religion as a form of rehabilitation.
During his sentence he is bashed constantly for three years until he
meets a fellow inmate Ellis "Red" Redding who is asked by Dufresne to
help him escape. With his escape comes the signature scene as Andy
escapes through the sewers to freedom. The end of the film highlights
the ability of two friends to overcome adversity to achieve a central
goal. The screenplay is superb as this is based on the novel by one of
the best or the best horror of all time, Stephen King. The movie is a
movie that explores the REAL story behind bars and the ability of
people to escape mentally and spiritually with rehabilitation

******
2 October 2005
10
Watched The Shawshank Redemption again this evening - what a wonderful
story from beginning to end and. I was intrigued at the end of the
credits to see that the film was dedicated to Allan Greene. Does anyone
know who he was? I would be grateful for any information. I found the
story within this film demonstrated the human feelings of
despair,helplessness ; anger going on to forward thinking, planning and
hope. Hope that a human being could overcome the corruption and cruelty
by being a lot more clever than the those who only sought to deal in
the destruction of the soul. The tenacity of a man able to withstand 20
years chipping away with a rock hammer in order to attempt freedom in a
place where freedom was a word never even contemplated.

******
30 September 2005
10
I wholeheartedly agree with reismark's review of the film. It is
excellent. I want to note, however, as the treasurer of a library
system, that people should remember that rental and purchasing are not
the only options. If you learn about your local libraries, you'll find
that many of them, perhaps most of them, have collections of video on
VHS and DVD which rival rental stores. In most instances, these
materials circulate without charge, although some libraries charge a
nominal fee to rent very recent titles. In the library system to which
I belong, even rental titles are potentially available free, since we
insist that there must be at least ONE copy in the system which
circulates without a fee.

******
27 September 2005
9
I saw this movie at the end of a particularly bad and miserable day in
my life and it is safe to say that I was not particularly looking
forward to this one.Two and a half hours later I was on my feet again and was once more
prepared to look the world in the eyes. Such is the power of this
movie.Tim Robbins plays a sincere man who is sent to to jail for a crime he
did not commit. Inside, he meets extraordinary human beings, all of who
you will fall in love with within minutes of meeting them. Chief among
these is the character of Red, played by none other than the legendary
Morgan Freeman.Together with Andy and Red you learn about life and friendship and the
evils inherent in human nature. You laugh with them, are sad with them
and feel their pain, and in the end, when the two friends meet again on
a remote beach years later, you finally break down and cry with them.This movie is emotionally powerful and reminds us once again what the
movies should be.It is not sentimental in any way, and that is a rarity these days. And
if you do not feel sad, and your heart does not beat faster with Morgan
Freeman's soliloquoy at the end, you cannot call yourself human. For,
then, you have missed one of the greatests gifts one can receive: a
passion for life.

******
22 September 2005
9
I have seen this movie twice and I enjoyed it as much the second time
as I did the first time. Of course the surprise-effect is gone the
second time because you know how the story goes, but that isn't a
problem. The story is brilliant: it's amazing how clever Andy is! The
acting is outstanding. Morgan Freeman proves again he is a top-talent
and also Tim Robbins is wonderful.The story has everything: it's very sensitive and it shows some aspects
of prison that aren't shown in other prison movies. It think (but I'm
not sure because I have never been in prison) it gives a unique, but
realistic view on the prison life and the many feelings prisoners are
confronted with doing their time. The example of very tragic but so
true I think. The guy has been his whole life in prison, that's the
only life he knows and when he is released, he doesn't know how to
built up a life in the real world because the world he know before
prison doesn't exist anymore.Frank Darabont proves he is a remarkable director and that he is made
for directing prison-movies. "The Green Mile" is also an excellent and
touching prison drama. It almost unbelievable that "The Shawshank
Redemption" didn't won any Academy Award. But of course you can't deny
that fact that the competition was fierce that year with also "Forrest
Gump" in the running.Highly recommendable prison-drama with great acting performances by
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins.9/10

******
21 September 2005
10
I hope you watch this film, and you are found better for it. This movie is all about acting in the best interest of yourself and
others, and the evil that checks our good motive. Morgan Freeman plays
the role of a lifetime, and that's saying a lot because Morgan has had
quite a few outstanding performances. I do think this was his best. The
reason I think that are the extremes that Freeman's character goes
through from utter despair ("somestimes all I can think about is ...")
to highest hope.The movie does so many things well, but the two most important for me
were Freeman's Narration as a whole ("tall drink of water") and the use
of the letter device through narration. Freeman narrating the letter
which read,"I hope this letter finds you well," is one of the most
pleasant lines I think I have even heard in any movie. It had to make
Freeman's character feel better about "his friend" (though he may not
have needed that), but it is as if Andy Dufresne knew that Red would be
struggling, and he needed the feeling of calmness to get him through
this period. The treasure hunt device and the physical scene of that
device is movie making at it's finest. The shot up the hill to the tree
(great focal point), the stone wall, it was all perfect.I would that we all would find our friend on the beach of self content
for fond embrace.

******
15 September 2005
10
This movie is perfect in construction, with just the right amount of
feel-goodiness added but not so much as to make one wretch. A portrait
of the strength of the human spirit, and the awesome power of hope. I
love the feeling of hope that this movie inspires in the viewer. I
haven't met anyone who doesn't love it (still awaiting the DVD's return
as I lent it to a friend about 4 months ago!) The only negative comment
I've ever heard about it is the ending. Some die-hards think the movie
should end with Red in the coach on his way to find Andy, but not show
their meeting on the beach as its too corny. I disagree. I think that
after the whole battle to escape, and wondering if they will etc,
people needed the closure that seeing them meet offered. If they'd
hugged and cried that would have been too much for me, but it was done
perfectly. With Red, casually strolling down the beach towards Andy and
starting to laugh. I'm getting goose-bumps just thinking about it now.My favourite movie.

******
14 September 2005
10
Outstanding. Never has a film gripped so powerfully before. Some films
are great and hold you well enough, but this absolute powerhouse of a
film keeps me glued, and is a great tribute to Hollywood, the great
Stephen King short story, and of course a great tribute to all the
things that make hope and freedom so wonderful. Tim Robbins gives the
performance of his life, as Andy Dufresne. A strong-headed man who is
sent to Shawshank prison, wrongfully accused of "murdering his wife,
and the fellow she was banging." With that in mind, it is
excruciatingly tense and powerful, as we watch Andy adapt to prison
life, form a beautiful friendship with 'Red' the convict who knows how
to get things, (played brilliantly by Morgan Freeman, who in my opinion
deserved to win the Best Actor Oscar) and of course see him handle
himself around those out to get him, which spans from other prisoners
to the warden, who he helps turn the prison into a business, due to his
good experience as a banker, the occupation which he held before being
convicted. But as the picture goes on, you can see the yearning to get
out. He is a bird that has been caged wrongfully, and when you see how
long he has been locked away for, even though he didn't do it it really
makes for stunning and compelling viewing. The ending is beautifully
scripted, and the mood is outstanding. Frank Darabont has created an
exceptional film, with realistic talents and people we can care for.
The stereotype of the prisoner is made into something better, and the
overall experience of this film is magnificent, with fantastic
memorable quotes, and an exchange of good to bad atmosphere, which at
one point makes you feel good watching it, but then shows the awful
atrocities and seriousness of the situation. This complex style of
direction and storytelling is amazing, and the ending is top notch, I
won't spoil this bit though. You wanna know how good it is? Then watch
it and be dazzled by this truly remarkable film. 10/10

******
12 September 2005
10
A Prison Movie. An all-male cast (except for Rita Hayworth). Violence.
A title guaranteed to sprain your jaw. When Shawshank hit theatres in
1994, odds were decidedly against it becoming a huge success. It would
be nice to think that an ultimately upbeat, earnest, modernist take on
the films of Frank Capra would immediately find a sympathetic and
appreciative audience. But that would be a fairy tale, and life, like
prison, is no fairy tale.The film has the cheek to ask Which is worse, being a murderer, or
being a lousy husband? Certainly the audience must ask itself this of
the main character, Andy, played by Tim Robbins, who is sent to
Shawshank Prison in 1947 for the murder of his wife and her lover.
Introverted, bookish, proud, his fate is uncertain until he attracts
the attention of the prison "finder" Red, played by Morgan Freeman.
Together the two men must find emotional healing, spiritual redemption,
and hope, if they are to survive.Adroit and expertly manipulative, the film's pace is dictated by the
deathless narration of Freeman, who could hold an audience spellbound
while reciting phone book listings; or, suspend utter disbelief at a
patently preposterous storyline. Nor are characterizations any less
preposterous, from the sociopathic Warden, to the sadistic Head Guard,
to the grandfatherly Librarian, to the manic-youthful Young Punk. But
if the characters seem too archetypal to be true, it is a necessary,
and tolerable evil in this fairy-tale set in a prison.As I said, life is no fairy-tale, and prison movies rarely get to
top-ten status. But sometimes some good does prevail, and redemption
often stands in wait for those who dare reach out to it. As a first-run
cinematic release Shawshank was not a great success. But as a
commercial video, the film has achieved high status, and is voted year
after year as a top consumer favorite. Cinematically near-perfect,
visually breathtaking, Shawshank is a state-of-the-art example of the
power of film to tell stories, and is rightly considered a must-see by
most film reviewers.

******
11 September 2005
10
One night when i was browsing through the channels and my dad was doing
laundry. The Shawshank Redemption came up and he said it was one of his
favorite films. I had no idea why until i watched it. The movies
performances, specifically Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, are both
incredibly complex and are both Oscar quality. The set of the prison
and supporting cast and extras are all masterfully organized. The story
is crisp and original, and has deep emotion to it. This movie received
7 Oscar nominations and won none, i believe because Forrest Gump stole
all the thunder. But if it were my choice, The Shawshank Redemption
would have won Best Picture and is in my mind the best film i have ever
seen.

******
10 September 2005
10
Awe-inspiring...an amazing emotional journey and a great philosophical
piece. A true work of art. But where do I start? The casting is
excellent, the characters all mesh seamlessly and effortlessly into the
storyline and the interactions seem real and believable throughout. The
philosophical connotations that the movie brings with it are thought
provoking; showing the shades of society, not as blacks and whites (as
in good and bad, not as race) but as shades of grey. The reversal of
expected integrity of character comparing the guards and the inmates is
excellent and adds depth to the story and something to think about. It
shows the good and evil that exist on 'both sides of the fence' so to
speak. The imagery and visual artistry throughout the entire film is
done flawlessly. The drab neutral colours (yes colours... I'm Canadian)
of the prison itself and the clothing of both the guards and the
inmates set the stage for the dreary and sometimes dark undertones for
the story quite well. I am not old enough to know whether the type of
weapons, outfits, vehicles etc. used as props in the movie are accurate
but they seemed to be in my eyes and fit the time period. I could go on
but words alone do not do the movie justice, you have to go see it.

******
10 September 2005
10
Best movie ever made. From the beginning to the end this movie is so
perfect it's hard to put it into words, every little detail is
stunning. Maybe my opinion is not the most objective because this has
been my favorite movie for quite some time, but however, I remembered
the first time I saw it. I could't get it of my mind for a couple of
days. And still, after seeing it over 20 times, I often think about it
and smile. The part when Andy escapes and the next 30 minutes after
that you can't stop smiling, it's so perfect. The biggest star must go
to Morgan Freeman who gives this movie even more deep and feeling. To
everyone who haven't seen it yet, do it, you will not regret it.

******
5 September 2005
10
Must see, please do not read the reviews on this movie until you have
seen it, you would repent your decision if you came to know the story.So much detailed, full of suspense - yet nobody could guess what (the
hell) was going on! The poster, small hammer (or whatever), the book
keeping - and above all the HOPE - I am so much impressed by this film.
It never looked like a movie of such a fantastic end. Well, one could
guess that Andy (Tim) might not have murdered his wife, but it was
difficult to imagine the depth in story. I am inclined to read the
novel now. Would you believe, this movie was recommended by the DVD
shop owner, who I thought was interested only in the hit (read
well-known) movies.

******
2 September 2005
10
Like many people I didn't bother seeing this movie when it was in
theaters, and then I forgot about it, it wasn't till many years later
that I decided to give this movie a chance.After reading all the praises for this movie I decided to rent it. The
first time I watched it I fell asleep, I was bored out of my mind. A
couple of months past I decided to give it a second chance and watched
it all the way through and thought, what was so great about that movie,
nothing special. Another couple of months pass and I spot the 10th
anniversary ed. for sale, so I bought it because I liked the artwork on
the cover. I saw it for the third time and I fell in love with it. It's
definitely one of my favorite movies of all time.Why the academy didn't award this masterpiece an award is beyond me.
The directing is perfect, it's perfectly casted and acted, every actor
is believable in their roles, the story, adapted from a short story by
Steven king is what stands out. This is the ultimate movie about hope;
never give up hope no matter what.I've noticed many people bashing this movie, I say just give it a
chance, I thought it was crap on my first viewing; it wasn't until my
third viewing that I realized how incredible this movie was.This movie changed my life. Whenever I'm going through a hard time in
my life, I pop in this movie and realize that no matter what you're
going through, you can come out clean on the other side.

******
31 August 2005
10
When Andy Dufresne, a young and successful banker, discovers his wife
in bed with another man his life takes a dramatic turn for the worse.
When the lovers' bodies are discovered, shot repeatedly with bullets
from a gun linked to Andy, he becomes wrongly imprisoned. Sent to a
maximum security prison run by a corrupt and over-zealous religious
warden he struggles to hang on to hope of returning to the outside
world and reclaiming a sense of normality. After a period of isolation
he finally approaches one of the other inmates, a convict called Red
who is the only person in Shawshank Prison guilty of their crime. What
begins as a business partnership between two characters, who would be
unlikely to cross paths in the real world, quickly turns into a
lifelong friendship. Together they manage to fight impossible odds to
survive and prove that both hope and the possibility for redemption
never die.I have heard many people rave about 'The Shawshank Redemption' over the
years but have only just gotten around to watching it myself, and the
praise heaped upon this film scarcely do it justice. This is not just
the story of a man wrongly imprisoned, or the astonishing reality of
life behind bars, but an emotional drama which reels you in from the
onset. The movie is quite lengthy however I found myself unable to
press the stop button as the level of interest was maintained steadily
throughout, and I kept wanting to "watch a bit more". It has been a
long time since I have actually cried while watching a film or sat on
the edge of my seat literally in suspense, but 'The Shawshank
Redemption' managed to make me do both.The characters are what make this movie brilliant and the casting of
Morgan Freeman as Red and Tim Robbins as Andy was spot on. They managed
to convince me that I was watching real life and actual circumstances
rather than just a realistic portrayal of the prison world. Their
reactions and behaviour were original but suited the film, and really
highlighted how easy it can be to become a victim but that you do not
have to accept that role forever.I felt inspired by the ideas raised and loved how my mind was
encouraged to consider certain beliefs and rules in society. This movie
challenges some of the toughest issues facing us in the modern age,
even though the film was set over a period from the 1940's  1980's.
Frank Darabont has produced an excellent movie which does not
disappoint in any way. I would recommend 'The Shawshank Redemption' to
anyone over the age of about 15 as a brilliant and enlightening drama.

******
26 August 2005
10
I bought this film just due to its high score on IMDb. I was not
disappointed. My comment to my wife after seeing this, was "nothing
actually happened, but I could still not take my eyes from the screen".
This movie works like emotional magic to a guy who normally swears to
action, horror and FX movies. Hats off to the actors, the script writer
and the director.And no hats off to the IMDb people who make me write 10 lines. I don't
care if I'm banned from writing more reviews by adding these final
meaningless lines. I've used IMDb since it was born, and this is the
first time I've actually felt like telling the world a movie is worth
watching. It's probably also the last time, so just ban me from
commenting further.

******
25 August 2005
10
Having to compete that year with such films as Forrest Gump(Also
Excellent), Quiz Show(Brilliant) and Pulp Fiction(Disturbing yet a
killer) Many people have shadowed this film that delivers important
morals and mixed emotions. The film has a dark side to but the
narration calms it side down. The film is feel good because you feel
that justice has been served every time Andy has had his way. It is sad
because you realize how heartless the staff of the prison is. Morgan
Freeman delivers an absolutely impressive performance as a jail bird
and so does Tim Robbins who plays a shy "fish" who evolves into an
important jail man. They pull off the roles brilliantly. I did not even
imagine a film like this was possible. If you have not seen this movie
yet rent as soon as you can. I have never met a person who has not
enjoyed The Shawshank Redemption. The Narration plays a big part in why
the movie is liked by myself and many others. Goodfellas, Dances With
Wolves, Forrest Gump also carried brilliant narration but Morgan
Freeman's warm voice seems to beat all the others. The Shawshank
Redemption is the most well written picture I have ever seen because it
depicts the prisoners not as groups but as families, not as criminals
but as victims and deserved more hype then it received.It's just brilliant: the film, narration and actors

******
23 August 2005
10
I like this movie for the following reasons. first its screen play is
perfect. The hero acted in a correct fashion. He lived the character.
Through out the movie he displays a balanced mind. I like the movie
because it talks about hope and how hope will bring happiness. I always
used to think about it when ever I lose hope in doing some work or in
solving my own problems. The two characters Hero and his friend were
shown of opposite in nature. Hero always talks about hope and his
friend talks opposite to hope. This makes me feel what really life will
be without hope and with hope. One more thing It teaches is It does not
matter where we are but what we do.

******
23 August 2005
10
If you were to explain why this film is so good by simply explaining
the plot there is no way that you could do this film justice.This is
because the plot is simple as it's a story of two friends developing a
friendship while they are in prison.However by keeping the plot simple
you are really given a chance to connect with the two main characters
Andy and red and can feel a great sense of empathy towards them
both.However the real high point of the film is the ending which seems
as rewarding an ending as any film i have ever seen.After watching the
film it really does give a sense of happiness and hope.It is a simply
superb film and my favourite movie ever.

******
11 August 2005
9
After watching this movie, you come to think about how important and
valuable your freedom really is.I think everyone should watch this movie. The story is very well shown
and played, the actors were amazing and I didn't see any failure except
that eventually, the end goes by really fast, but maybe it's better
like this, when the happy things aren't described, your imagination can
make the most wonderful story out of it.On the not so good series, I'd point the captain of the guards, who
seemed to have some good feelings at some moments of the movie, and who
ended killing the young guy in such a pitiful and disappointing way.
Also the director of Shawshank died without getting what he should have
receive for being such a bastard, which was quite unfair.But well, the worst punishment you could get, is not physical, nor
material, it's when you discover you ruined your life, and lost your
time.I gave this movie a 9, because nobody and nothing is perfect.I can guarantee that you won't regret watching this, even if it takes
away 2 hours of your free time, this movie could make you realize how
to spend the remaining ones of your life in the most clever way.GO FREEDOM ! :-)

******
7 August 2005
10
We were supposed to read The Shawshank Redemption book for English
class, at first my classmates (also myself) thought that this would be
a boring story. We were wrong. The book is incredible, stephen king is
a genius, but moreover, the movie was brilliant, never before in my
life I've seen such movie with an excellent plot, excellent actors and
an excellent direction, this is by far one of the greatest movies of
all time (along with a clockwork orange), I'm just a fan of it, here in
Chile we don't get to see many books by this author but what the hell,
a great book and a excellent movie, should be considered the greatest
movie of all time :D

******
7 August 2005
10
This movie is easily the best movie ever made. The plot is one that's
been told before but a completely different twist on how life in prison
is one hard to leave once used to it. To quote Morgan Freeman
(Red),"These walls are funny first you hate them, then you get used to
them, and then you can't live without them." It's the story of Andy
Dufrain who killed his Wife and her lover and is put in jail for life.It's the story of how you go to prison for life and that is exactly
what they take from you. It shows the story of conspiracy and murder
and always holds your attention. It is a long movie but not once do you
want it to end. It's the story of friendship between Andy and Red and
how you should always keep your promises to your friends.The symbolism was phenomenal and a movie that once you finish it. You
want to rewind it and watch it again. "Get busy livin, or get busy
dyin."

******
6 August 2005
10
I had originally owned this film on VHS. It grew on me to where I was
watching it nearly once a week. The tape had gotten so bad that I could
no longer enjoy the film. i have replaced my VHS tape with the 10th
year anniversary two-disc special edition and i have really enjoyed the
many extras made available. The commentaries from Tim Robbins, Morgan
Freeman and others contribute so much more that i would recommend to
the first time viewer, if there are any, to view these bonus tracks
prior to the movie. The extras sell the film all over again. I continue
to watch this film a couple of times a month. The film lifts my spirits
and jump starts my soul. Thank you Frank Darabont. oh, and Stephen King
for a great experience with this film which has become one of my all
time favorites...

******
1 August 2005
9
Rarely has a director connected so well to the spirit of a story, and
with the impeccable work of Morgan Freeman, whose narration is nothing
short of perfect, and Tim Robbins' everyman, "Shawshank" delivers an
almost perfect film. Frank Darabont has opened up the short story and
created a work that explores what lurks in the souls of people. He has
added details that allow us to understand how the human spirit manages
to survive in the worst of conditions. He also shows us that beauty
lies in just about any place in this world.The film moves very well, taking us for a long and rewarding ride.
Characters age and evolve, discovering how their relationships with
others always have consequences. Tim Robbins remains at the center, and
he becomes, for most of the film, an observer, our representative in a
world that could destroy you if you let it.We relate to the men of "Shawshank" because they are our
representatives in a microcosm of society. We observe as we participate
and see our reflections in a mini study of emotions and mind games.

******
29 July 2005
10
The Shawshank Redemption is without a doubt my favourite film of all
time. Ranked 2 in the top 250 films it is clear others agree with me.
And when you watch this you will too. The plot may sound familiar (guy
goes to jail, guy escapes jail) but this is nothing like i have seen
before. It's about Andy Dufresnes (Tim Robbins) determination and
persistence which keeps him going through his 19 years. But the film is
also about Ellis Boyd Redding (Morgan Freeman) commonly known as "Red".
He does not claim innocence and is the only guilty man in Shawkshank.
When Dufresne arrives Red makes a bet he'd be first to crack. But Andy
stays strong which surprises Red. He uses this strength to keep going
day after day and he passes this feeling onto Red when he tells him of
a box planted under the tree. This gives Red some hope, It gives him
something to look forward to and that will keep him going day by day.
Without Andy Red would have nothing in life. And when you have nothing
in life like Brooks did... There is nothing to keep you going onto the
next day. This film is brilliantly scripted. The acting is top class
and you get the feel of the innocent man amongst the guilty. The
corrupt guards and wardens add to Andys story of wrong convictions and
unfairly treated. He just happens to be the only innocent man in
Shawshank.

******
26 July 2005
10
The performance by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins in this movie is so
incredible realistic that you are really ought to believe this story is
true, as said in the end. Not just a 'one-to-watch', the best movie
ever, which, in my honest opinion, beats the godfather with ease! I
cannot tell anything about the movie, because I'll mess up the story
for the ones that haven't seen the movie yet, but believe me, the twist
in the end of the movie, it's just fascinating... The whole person of
Dufresne is fascinating, the calmth in his whole appearance, the way
he's living his life in jail, in one word fascinating. The same thing
goes for Morgan Freeman though, it is just incredible, wonderful,
fascinating... Just... Just watch it. You'll love it.

******
21 July 2005
10
If there is one word which entails the entire message of this film, it
is HOPE. Though I have never been a Stephen King fan, this is one story
which makes him deserve accolades over and over again. When I was
watching the movie, halfway through it, I admit I was bored. And when
Tommy (Gil Bellows) was shot, I was like "Who the hell recommended me
this movie??". But still I just wanted to get this movie over with, so
I watched further. And when that scene comes where the warden throws a
pebble at the poster and it tears right through!!! My God!!! My mouth
was agape the whole time!!! What a fantastic ending!. The movie indeed
has the best finale in cinematic history.(The Usual Suspects comes a
close second..). Performances were superb.. (..I still think Tim
Robbins deserved a nomination more than Morgan Freeman..). The wardens
were damn good as the tormentors. But overall, I believe the story
itself deserves a special place in the annals of great cinema!!!

******
18 July 2005
10
Brilliance. Total Brilliance. From the perfectly casted roles, to the haunting music; the
all-encompassing narrative provided by Morgan Freeman, to the
magnificent storyline and plot, this movie blends all these elements of
good film-making. So much so, that even something as commonly
overlooked as having just enough comedy to provide relief from total
somberness, but not enough to distract from the misery of prison life
brought by the equally criminal actions of those in authority at the
prison; this, too, was executed with perfection. This movie is the blueprint for what I would consider to be the perfect
movie. I challenge anyone to come up with something they would "do
better" than what those who made this movie did.

******
17 July 2005
10
The Shawshank Redemption is not just a movie, it's a phenomena, it's a
one of kind and that's for sure.The man who wrote such a story is a genius, and of course the director
who used the story perfectly to make such a movie, and the actors "Tim
Robbins" and "Morgan Freeman" made such a perfect role specially "Tim
Robbins" because "Morgan Freeman" never made a bad role ever, but "Tim
Robbins" didn't make great roles in many movies so his role in this
movie is spectacular.One of the best scenes in the movie is the one when the prison manager
took his bible and was about to leave and then remembered and gave him
the bible saying "Salvation is within", not knowing that if he opened
the bible he will find the tool "Robbins" used to dig!! And in the end
"Robbins" leave the bible with a small note saying "You were right,
salvation is within"!! Amazing.

******
6 July 2005
10
Honestly, whenever you think of a good movie, what's the first thing
that comes to mind when you think about it? Is it the story? The
characters? The setting? How about the acting? The writing? Or, most
importantly in some cases, the directing? Did the movie go in the
direction that it needed to go?Some, if not all people think of at least one of these things. Some
think about it all, and judge the movie by how well it held up under
all of these matters it had to worry about.I'm one of the latter. And I think that not only is "The Shawshank
Redemption" the greatest adaptation of a story ever, it quite possibly
might be the greatest film, ever. And if it isn't, it's damn close.Seriously, seeing that "Shawshank" is at #2 on the all time 250 is, at
least to me, a testament to how under-rated and under-appreciated it
really is. Now, don't get me wrong... being the second greatest film
ever is quite an honor, and any film lucky enough to receive it must be
pretty damn good anyway. But seeing it in second place just reminds me
of the 1995 Academy awards. This movie was nominated for 7 awards, and
do you know how many it went home with? 0. In a just world, it would
have swept.But I'm being a little too bias, so let's just get on with the movie,
eh?Anyways, the movie takes place in the late 1940's and is about a man
named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins, in the absolute finest performance of
his entire career) who, in the very beginning of the film, is convicted
of murdering his wife and her lover. Of course, we know he isn't
guilty, but either way, he's sent to live out two life sentences at
Shawshank, one of the toughest prisons in the world. Meanwhile, Red
(Morgan Freeman, also in his finest performance) is denied parole
again, after serving 20 years of a life sentence.It should be known to most of you that this movie is entirely based off
of a 90 page short story by Stephen King called "Rita Hayworth and
Shawshank Redemption", which was featured in one of his collections.
The book is entirely made up of Red's passages, which means that in the
movie he's going to become the narrator. Normally, this would become
intrusive, but here, it shines. It's also important to point out that
there is an entire scene in the movie that was never in the book, where
Andy rebels and plays music over the intercom for the entire prison to
hear. This not only shows a powerful thing called "hope", it shows just
how talented Frank Darabont really is. After all, he's responsible for
another underrated gem "The Green Mile".But back to the story. Andy arrives at the prison, and after a very
crappy first night in which he didn't make a sound, he finally meets
Red, and they become very good friends while he's there for 20 years.
We see him struggle, get abused by the "sisters", build a library, do
accounting because his life on the outside was that of an accountant
and many other things. One of the most powerful scenes of the film is
when he is put in the hole for 2 months because he snooped around too
much with the warden (Bob Gunton, in his usual asshole role) about the
person who really killed his wife.Top that off with amazingly good co-star performances by William
Atherton and Clancy Brown, and it can't be beat.Anyways, yeah, I'm not saying anything else except that this is truly
deserving of the best film honors here, and I'd like to see it.An honest to god amazing film.

******
30 June 2005
10
This for me is the best movie of all time because it shows
companionship through out the movie between the two main characters
(andy and red). It's true to life with the little details of when it
was set and the story was genius, great twist at the end when he
reveals the hole in the wall, great stuff, your rooting for Andy the
whole time as we all know he is innocent. He gets his revenge in the
end by out smarting the person who over looks the prison, which for me
is the best part of the movie. The three sister also shine a light on
how desperate in mates can get, and Red shows the craft of an
experienced prisoner smuggling small goods for the rest, he takes Andy
under his wing and tells him moral after moral. Great movie, i can watch it over and over again, which, normally i cant
with most long movies, but this is one movie that is something that
little extra special. Watch it!!!!

******
16 May 2005
10
This is simply a film that you would struggle to find a flaw with. The
performances are wonderful, the story is involving and deep, the
characters are likable and understandable, and the whole climax to the
story is satisfying and rewards you for having stayed the course. It's
funny, it's moving, and it presents an incredible perception on the
ideas of hope, freedom and the vibrancy of the human spirit.If you haven't seen this film yet, then go out, rent a copy, and watch
it. If you have a friend who hasn't seen it either, then invite them
round - believe me, they'll thank you for it. This is one film that
really is a must-see.

******
16 May 2005
10
In the 11 years since the release and realization of the brilliance of
this film, I'm sure many, many legions of people have written reviews
that summarily praise (and viscously, ignorantly degrade - you know who
you are, those whose reviews appear under the "hated" tag on the
reviews pages) and criticize the movie. I can't add anything that
hasn't been said before, except just say how much this movie affected
me and how much I love it. Tim Robbins, always a great actor, and always very, very human. Morgan
Freeman, c'mon, who da man? Who da MAN?!?!? HE DA MAN!!! He DA MAN!!!
He DA smooth-walkin', smoother-talking', illest muthaf***in' epitome of
"cool". And not a bad actor, either, heh heh (yes, I know I am
drastically understating that fact). The direction - flawless. Every shot, every camera angle, every color
tone (plus the quality of the film and the cameras themselves) embody
such finesse, such power. Humanity! That's what the word I was looking
for, the word that describes what every frame overwhelmingly emanates,
even during the "brutal" scenes (I put "brutal" in quotes because I
unfortunately have seen plenty of sick s@%* in my life and am now sadly
desensitized to movie violence; violence on the news and in real life
though, DAMN I get sickened and angered at perpetrators). The very
human friendship twixt the leads are very well handled, never turning
into cutesy schmaltz or soap-y melodrama. The writing. Yes, I know. "How the hell does his cell open up into a
pipe drain? That's horrible plot!!!!!!" Ask yourselves: If his cell
wall didn't open up over the pipe, would he have escaped? Would the
story have been the same AT ALL if his cell opened up anywhere else
other than that river of s@%*? And then think about Andy. Would someone
of his intelligence would have discontinued his digging and succumbed
to madness if what he saw when he looked through the initial tiny hole
on the other side was anything other than a road to freedom? Convenient
plot twist? Sure! But not outlandish. It could happen (not like a New
York Cop winning a $4M lottery ticket and tipping a waitress half, no
matter how much he wanted to get with her). Very good storytelling and
very tight screen writing. This movie is great. Plain and simple. It did confirm one thing in
general to me, though, especially in these times of moral conflict that
is dividing the "greatest nation on the face of the earth" bitterly:
Those who thump the bible the hardest, usually cling to it the hardest
out of fear and out of guilt. Love this film.

******
16 May 2005
10
Another non-award winning movie that is consider one of the best movies
ever made I loved this movie and can watch it over all the time Should
have one best picture not just one brilliant but two brilliant
performances by both Tim and Morgan this movie is great can,t say that
enough but ill hold off if you haven't seen this movie your not a movie
lover you don't know what your missing kind of like the fugitive in a
sense but better another wrongly convicted person and treated horrible
in prison pulls off a brilliant exit and learns a few things while in
the pen underrated at the time now its rated under a movie it should be
above a must watch movie.

******
13 May 2005
10
When Portland banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is unjustly convicted
of murder and sent to prison, he quickly learns that life on the inside
is harsh and unforgiving. Thankfully, he also forges a powerful
friendship with Red (Morgan Freeman) a fellow lifer who learns to
appreciate Andy's spirit and determination. Later, when Andy set's
himself up as the resident financial adviser to the warden and guards,
he manages to earn an odd form of respect from all he comes in contact
with. Based on the Stephen King novella "Rita Hayworth and the
Shawshank Redemption", it is story about friendship, hope and the
triumph of the human spirit over incredible hardship. Hows that for a clichéd synopsis? This may summarize what the film is
about, but it does not explain why this film resonates so much with
audiences worldwide. Now, I remember the first time I read this short story by Stephen King.
I opened up "Different Seasons" because I wanted to read "The Body",
the novella which is the basis for "Stand By Me". After I had finished
that one I saw this oddly titled story at the beginning of the
anthology. I started reading it and did not stop till later that day,
when, with tears in my eyes, I put the book down. My first thought was
"that was a great story!" and I was amazed that King could write
something so inspirational. Then I thought to myself "that would make a
great picture".A year or so later - this film was released, and I went to the theater
with high hopes. The memories of this story were still cemented in my
imagination (I had actually pictured William Sadler as Red when I read
the book) and I was not disappointed by what I saw. In fact, If
anything I was even more impressed with the film because Darabont
managed to capture the nuance and feel of the original story so
perfectly. The look and feel of the prison and the characterizations of
Red and Andy where inspired. Nobody carries the regal dignity and
wisdom of Red like Morgan Freeman, and Tim Robbins was perfectly
enigmatic as Dufresne. Add to that Thomas Newmans stoic and moving
score, and what I saw was nothing short of movie magic. I walked out of
the theater, my heart soaring and knowing I had just watched a great
picture. I have only felt that way a few times before or since ("Field
of Dreams" and "Dances With Wolves" are two good examples) and I still
get that feeling when I watch it at home.This is more than a prison escape movie - it is, to me, a film about
the friendship between Red and Andy. I think so many men are fans of
this picture because Andy and Red have a connection that we would all
like to have with our friends, and that only a few of us are fortunate
enough to share or experience. I went to a marriage retreat recently,
and when the men and women were split up and asked to describe their
likes and dislikes, the question of movies came up. I think it is
interesting to note that all of us men listed this film as one of our
top ten.King has a way of writing language that is both common and lyrical at
the same time, and his characters have a wisdom and moral certainty
that connects with the reader. Kings skill as a writer is especially
evident in this picture with Freemans' narration. A lot of the lines
which he spoke are direct from the book, and this is a testament to
Darabont's respect for that written word. The screenplay he wrote was
more than just a faithful adaptation - it is an homage to the wonderful
story King wrote.I have read a lot of reviews and comments on this site that refer to
this film as "over-hyped" and "cliched", and to some extent this may be
true. This movie doesn't have a plot thats overly complicated, and the
characters (specifically the warden and prison guards) may be slightly
two-dimensional - but I think that was done on purpose. I believe
Stephen King wrote this story as an example of how a simple concept
like "hope" can pull someone through a very difficult time - and it is
this idea that appeals to so many people. This movie doesn't make any
social commentary, and it is certainly not PC - which is refreshing.
Too many films today are nothing more than political soapboxes for the
film-maker, and unfortunately the cynics and idealists prefer that sort
of commentary to simple story-telling. It has been said by fans of this movie, that "It's a Wonderful Life"
was pooh-poohed by critics when it was released as sentimental tripe -
and if the same film had been made today, it would be similarly scoffed
and mocked with abandon for it's old-fashioned sensibilities. Now,
people look at it as a classic, and rightly so, because it has a simple
message that people love to hear, over and over. That's what "The
Shawshank Redemption" is like. It's just a great story about friendship
that is told well, and most people appreciate that and that is why its
one of the top ten films on this website."Get busy living, or get busy dying."

******
11 May 2005
10
Andy is a wealth banker with a beautiful wife and big house. Everyone
would think he has everything in the world. That is till he finds out
that his wife has cheated on him. He turns to drinking and becomes
violent, but could this shy, handsome banker be capable of the
unthinkable. After the vicious murder of his wife and lover, he is
sentenced to life imprisonment at Shawshank Prison where he is bashed,
tormented and even gang raped. But nothing can dampen his spirit that
he will be free one day. A few years into the sentence, he becomes well
respected, no just among the criminals also inside, but to the prison
officers. There is a twist in the end,that will have you on the edge of
your seat. Can you pick it?

******
4 May 2005
10
Well, first I must admit i am no fan of drama movie cause they tend to
be slow and uninteresting, but the ones i do love are just great movies
that makes me either smile or break a tear. This movie is definitely
the latter.Tim Robbins and Freeman makes some powerful acting which is top notch,
but what makes this movie so special except the incredible story, is
that everyone perform at their best. Really hard to point out an actor
who only had an average performance. Not many movies that gives so many
colorful performances from all involved.The story is really a masterpiece but to put it out so well in a movie
is even harder. And the twists are surprising but makes it even better.
Shows how harsh prison life was in the 40's and 50's but even though
you are given a glimpse of the though conditions there is always that
sense of upbeat aura in the characters and u can't help but smile on a
few occasions even though there might not be much to smile about. There
is so much u can say about this movie but I just say this, this is as
good as drama gets.

******
3 May 2005
10
"Andy Dufresne - who crawled through a river of s@#t and came out clean
on the other side." Fantastic story line. Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman are mesmerizing as "Andy Dufresne" and "Red" respectively. As
are "Warden Norton" and Clancy Brown("Capt. Hadley). Excellent
characterizations throughout the film make you feel what it's like to
be wrongly imprisoned and the sense of hopelessness. The director is
deft with the story twists and turns. Original and unique camera angles
give you a real feel for "being there"...in that oppressive Maine state
prison. The cinematography and the musical score are expansive and
lush. Countless great lines. "I find I'm so excited, I can barely sit still
or hold a thought in my head. I think it the excitement only a free man
can feel, a free man at the start of a long journey whose conclusion is
uncertain. I hope I can make it across the border. I hope to see my
friend, and shake his hand. I hope the Pacific is as blue as it has
been in my dreams. I hope." - Red "Geology is the study of pressure and time. Thats all it takes
really... pressure... and time... That, and a big god@#$n poster." "Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free." - Ad Poster for
this movie.A true original. I have seen these movie many times and it never gets
old. "Get busy living or get busy dying"...

******
2 May 2005
10
Once in a while a great movie is made. In 1994, Shawshank Redemption,
went up against another giant, Forrest Gump. I personally feel if it
weren't for the fan appeal in that year; Shawshank would of taken best
picture. If it were to go up against any movie ever created then it
would easily win. Shawshank includes many twists and is depicted in a
very graphic and realistic way. Once again (like all good movies) the
ending is what makes this movie. The actors were awesome and quite
possibly could be the movie of the century. I really can't put this
movie up against any other movie and should be #1 on the top 250 list.
So please vote 10 because this movie really deserves it.

******
30 April 2005
10
After seeing The Shawshank Redemption on television, I knew I had to
see the whole film. It was incredible. After that I decided to read the
book, and this is one of the rare times that a film outdid the book it
was based off of. Even though the ending of the book was the same
(poster, escape), the film just had a certain something to it that made
it amazing. Tim Robbins ad Andy is extremely captivating and he almost
entirely becomes the roll of a nobody. Not just any actor can do that.
I can watch this movie time and time again and to me it will never get
old. The music, dialouge, acting, and plot are award-deserving parts of
a film that should go down in history as a classic.

******
30 April 2005
10
An absolutely mind-blowing film about hope being with you no matter
what the situation may be.Just because the movie is about the prison
life,you may be fooled into thinking that it is about the horrors and
the fear and the hopelessness of the life.But it is in fact exactly the
opposite of that.This is a film that tells us that no matter what the
situation may be,no matter what happens,there is always hope left with
you and it is something which no one can take from you.It is a film that defines originality and perfection at that.Even
though Andy Dufresne(Tim Robbins) was given life sentence,it was his
belief that he is innocent that kept him from breaking down.It was hope
that finally saved him."In prison,most people would do just about anything to keep themselves
busy.Some made house of cards.some collected stamps.Andy built a
library."These were the words of Red(Morgan Freeman).What he said was
true.Among all the movies I've seen,i truly believe that this is the best
one out of all of them.So if any one of you have'nt seen this film,go
watch it and be utterly amazed at it's perfection and storyline.

******
25 April 2005
10
To be fair, I also have to admit that I am a big fan of Stephen King
and the screenplay was so honest to the story so there's probably that
extra appreciation personally. I just read another review and I felt
obligated to agree! There really aren't words to describe this movie.
It gets better and better every time I see it and it doesn't matter
where I start. I have seen it at least five times every year since
2000. It has to be my all-time favorite, hands down. The movies are the
ultimate escapism for me and this movie does just that, yet it depicts
something that we know too well, being a victim of circumstance or a
witness of circumstances. Andy is the victim and Red is the witness,
connecting in a way where you had to be there to understand. Kudos too
to Stephen King for always knowing exactly how to capture our worst
fears and materializing it. Whether it's the harsh punishment for a
crime one did not commit or realizing that you've been so
"institutionalized" by the very walls you hated that you no longer know
how to live without it, this movie exudes a sense of hope much welcomed
to many.And though some of us may not absolutely believe in it, we are
nonetheless glad it's lingering just close enough for us to know it's
there. It's such a well done piece, please go see it.

******
24 April 2005
10
Starring: Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman There are some movies that when
you watch them you can't help but feel you've done more than watch a
movie. Sometimes it feels like you've been part of something bigger,
like you witnessed a masterpiece. The Shawshank Redemption is like
watching poetry. It is one of the most tragic, heartfelt, and deeply
satisfying stories to have ever been put onto the big screen. There
really is a reason that this movie is number two on the internet movie
database's top movies of all time.The premise of the movie is fairly simple. Andy Dufraine (Robbins) is
wrongfully accused with the murder of his wife and her lover, and he is
sentenced to two life sentences to be served back to back at Shawshank
prison. The plot is simple, and yet at the same time deeply complex.
This movie is a celebration of the human spirit, a celebration of hope
and of freedom.Life is difficult for Andy right from the beginning of his life
sentence. It takes him at least a month before he goes and talks to
anyone. The first person he does talk to is Red (Freeman), a man in the
prison who is able to get things. Need to get a pack of cigarettes, a
toothbrush, maybe some playing cards, then Red is your man on the
inside. Andy asks Red to pick up a rock hammer so that he can carve
stones.This movie is anything but a fairy tale. It depicts prison life as
being cruel, unfair, bitter, and downright horrible. Decent people die,
people get gang raped, the guards beat the ever-loving daylights out of
anyone who steps out of line. Shawshank prison is one hard place to
serve your time.After being in prison for a couple years, Andy gets transferred from
laundry duty to library, mainly so the warden can send his men over to
get financial advice from Andy. Andy starts doing income tax for the
guards and the warden, setting up trust funds, and various other
financial services, and after a few years, he becomes the man who
launders the warden's dirty money. Sure, he got transferred to the
library, but the only difference is he's washing money and not sheets
and clothes.Andy takes up all sorts of projects while he's in Shawshank. He makes
chess pieces for a chess board, he makes it his personal task to obtain
funds for and build a new prison library. He helps several of the
inmates get their high school equivalence. He does whatever he can to
pass the time and keep himself a little bit sane.I'd hate to spoil the ending for anybody who hasn't seen this movie, so
I will be very vague. All I will say is that it is one of the most
satisfying and beautiful endings to any movie or story that has ever
been captured. This movie is a masterpiece, and you would do yourself a
favour to make sure you watch it. And if you've already seen it, watch
it again, and introduce somebody else to the world of Shawshank prison.Bottom Line: 4 out of 4 (own this movie)

******
18 April 2005
10
Easier one of the greatest films not to win an Oscar for best film, a
truly great film. Moegan Freeman was finally awarded his long overdrew
Oscar in 2005. He was not far off receiving an Oscar for his stand out
role as the inmate who befriends Tim Robbens character. I think it was
Forrest Gump that it lost out to in 1994 when it went up for the Oscar.
And to lose out to such a film in its own right is not something to be
looked shamefully on. Had it gone up in the same catorgory since then
it would have more have likely have won. You would be hard pressed
finding a film that has been given more complements that this, but has
never received the recognition it mot truly deserves

******
16 April 2005
10
Simply put, this is more than a movie. Sit down in the dark one night
and rediscover the magic of opening up the little tin box under the old
oak tree. Listen to the sounds of the lady's from Italy as they send
you on a journey of musical bliss. Go numb once more as the arm goes
through the wall and you learn that 'ol Andy had some business on the
side that even Red wasn't aware of. And lastly, see first hand on
screen how two men can have a friendship that knows only the limits
that they have been confident enough to set-up for themselves. Yes,
this is more than a movie. No doubt about it. For what it is, it's as
perfect as a movie can be. So start livin' and smell the salt from the
warm ocean blue.

******
11 April 2005
9
Very good movie that tells a good story.Life in early 1900's prison builds some strong friendships among the
inmates. Daily prison existence takes its toll on you so you do what
you have to in order to make it through. Inmates learn how to make the
corruption work in their favor and take full advantage of it by
building on the trust the guards have in the inmates.I don't think they could have come up with a better ending to the story
than what they did. This movie is a masterpiece that you will find
yourself watching any time you are in the mood for a good movie.Highly recommended film. Watch it, you will be pleased.

******
10 April 2005
10
A true masterpiece, have seen the film many times and yet every time it
gets better for me.. thats a true sign of a great film.its not all about the prison break, so people getting this film to see
an Escape from Alcatraz movie will be disappointed.This film is about hope and so much more. Awesome acting, great
soundtrack, and even better story thats unfolded in such a great way. I
wish more movies would be like this.Get busy living or get busy dieing.this should be number #1 on IMDb, if you haven't seen it yet your
missing a true classic

******
5 April 2005
10
I won't say i am a movie geek, but this movie is really nice. I like it
by heart. A beautiful story and stunning performance by Tim Robbins.
Everybody has to watch it one time. I always like Morgen Freeman. He
performed really well in this movie. The way of presentation is really
mind boggling. I was stunned for time being after watching this movie.
It is good movie to charge you up. It will make you feel that nothing
is impossible. Dream has biggest power in world. And everybody should
follow their dreams. Keep the HOPE alive always. Only dreaming is
different thing but following that dream is really. Like i just wanted
to write few lines but now i have to write more to send this review. I
am not finding words to write. but any how i will finish this. I
started watching this movie at 11:00 PM and my one assignment is due
next morning. i was doing that assignment and my friend brought this
movie. I started watching it. I was so engrossed in this movie i could
not have track of time. I finished this movie at 2:00 AM. Now i am
writing this review and then i will start my assignment and i have a
class today 8:00 AM. So i think you can guess how good this movie is.

******
26 March 2005
10
Whis is quite simply one of the finest motion pictures ever made. The
most surprising thing is that it comes from one of the most unlikely of
sources, Stephen King. I have never been a fan of his horror work and
doubt I ever will be but his serious side has proved to be quite
excellent. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins were robbed by the Academy
when this movie came out. They both deserved to win awards for these
performances. Morgan Freeman that comes as no shock as he can elevate
most anything from trash to gold so when you give him a good role it
becomes practically transcendent.Tim Robins was more of a surprise to me. I have seen him in a few
movies but he never really left much of an impression on me. In this
film though he provided one of the 90's best performances. The rest of
the cast also filled out quite well. James Whitemore was heartbreaking
in his role as the elderly librarian. This movie deserves its spot on
at #2 on the IMDb top list and I would actually argue that it should
bump The Godfather out as I think that movie is highly over-rated but
then that's just me.If you haven't seen this movie than I suggest that you go out and rent
it now. Better yet just buy it as I doubt you will be disappointed.
Cheers!

******
26 March 2005
10
The only way to summarize The Shawhank Redemption is with one word
Incredible. This movie is beautifully told and magically shown on the
screen. It will bring a tear to your eye and fill you with hope. Andy
Dufresne is convicted murderer. He has to spend two life terms in
Shawshank state prison. There he gets brutally gang raped and meets
many friends including Red the guy who can get things. If you have
never seen this movie then you must be crazy. This may be a prison
movie but the only crime is if you don't watch it. I strongly advice
you to see this movie especially if you are having hard times this will
make you feel and think so much better. You have to see this movie!!!
Andy triumphs over adversity in this heartwarming movie of love and
friendship.

******
20 March 2005
10
(Spoilers)The Shawshank Redemption. A large Maine penitentiary where one
convicted banker/murder ends up. Andy Dufrey (Tim Robbins) has landed a
double life sentence in the penitentiary and must deal with life behind
bars. During the duration of this powerhouse of a movie we see how
inmates are truly institutionalized and their lives are virtually
destroyed by their time spent in jail.After the suicide of Brooks, the movie takes a new turn and Andy's
character begins to develop. He remodels the jail library, helps guards
with their taxes and even finds the time to educate inmates. But during
these times the Warden begins to bet Andy involved with illegal
activity. Not to ruin it I'll leave it at that. The Shawshank Redemption is the definition of an amazing movie. While
being entertaining and emotional the movie shows us the atrocities of
jail life that only Stephen King could bring and how even in the
darkest of times hope can survive. Robbins as Dufrey and Freeman as his
buddy Red both do amazing jobs with their characters and deserved more
than it was awarded by the Academy and Golden Globes. The Shawshank Redemption. 5 out of 5 Stars.

******
19 March 2005
10
Absolute travesty that it lost the Oscar to feel-good trash like
Forrest Gump.I like the fact that the Shawshank Redemption didn't bother tying up
the loose end of the 'real' murderer remaining free. It was sufficient
for Andy that he knew he did not commit the murders. He lived his life
for the future, not for the past.There is something very touching about the scene where Andy does some
financial work for one of the warders, and all the prisoners get beer
as a result. He just sits back and smiles - and his unselfish act has
such excellent consequences for him, both with his relations with the
other prisoners, the 'sisters' and the guards.

******
19 March 2005
10
Shawshank Redemption.. Where do I start..?By far, the greatest film ever made. My eyes were glued to it the whole
way through. Amazing. It was so great to watch.. I loved it. The idea
and storyline of the film is just such a good idea. Finally I've seen a
decent prison-life film. If you have this stacked away in your cupboard
and haven't watched it, make sure you do! It's a fabulous film and I
recommend it to anyone who likes watching a mystery, drama or even
people who enjoy a cry.Chris Harris Number 1 Shawshank Redemption Fan

******
4 March 2005
10
I'll go out on a limb and say this is the greatest movie ever made. The
first time you see this movie and are not aware of its "secret" it
seems like an average movie, with a good plot and great acting. This is
the rare movie that actually gets better the more times you watch it.
I've seen it more than 30 times and I just never get tired of it. If
you like movies about perservering in the face of adversity and never
giving up, then this movie will definitely appeal to you. Be sure and
buy the DVD so you can see the extras about the location and all the
backstories related to the movie. It's well worth the price. The
cinematography, the writing, the acting, the direction -- everything is
brilliant. This is one case where the movie is actually far better than
the book or short story.

******
3 March 2005
10
Let me try. As a former Cop injured on the job in 1998 it's sometimes
easy to despair. For many of us It's almost as if, we cannot see the
blessings in our life unless they are taken from us or we lose them.
This movie is about Hope. That's what makes this movie so special.
there is a deep lesson in this film and like a work of abstract art,
it's what you chose to take from it that makes it whatever it is. For
me it's the message that no matter what, it isn't over till it's over.
And to quote the film. Get busy living or get busy dying. That's a
message. I'm going to try to live it out. Also the entire cast are
incredible in their roles.

******
1 March 2005
10
I was compelled to read the Forrest Gump thread entitled "worst movie
ever to win the best picture", it broke my heart with the same impact
that the year 1994 did when it released Shawshank and Forrest in the
same year. I went to the movies 3 times to see Forrest Gump during the
summer after I graduated High School. I couldn't have identified with a
movie any more during this phase of limbo and floating through life
both laughing and crying. Unfortunately, I was so enraptured with this
film and my innocence of being 18 that I did not see Shawshank until it
was released on video and I viewed this movie 3 times with 3 different
groups of people in 24 hours, running around my South Jersey area
looking for worthy disciples that had also missed out on one of the
best movies I had ever seen as well. Shawshank was a victim of
circumstance not only in my little world but in the real world as well.
I wish it could have somehow won a co-Acadamy Award, like a rare-MVP
award in sports, but it would take away from its infamous underdog/goat
status like the Boston Red Sox. (who knows maybe they will wait 86
years and finally give it the praise it is due?)

******
28 February 2005
10
This is simply the greatest film ever made. when you see this movie it
will take to a place of where it is not just a movie but the greatest
story ever told and some amazing directing by Frank Darabont, the
acting is also great and it stays strong for the whole movie. This
movie deals with personal encounters and problems the characters will
face, on top of that it contains unforgettable dialog and some moments
you will never forget, you will be truly moved by this movie and will
wish it will never end. because this is my favorite movie of all time
it was not hard to get in that place because of how great it was, i
thought it was even better than the classic "The Godfather". this is a
movie i will recommend to everyone who like movies movies because trust
me you will love this.Morgan Freeman in my opinion is one of the greatest actors and has only
won an Oscar for his work in Clint Eastwoods "Million Dollar Baby". I
thought he should have won and ward here and for "Driving Miss Daisy".
He has just recently been in the thrilling "Batman Begins" which the
best out of the "Batman" franchise. Tim Robbins is a varied actor, I'm
not saying his movies are either good or bad, what I'm saying is he can
play any role like in "Bull Durham" he plays a cocky baseball player
and in "Mystic River" he plays a disturbed family man. But when you see
Freeman and Robbins together on screen it is something very special and
in this situation it creates the greatest film of all time.Frank Darbont, the man behind "The Green Mile" and "The Majestic" wrote
and directed this wonderful film adapted from the Stephen King Novela
"Rita Hayorth and the Shawsank Redemtion". This is the best adapted
King book, only a few others are that good, Stanley Kubricks thrilling
adaptation of "The Shinig" and Darbonts "The Green Mile". frank
Darabont does not drag on anything in this movie because not once did I
get bored, you may think that there is not much that goes on in this
movie but there is always something that is happening. At the beginning you think that Andy(Robbins) will not be able to last
the first night, and you see Red(Freeman) and his friends making bets
on who will freak out, to their surprise it is the fatty who freaks and
Hadley beats him over the head which ends up killing him. After this
Andy knows he is going to have to stand up for himself, he quickly
becomes friends with Red but enemies with Heywood. Heywood and his
friends would beat on Andy because he is the new guy. I wont say
anything else about the movie because I don't want to give any
spoilers. 10/10

******
18 February 2005
10
When I first came across the title "Shawshank Redemption" I didn't have
a clue as to what it was about, since I didn't know the plot. But it
had Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman as it's stars, so I figured that it
was worth a peek. What a peek!! This movie is awesome!! Not the classic
tale of a innocent man being sent to jail for a crime that he didn't
commit, this movie was much more detailed. It shows you how cruel
prison life can be. (Although, if you want a better picture of prison
life today, I suggest watching "American Me") You have everything in
this picture, Corrupt Prison Warden, Sadistic Guards, and a innocent
man caught in the middle. You can not help but admire Tim Robbins
character "Andy Dufresne" as he waits patiently for almost 20 years
before he is able to rectify his situation. Talk about patience and
perseverance! This is one movie that will tug at your heart. Excellent
movie.

******
21 January 2005
10
This is simply one of the greatest if not "the greatest" movie ever
made. It's a beautiful story, presented excellently by Frank Darabont,
and brilliant writing in the part of Stephen King.Even though this is a fictional story, it's so well presented, that you
feel like you're a silent character in the film. You are made to feel
like your're in the cast. You almost expect your name to appear in the
credits. The character development was excellent, from the main
characters played by Morgan Freeman, and Tim Robbins, all the way to
"the sisters", Although we may not have liked them, we feel that we
somehow know them and can relate to their specific plights. However it
was done very well, because none of them overshadow the main
characters, and the main plot of the film. Undoubtedly a Classic.
Should be studied as long as film exists.

******
19 January 2005
10
Shawshank Redemption was a brilliant film that was original and
believable. It was a story that truly touched my heart, about
friendship, survival, Hope and trust. The twists in the film were so
unexpected, Andy was an Exceptional character that grew on me as the
film progressed, the character Red helped to contribute to the
originality and clever thought that formed this film. I thought using
Morgan Freeman (Red) as a narrator was really a different idea. The
director not only thought about the scenery but also used colours and
lighting in the film very cleverly The director of this film definitely
deserves a pat on the Back!!! All together we give this film 10/10 I
definitely recommend It!!! Sedge n Melissa.

******
15 January 2005
10
I have to give this Film Credit, Defiently when credit is due. This Was
an outstanding film. The history of this film was that it actually was
taken off of short story from Steven king. and as I'm not a great fan
of Steven King. I would say this movie is like a Flower that grown out
of dirt. The Story is about a man. and the power that hope can achieve.
In jail he accomplished things and hardships no man should suffer. he
triumph in goals and achieves without deferring. and he never gave up
hope. It took us on a roller-coaster and in the end it showed us that
miracles can blossom where you would never expect it. It was a
beautiful and it deserved a lot more then it ever got.

******
14 January 2005
8
The Shawshank Redemption is considered by many to be one of the
greatest films of all time. Yet as with any classic, we must not be
blinded by its popularity, lest we overlook its flaws. And The
Shawshank Redemption is not without its difficulties, but beyond those
difficulties lies a heartfelt film, a film resilient in its
hopefulness.The Shawshank Redemption, for the most part, is seen through the eyes
of Red, a prisoner in a high-security Maine prison who has been
convicted on a charge of murder. Yet Red is not the true focus of the
film, as Andy Dufresne steps onto the scene, convicted of murdering his
wife and her lover. Red soon develops a friendship with Dufresne, and
Red observes Dufresne like a curious onlooker, awed by his courage and
knowledge.These characters, the compelling story, and the direction are the three
strongest points of the film. Each character is filled with life and
plays an important role in both the film as a whole and in Dufresne's
life. Never for a moment does the viewer question the plausibility of
the characters and the circumstances in which they find themselves.
This is where the story comes in, as the film contrasts dark reality
with brilliance of hope. The story sucks the viewer into the film from
the beginning, until it is so captivating, that the viewer could not
escape if he tried. Furthermore, I was pleasantly amazed by Durabont's
direction, as he creatively used the camera to capture even more
wonderfully the hopefulness of the film.However, Durabont has other difficulties, amongst which is the
screenplay that he himself authored. Yes, there are times when the
screenplay is emotional and heart-breaking, but there are also some
foolish, implausible lines that detract from the movie's effect. Words
were sometimes spoken when there should have been silence, leaving less
interpretation up to the viewer while spitting clichés out from the
characters' mouth. I felt that the acting was lacking a bit as well,
even though as the viewer gets more used to the characters, their
acting seems to fit, albeit imperfectly.In conclusion, the high points of this film are higher than the low
points are low. People generally like this film, and it's easy to see
why, as it examines human existence in its own distinctive way. This
examination has led it be considered one of the best films of the
1990s.Final Grade: A-.

******
10 January 2005
10
The Shawshank Redemption is my favourite movie of all time. Why? Well
as you can see it is third now in the list of IMDb.com top movies ever
and is praised by actually everyone i've talked about it and every
critic. But that's not me. Everyone can have their say and mine is that
big part of this movies high quality comes from the everlasting theme
of hope and of the fact that the filmmakers can make you like and even
love the characters, though they are murderers, thieves and so on. That
is hard to achieve and it is a remarkable mistake not to have honored
the best adapted screenplay Oscar to this movie. Best picture also
would have been the right choice(though it would have been fun to see
Pulp Fiction win). And of course not only the movie's acting is perfect
everything else is in it's superb place too. The music, the
cinematography etc.What happens is that, to ME, this movie is perfect. It's got everything
a movie need and then some(and more). Maybe you can say it's caused bit
of the hype of everyone saying it is such great movie, but I can't deny
it's place on example in this list, and nor can I say that it is
overrated. So if you haven't seen it(and you propably have) the watch
it as soon as you can! You just must...

******
7 January 2005
10
I didn't see this movie in the theaters when it came out. I had never
been a big Steven King fan, and it just didn't catch my imagination. A
friend brought the video over one night for us to watch it, and MAN! I
was blown away. The theme of the movie is hope, and what hope, and the
lack thereof, does to people. This is truly one of the most uplifting
films which I think was ever made.I thought that everything in the film clicked. The acting, the
direction, the cinematography, the music, all were perfect. I have read
some posts where people don't like the ending, but I think the
regressing shot of the two friends is right on; you see the culmination
of the struggle to be free for both men, yet it's not in your face
sappy.As far as the best scene, I would have to say it's a three way toss-up:1: The aria scene 2: Brook's suicide 3: Red in the wheat fieldI probably pull the DVD out once a month or so to watch this gem. JRW

******
5 January 2005
10
The Shawshank Redemption is about Andy Dufresne who was sent to
Shawshank Prison for the double homicide of his cheating wife and her
secret lover. But instead of feeling sorry for himself he lived the
best he could and bettered the lives of fellow inmates through shear
determination. In the process, he made many friends (Ellis 'Red'
Redding being most notable of all) and even gained the respect of
prison guards. Despite of serving back to back life sentences, Andy
never gave up his ultimate dream of one day living by the ocean. That
dream was further jeopardized because of what he knew, and there was
someone who will go to great lengths to keep him locked up forever.
Will Andy finally crack and lose hope, or will his perseverance
prevail?The Shawshank Redemption is the best movie that I've ever seen. I even
like it better than any of the Godfather movies (which have a
completely different theme up to the last episode). Perhaps I like this
movie so much because it suits my taste. But I think most viewers of
all kinds will appreciate Shawshank for the superb acting of the main
characters, the insightful dialogs throughout, the powerful message it
conveys, and the realness of the lives of convicts both inside the
prison and outside once they're paroled.It's a shame that Shawshank didn't win many awards since '94 was a
tremendous year with the release of other great films like Pulp Fiction
and Forrest Gump. But the acting and directing of this film was still
outstanding. I can't ever imagine serving a life sentence, and prison
life was much different in the mid 1900's from today. Still I was able
to relate to what the main characters were feeling, and I was moved by
their words and actions numerous times (especially those of Brooks).The underlying theme of Shawshank was simple; it celebrated hope and
perseverance just like Lord of the Rings. Hope and perseverance are
indeed powerful elements in arts, and both films have done a marvelous
job portraying these two aspects. However, Shawshank seemed more real
because frankly it was set in our world and not a fantasy one. This is
no knock against LOTR, but I find myself more involved in this film
because I could relate to it more and it made a deeper impact on me.******POSSIBLE SPOILERS BELOW******Of course no film is perfect. There are minor details here and there
than didn't make sense to me. For example, how could the wall fall
apart so easily? How could Andy cut/break such a big hole through that
steel pipe with a rock? How can Shawshank Prison ignore the smuggling
of things (they definitely knew since there were posters on the prison
walls and men were smoking smuggled cigarettes)? But these are minor
things, and don't jeopardize the integrity of Shawshank.I don't want to over-analyze Shawshank and give it away, but I would
highly recommend it to anyone who's in the mood for a serious film. My
final rating: 10/10.

******
4 January 2005
10
This movie is simply outstanding and is one of the best if not the best
I've ever seen. Its my joint 3rd favourite with Darabont's other great
king adaptation The Green Mile and Seven. This movie is flawless on
every level. The key to it though is possibly the greatest ever script
ever written by Darabont, and truly outstanding acting from Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins. No need to go into the plot. This movie is all
about hope and will inspire you to do anything. The brilliant ending is
definitely the best i've ever seen and brought a tear to my eye. Watch
this movie whenever your happy or sad. It doesn't matter. The film will
give you so much hope and happiness. It really is that brilliant. In
fact i'm watching it now.WATCH IT NOW 10/10- Probably the greatest movie ever made

******
30 December 2004
10
This is by far my favorite movie of all time.How do I know this is it with so many other good movies out there? I
thought along before I came to the conclusion. My basis..every time,
yes, every time the movie is on T.V. I stop and watch it and love every
minute of it over and over.I still get tears in my eyes when the movie ends. Morgan Freeman and
Tim Robbins are wonderful in the movie.I think everyone knows but this is one of those rare movies that was
really good that is based on a Stephen King book.This is a must see feel good movie!

******
29 December 2004
10
Lord of the Rings:ROTK and Godfather are amazing films but the fact
that Shawshank Redemption wasn't noticed as well as them is the reason
i think this film is third and not first in the ranking.shawshank Redemption is a film that never won an award yet remains one
of the best film ever. It is the most rented video and most sold video
to this day and so it should be.To sum up this film its a prison drama with twists and turns and very
strong relationships, its got everything you ever want in a film and
then some, I urge people to watch this film if they haven't already.10/10

******
28 December 2004
10
I loved this movie and have watched it over 50 times in a 2 year
period; I believe it should have won an academy award, but its my guess
that the "bull queer" scenes removed any chance of that. The dialog
between Andy and Red was spellbinding at times and the interplay
between them and the other guys in their clique made it seem like being
in prison could be enjoyable. My wife hated the movie because of the
scenes containing violence and I have to admit that some of them could
have been left out, the movie really didn't need them to be successful
or appear real. I originally thought I would hate this movie and didn't
see it till it was on HBO TV. The other movies that come close to being
most watched are Titanic and a comedy called Midnight run.

******
7 December 2004
10
When i first heard about the Shawshank redemption i was dubious because
i have not really been interested in prison films. Once i had watched
it i immediately went and bought the DVD. I must have watched this film
dozens of times (which is very unusual for me). The acting, story-line,
scenery where all amazing and when the subject of favourite films is
discussed my friends and family most people have the Shawshank
Redemption as there favourite or at least in their top 3. Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robins are perfect as the lead characters and you
become so absorbed in there characters. Thoroughly recommended as this
is a classic.

******
7 December 2004
10
I have seen this movie over and over, and I have never been able to
find any movie better then this one. Every time I watch this movie I
see something new. I would call this perfect. And then 7 Oscar
Nominations and the place here at IMDb top 250 speaks for it self I
think.I am gonna give my comment on it anyways.First of all the movie is based on a novel by Stephen King, one of my
favorite writers. Some of his books have become terrible movies, while
some of them are classics. Movies like The Green Mile, Stand By Me, The
Shining etc, they are all classics, and this one just stand out to be
the best of them all.Secondly the actors. Morgan Freeman who never does a bad job in a
movie, and if it wasn't for Forest Gump that came out the same year, I
am sure he would have been winning best Actor that year at the Oscars.
Same goes for Tim Robbins, another class actor, and here he really is
at his best. Actually, I cant find any actor making a bad job in this
movie, not even small roles from supporting characters.The sound track might not be the most exciting, but it for sure really
suits the movie, and does not spoil any of the dialogs. The cutting,
and the way the movie is filmed is also one of the best I ever seen.In the beginning there is a court where Andy Duofrense played by Tim
Robbins try to claim his innocence after his wife have been murdered.
Even if he is innocence all proves against him and he get judged to
prison. It all start out with the new prisoners arriving. Andy
Duofrense is one of those, and he seem to be one who does not seem to
be bothered about being in a prison, cause he walk around like he was a
free bird who could leave his cage whenever he wants.Eventually Andy and Red(Morgan Freeman) becomes friends, and Red is the
guy in the prison who can fix everything. So Andy asks Red to fix a
poster and a small hammer for him. That is eventually the key to
freedom..There is a lot of lovely scenes in this movie. Like when Andy managed
to get his prisoner m8's beer while they are fixing the roof.I ain't gonna say more about this movie, cause it really is one long
lovely story, and you have to see it.I rate this 10/10, and it is the perfect movie, and the only movie I
rated 10!

******
6 December 2004
10
Perhaps the best movie ever shot, as evidenced by its rating of #3 on
IMDb's top 250 list. This movie is so good, my words will do it little
justice, but alas, I will try. The music: perfect. The actors: Morgan
Freeman in his best role, in a word perfect. The pacing: its long, but
this accurately portrays the idea of time in prison. The theme:
wonderful, and inspiring at every viewing. If you have not seen this
movie, you must. You will not regret it. The "Shawshank Redemption" is
the most overlooked movie in history... this movie should have won a
number of Oscars, among other awards. It is just that good. Go rent it,
buy it, borrow it, whatever, just see it!

******
5 December 2004
10
Frank Darabont's "The Shawshank Redemption", starring Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman, is the greatest film ever made in Hollywood. Plain and
simple. The film tells the involving story of two prisoners at
Shawshank Prison, and their decades together under the thumb of a cruel
warden and his henchman. Andy (Tim Robbins, never better) is an
innocent man, who uses his accounting skills to make himself useful to
the warden, and struggles to keep up hope, against the counsel of his
fellow inmates. Red (Morgan Freeman, astonishing) thinks hope is a
dangerous thing, and is an institutionalized man, who can't imagine
life outside of the prison walls. The film also stars Bob Gunton,
Clancy Brown, William Sadler, and, in a powerful performance, James
Whitmore. I'll say no more, because this film must be seen to be
understood.

******
26 November 2004
10
It's the most impressing movie I've ever seen.I saw it coincidentally
but was shocked very much by Tim and Morgan's acts.Especially at the
end of the movie,I am aware of what is hope and how one can keep his
mind alive.Is there anything more difficult for a single person to dig
a hole through a wall in a jail within 19 years?We always consider it
as one out of ten films that men have to see in his life(certainly it's
on top).It's very pity that the Academy Reward neglected it,Tim should
win all awards in 1994.Although few people have heard it before but if
one is asked to see it ,he is surely very fond of it and thinks it is
the best .I believe that Redemption will stay as long as I live on my
mind.

******
23 October 2004
10
One of those very rare movies, that even though you may have it on DVD
or tape, you'll still stop and watch the WHOLE movie to the very end if
you find it playing while 'channel surfing'. I, like everyone else I
know, found out about this movie from someone else; I did not see this
at the movies. So, I rented it and was (like everyone else apparently)
blown away by this true cinematic masterpiece. Over the past ten years
my wife and I have probably seen the movie a couple of dozen times
each. If someone out there needs a 'pick-me-up' movie' (we ALL do
sometimes!), then this is YOUR movie. It's always guaranteed to always
remind one that "Hope is a Good Thing...."

******
21 October 2004
10
where do i start i saw this film a couple of years ago and have since
recommended it to a lot of people.tim robbins and morgan freeman are
magic and are convincing throughout and there friendship is very
believable the tale of the hellish prison and sadistic guards are
harrowing and seem sometimes hopeless for the helpless inmates but hope
is the the moral here if u have hope u can overcome anything......and
its true i guess we need movies like this to remind us there is hope no
matter wot our situation...at the end of this movie i was in tears the
twist and end scenes are like i have never seen before as for tim
robbins i never saw him act so well since which leads me to believe he
may choose poor scripts....although morgan freeman is always a powerful
actor his on screen presence is overwhelming and id say probably in my
top five actors along with ,denzel washington and al pacino .....i read
a comment by a guy stating this movie should be voted down the list why
if u read everyone everyones comments this movie means so much to so
many people I'm sure anyone will agree with me and deserve its place
and the more people who see it the higher it will go although its not
as well know as godfather all the best movie fans and thank you IMDb
for such an unrivaled movie site .

******
19 October 2004
10
This is by far one of the best movies made. It talks of hope, patience,
the will to prove the truth and above all, friendship. Andy's fight
with hopelessness and the tragedy that he is forced to face is truly
inspiring. Not once do we see him beaten down by the situation. He not
only saves himself but also puts back new life into the likes of Red
and Tommy. A few scenes like the time when Andy plays the music over
the loudspeaker, "Brooks was here, So was Red", the climax are all
unforgettable. The dialogues and the performances are flawless. Andy is wrongly accused of killing his wife and her lover. He ends up
in Shawshank, a place where a normal being would succumb to the
helplessness. But Andy fights it out. The "change" Andy brings about in
the situation in Shawshank is probably impossible. The story is
narrated by Red, Andy's best friend inside and later. Truly, an amazing
movie!

******
18 October 2004
9
Hope. It is the single most powerful human emotion. It can keep you
alive, and it can destroy your life. Hope can be the one thing left in
a world where everything else is taken from you- and The Shawshank
Redemption is the perfect artistic visualization of the tremendous
power that hope can have over someone who has lost everything else. The opening scene introduces us to a young and successful banker named
Andy Dufresne, and the things that have transpired to destroy his life.
We can't help but feel sympathy toward a man who finds out that his
wife is having an affair, and then gets convicted for the double
homicide of his wife and her lover- when he is innocent of the crime.
Taken to Shawshank prison for two life sentences, Andy has had his
entire life taken from him in a spiral of terrible events. It only gets
worse at the prison, as the brutality of the prison guards is
unbridled, and a few inmates make his life hell. However, Andy
continually surprises the audience with his resilience and his
character finds ways to amaze the inmates, the guards, the warden, and
the audience. The story itself is not wholly original or
groundbreaking, and there is no 'surprise-ending' or major twists that
come out of nowhere to shock the audience. However, it is in the
delivery of the story that this film excels beyond all others. Every aspect of this movie compliments the incredible script written by
Frank Darabont that was based on Stephen King's novella. The music is a
composition of slow-moving and peaceful ballads that bring out just how
long-winded a life sentence in prison can be, and how undaunted Andy is
by the terrible environment he is in. The cameras move slowly and
steadily, repeatedly scanning the prison and also emphasizing the
endless span that life in prison truly is. On the artistic side, the
movie is something to behold. But ultimately, what brings the entire
movie together is the beautifully written and exceptionally delivered
narration of Morgan Freeman, playing a fellow inmate named Ellis 'Red'
Redding. Not only are we given a view into Andy's character through
this man's observations, but we also see how Red himself changes his
life as a result of Andy Dufresne.The amazing thing about this film is how every detail in the entire
movie somehow contributes to the story on the whole. It takes a few
times of viewing before you can really appreciate just how intricate
the plot is- how every single moment helps increase the power of the
incredible ending sequence. It is not too complex, with many tangents
that end up confusing the viewer. Instead, it runs with a simple theme
and adds to it with everything that is depicted. The only negative
thing I have to say about this movie is that the ending seems a bit
drawn out, but by this time you are so enthralled and satisfied as a
viewer that it should not pose a problem. A great story, told flawlessly, with a powerful message. There is not a
lot more that you could ask for in a movie. Entertaining and inspiring.
Deep, yet not complicated. A message delivered with undeniable power,
and an excellent movie experience overall. If you have ever felt like
everything has been taken from you, then learn from Andy Dufresne.
'There's something inside that they can't get to, that they can't
touch. It's yours.' Hope. It can set you free.

******
17 October 2004
10
I am a movie buff, seen just about all the classics, new and old, but
Shawshank is number 1. I think LOR attempts, in a much more complicated
manner, to deliver a similar theme - hope even in the most bleak of
times. Shawshank delivers this message even more effectively than LOR,
and crystalizes the message of hope as the single most important thing
in our lives, even more than love. Many of us do not have love in our
lives - but hope makes us continue, search for a better life, a better
day. I like to put it this way, nothing ever good in this world ever
came from quitting, giving up. All that is good in this world, came
through persistance, hard work, determination.....hope. No other piece
of movie making has ever reflected this message better than The
Shawshank Redemption.

******
14 October 2004
10
I picked this up on video seven years ago. The movie bombed in the UK.
The story inspires hope, whether your male or female. The rich
characterization is skillfully handled by Robbins and Freeman.
Darabont's script sets up quite a gripping visual antagonism that
wholly rewards the audience with a feel-good ending. It made me weep,
time and again. And when you lose hope the film's portrayal of
redemption over adversity can lead to your own redemption. The power of
the visual and the word of hope make this a great film. It has already
spurned the box office in favour of the people. It is more than just a
commercial venture it is a damn good yarn that provides inspiration to
those who need it. It is the William Blake of scripture, dividing
heaven and hell, and the corruption of good. My video copy wore out
earlier this year so I'm happily in possession of the 10th anniversary
DVD. Best movie in 75 years. Buy two copies your sure to get one
stolen.

******
14 October 2004
10
I honestly don't know what it is about this movie. I've seen it
somewhere around 40 times and I never tire of it. If I'm in the middle
of watching something else and I happen to see that Shawshank is on
again, I'll completely forget about whatever else was on and stay glued
to this one.It was the first DVD I ever purchased and I picked up the anniversary
the moment it was released. It's always good to have a backup copy in
case I wear out one of them.The actors did an absolutely splendid job in this one. Tim Robbins was
absolutely brilliant. Morgan Freeman played the best Irishman I've ever
seen on the screen. All of the smaller player were just excellent. And
all of this from a 'prison' movie.Hope, friendship, life ... what a story.

******
10 October 2004
10

don't get me wrong. i am 100 percent GUY. just as this is my first topic
and comment in this forum. i just wanna devote my FIRST time to my
favourite film. fancy seeing everyone here, and happy to be your
FRIEND( have you ever seen "FRIENDS?). i don't want to talk something about this movie. you see, i am just a
newbie here, i don't want to be snob in your eyes. all i have known
about film is only it is good or not. i cant say much about it. anyway
, give me a hello if you like. oh, it looks i could stop here. morethan 10 lines....OK, over. by the way, how will Andy go out if his cell isnot at one
side?


******
6 October 2004
10

The Shawshank Redemption is easily the greatest movie ever. It is such
an amazing journey of two people throughout approximately twenty years
of a prison sentence. The evolution of their friendship (Andy played by
Tim Robbins and Red played by Morgan Freeman) over that period is just
amazing how they go from not knowing each other to very close best
friends. I love to see how Andy, through his financial prowess, is able
to accomplish so much for him, his friends, and fellow prisoners. Bob
Gunton as the warden and Clancy Brown as the head prison guard were
also amazing in there roles. Brown was very authoritative and violent
in his control of the prison. Gunton was impressive as the corrupt
warden who did not like to be reminded of his misdeeds. I love when he
goes nuts when Andy asks how he can be so obtuse. I think that is
hilarious how somebody would take as much offense to the word obtuse.
The way that the movie ends is what made this my favorite movie of all
time. I did not see that ending coming at all and I will not spoil it.
To explain how great this movie is I would say this: If you have seen
the movie Gymkata and know how extremely bad that movie (except that
its badness makes it hilarious), The Shawshank Redemption is as great
as Gymkata is bad. This has been my review of the greatest movie ever
and everybody should see this movie at least once.


******
30 September 2004
8

I would by lying if I had to rate this film less than 8/10 but then if
I was asked "what's so great about it?" I would have to reply "well,
nothing really - it's just a good film".I very much doubt that anyone who looks critically at movies can really
see this as anything more than a really good made-for-TV movie. It's
like the Bjorn Borg of movies: you can't fault it but what else is
there to it?We need more "McEnroes" and "Agassis" with flair and style which go
beyond what we expect from movies that are simply good.Mungflesh Factor 8/10


******
28 September 2004
8

The criteria for a classic film to become timeless is very simple. It
must speak to every generation that comes in contact with it. Films
like the The Wizard of Oz and Gone With the Wind, both which were
released in 1939, have obviously aged well. The Wizard of Oz, like The
Shawshank Redemption, was not an immediate success and yet it grew an
audience. The Shawshank Redemption is a well told story that seems to
connect with people on a basic level. It has also subsequently grown in
viewership in its first decade. It will be very interesting to see how
it fares 50 years from now. Will this film stand the test of time? Will
this film always remain a favorite among audiences?


******
24 September 2004
8

Its interesting to read the comments on this movie. I don't think any
film has polarized users as much as this one has. Almost 53% gave it a
10! 10 is perfection in cinematography, acting, screenplay etc. This
movie is not perfect. Granted it tells a heartwarming story and is
entertaining enough, so I charitably gave it an 8 and I think that's
fair. Is this movie the second best of all time? NOT! I think 53% of
the voters have been blinded by the redemption scene and the twist at
the end, sure it was neat but check your warm n' fuzzies folks. Other
movies that are overrated at IMDb because of a neat twist at the end are
The Usual Suspects and The Sixth Sense. A twist does not make it
Perfect.


******
16 September 2004
10

This movie has always fascinated me and I have always counted it as one
of my favorite movies if not the favorite. I was pleased therefore to
find it #2 at IMDb top rated movies of all time. No matter how hard I
think I can't really find much fault with it at all. Characters, main
and secondary, are all fantastically well played, the plot unfolds at
just the right tempo, the surroundings are as realistic as it gets etc
etc. The whole movie, though set i a prison with all the violence and
dreary atmosphere it brings, still left me with a positive feeling
afterward. It's the kind of movie that doesn't leave you, you remember
it over and over again with a smile on your lips. 10/10Cyberik


******
12 September 2004
10

To be honest, this is ABSOLUTELY my favorite film!! Frank Darabont
(director) did really great work. The film has absolutely NO violence,
but it isn't boring at all!!! The dialogs are perfect and the music is
wonderful!!!So, a big compliment to Frank Darabont, who is also the director of
Misery, which is also written by Stephen King.And then, last but NOT least, there are the actors Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman. They're acting so convincingly, you'll never forget
them. So, if you would ask me, I give 10 stars of 10!P.S : I'm sorry if you find some mistakes in my English grammar, but
i'm a beginner ;-).


******
9 September 2004
10

The Shawshank Redemption fills me with joy and hope every time I watch
it, which must be well over a few dozen times now. Tim Robbins' acting
is excellent as the emotionally repressed banker in jail but Morgan
Freeman, who is consistently superb in all his roles, carries the
weight of this movie's intelligently uplifting spirit, its pathos,
warmth and humanity. Freeman narrates the story and it's his rich voice
that details the life in jail and with his majestic, patient compassion
adds color to what otherwise might have felt abjectly bleak. Whenever I
feel down I watch this movie for inspiration. This is the sort of movie
I think people of all ages can enjoy, many times over, seeing it with
new eyes at different times in their lives.


******
8 September 2004
10

"The Shawshank Redemption" is a film practically void of flaw: a
monumental, impeccable gem, succeeding marvelously as a heartfelt tale
of hardship, friendship, and above all, redemption. Practically every
element in this film is either extremely satisfying or undeniably
excellent, as everything one might desire in a dramatic experience, and
even a film experience, is executed with perfect conviction, from the
brilliant, compelling performance of Morgan Freeman, to the passionate,
relentless direction, to the enchanting, whimsical screenplay, to the
powerful, befitting score; this film succeeds on nearly every level. It
is entertainment at its best, featuring an amusing, rousing story of
survival and redemption, while attaining those sincere, practical, and
original qualities a "film purist" will heartily enjoy. You follow
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins through their every experience, as their
trials, tribulations, and redemption are the central themes of the
story. You develop an intense bond with their struggles, and how they
manage to overcome so many hardships and injustices, while still
retaining confidence and hope. The resounding message here is "Fear can
hold you prisoner, Hope can set you free", and oh, what a powerful,
important message for all of us to consider. It is an absolute travesty
that this brilliant, enchanting, and impeccable film was rejected for
even a single Oscar. Any other year than Forrest Gump and this would
have won gold; such a shame. I loved practically everything about this
film, as an entertainment, as an artistic achievement, and as a lesson
of life: "Get busy living, or get busy dying." What a wonderful film
"Shawshank" is. **** out of ****


******
7 September 2004
10

This is one of my all time favorites! With Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman, you cannot go wrong! It's like everything is just perfect.I really appreciated every moment of this piece of art! If you're into
prison movies, well this is for sure the best around!Every fan of Morgan Freeman should get this one, it's probably his best
movie as of now along with Sev7n.The kinda movie you would watch over and over and never get bored of
it.Buy this one, it's really worth the money!This one gets,an easy 10!


******
3 September 2004
10

Currently, on the IMDb top 250 Movies of All Time list, the top two
movies both hold ratings of 9.0. Of these two, "The Shawshank
Redemption" has roughly twenty thousand more votes in its favor. Ergo,
I do believe that "The Shawshank Redemption" should finally ascend to
its rightful place on this web-page, and hopefully cinema history, as
the Greatest Film of All Time. That having been said, I wish now to give my own thoughts on this film,
thoughts which will be hitherto corrupted by myriad spoilers.The acting is astounding. Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne delivers the
perfect combination of hope and despair, so that you can love his
character without ever truly knowing what he shall do next. Morgan
Freeman brings subtlety and depth to a character who would perhaps
otherwise be much simpler. Bob Gunton allows you to genuinely fear
Warden Norton, and if James Whitmore's performance does not make you
lachrymose, nothing can.The plot is beautiful, describing the redemption of many an inmate.
Red, though he does not escape institutionalization, becomes a good
man. Tommy Williams does the same. The best of all endings however, is
Andy's, as he goes through so much to come out clean in the end,
something expressed both allegorically throughout the story and
literally at the end.The greatest film I have ever seen.


******
28 August 2004
9

'I wish that I could tell you that Andy fought the good fightand the
Sisters let him be. I wish I could tell you thatbut prison is no
fairy-tale world.' This quote nicely sums up The Shawshank Redemption,
a film that earnestly shows the violent life in prison, but chooses not
to focus on the violence, rather using it to portray emotion.Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), a successful banker, is convicted for the
murder of his wife and her lover. The judge describes Andy as cold and
sends him to the Shawshank prison to serve two life sentences. Andy,
however, maintains his innocence, despite the fact that he was seen at
the murder scene carrying a weapon.In prison, Andy eventually gains the respect of his inmates, including
the influential prisoner 'Red' (Morgan Freeman) who 'gets things' for
the prisoners. Later, Andy's knowledge of finance gains him popularity
with the cruel prison guards and the Warden (Bob Gunton).The development of the friendship between Red and Andy is one of the
focal points of the film as each man learns from the other. Several
subplots are nicely intertwined into the film, none better than the
story of old Brooks Hatlen (James Whitmore) and his release from
prison. Having spent so much time at Shawshank, Brooks has become
'institutionalised' i.e. so attached to prison that he cannot cope in
the outside world. The sense of helplessness and solitude Brooks feels
when released is one of the films most genuinely emotional moments.The plot of the movie is solid, and while it encompasses some 20 years,
it transitions well and never really feels slow. Credit for this must
go to screenwriter Frank Darabont who nicely adapts Stephen King's
novel to the big screen. The entire cast of the movie gives standout performances, led by
Robbins. Robbins portrays Andy beautifully throughout the film,
especially with his facial expressions. His eyes are incredibly focused
and haunting throughout and he often wears a smile on his face that
belies his situation. Freeman does well as Red, playing him with
confidence and a sense of despair at the same time.Visually the film opts for a very grey tone that fits in with the
dreary feel of the prison and the prisoners. It also succeeds in
helping Andy to stick out, as his hope and demeanour contradict the
tone.The Shawshank Redemption is a truly beautiful film, easily one of the
best of the 90's, filled with a great story, acting, emotion and a
series of memorable quotes.


******
27 August 2004
10

There are some movies that come along that truly make a difference in
cinema and in peoples lives. In my opinion, this is one of those films.***spoilers*** (minor)The movie is about a man wrongfully accused of a crime. He is sentenced
to life in prison. He ends up at Shawshank. A prison with a lot more
going on than what shows on the outside.There are quite a few things that make this film a masterpiece. One is
the story and its qualities and values. Another is its amazing acting
by all cast members in the film. The music was great and the
cinematography is creative. I don't believe there's a flaw in this
movie.11/10 haha!


******
25 August 2004
8
Superb acting and brilliant performances from Tim Robbins (Mystic
River) and Morgan Freeman (Million Dollar Baby), who play as inmates,
Tim Robbins playing a man framed for the murder of his wife and the man
who she had an affair with. The two inmates develop a friendship over
the twenty odd years spent in the prison.This movie portrays an ugly, though bearable life in prison through the
40s, 50s, and 60s.It's a strong piece on how far one will go to redeem himself, even if
those things that must be redeemed are not by any means loathsome. See
it if you haven't.

******
24 August 2004
10

Morgan Freeman as Red was truly inspired (even if the original story had a
white guy), they even used his son for the photo of the inmate as a young
man...Tim Robbins as Andy DuFresne was marvelous understatement, Clancy brown as
the on/off guard-friend of Andy was a good touch and a boost for his career
apart from Starship Trooper... Now, Clancy is in HBO's "Carnivale" series
and has his own website! As for the warden and "sisters,"  they were equally
well-cast and the plot of the movie flowed despite what fan-sites may or may
not nit-pick about.It is a tribute to perseverance and determination combined with patience and
retribution couched in careful long-term planning that any true financial
head is accustomed to (remember, Andy was a Bank Manager, that knowledge
saved him more than once)...Justice sometimes comes from beyond the law if you can wait long enough!
This picture is second after "Casablanca"!!

******
9 August 2004
10

I find it amazing that a film like this rates so highly on the IMDb Top
250.It's not really a 'cinematic' film like LOTR or Star Wars- you don't
look at it and go 'wow, what an amazing shot!' or 'how did they do
that?'. Similarly, it's not chock-full of catch-phrases and snappy
dialogue like 'Pulp Fiction', 'Casablanca', or indeed memorable scenes
like 'the Godfather'. Could anyone really talk about 'Shawshank' in the
way that people always discuss 'the Godfather' or 'LOTR'- "remember
that moment when..."'Shawshank' isn't a big, spectacular film, and nor is it particularly
witty.Instead, its success is entirely down to the quality of the story,
helped along by some very 'real' acting. I've now seen this film 4-5
times on odd occasions, and it just gets better every time. The story
just draws you in- you feel for the characters, and I love the way the
surprise (well, surprise-ish) ending is perfectly believable without
ever being overtly signposted. I've heard that it's been much more
successful on DVD and video than it was at the cinema- and I think that
illustrates the type of movie it is.'Shawshank' is perhaps the best 'story' movie of recent times, and
clearly deserves its place near the top of the IMDb rankings. Watch it
curled up on the couch with a cup of coffee and a warm cosy wife...


******
7 August 2004
9
Overall, this is one of the finest films I've ever seen. Frank
Darabont's masterful screenplay rendering of Stephen King's marginal
novella brought every possible human emotion into play. And, every
actor in the film did a superb job of translating this fiction into a
believable reality.On a scale from 1 to 100, I'd rate this movie a solid 99. Only one
thing was lacking in the film to raise that score to 100 ... but this
is just a personal thing.POSSIBLE SPOILERS FOLLOWS:During his time in prison, Andy Dufresne learns the identity of the man
who killed his wife - a man named Elmo Blatch. And, he learns enough
information about Blatch to render him "trackable" by an investigator.
If 2 brief scenes had been added to the film, I'd have rated it a
perfect film:ADDED SCENE #1 - Shortly before his escape, Andy is seen talking to
another inmate who gives him contact info for a person on the outside
who does contract murder.ADDED SCENE #2 - Shortly before Red's release from prison, we see him
reading a newspaper story on the murder of an ex-con named Elmo Blatch.Between the time of Andy's escape and Red's release, there would have
been ample time for Andy to hire a private eye to track down Blatch
and, afterward, hire a contract killer to kill him. Had I been Andy,
I'd not have felt truly free of the suffering I'd endured in prison
unless I knew the real killer got his just due. What Andy did to the
Warden and Hadley is all well and good. But Blatch's death would settle
all scores once and for all.

******
7 August 2004
9

A film I can watch over and over again - great storyline, beautifully
filmed, top-notch acting - I always feel good about myself after
watching it - there's hope for us all, even the most downtrodden
nonentities in this miserable world of ours! cinematic brilliance. Tim
Robbins plays the lead character's role with such a classy
understatement, & Morgan Freeman delivers a powerful and nuanced
performance that always lifts my soul as well as the great performance
by all the supporting actors. I will be the first person to admit to
having a slight eclectic taste in films, but this still ranks as one of
my favourite films of all time. This truly is my definition of
cinematic brilliance - pity we don't get more films like this anymore.


******
7 August 2004
10

I just know it will be a unforgettable movie in my life ! By some
reason , It's my first time to watch it in a TV channel at 2004. I am
shocked why I miss it for ten years ! Maybe it is time for me to
understand it more ?".....these walls are funny. First you hate them. Then you get used to
them. Enough time passes......you get so you depend on them. That's
institutionalized.""I wake up scared. Sometimes it takes me a while to remember where I
am.""Bad luck , I guess. It floats around. It's got to land on somebody. It
was my turn, that's all. I was in the path of the tornado. I just
didn't expect the storm would last as long as it has.""I have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged.
Their feathers are just too bright. And when they fly away......the
part of you that knows it was a sin to lock them up does rejoice."Andy was escape from his situation , Were we found our "Bible" and
"Hammer" ? I hope you did it ! 10/10


******
24 July 2004
10

The finest movie ever made, no question. If you can sit through this
and not be moved by the sheer power of the story, performances and
imagery you are not of this earth. I had already read the Stephen King
short story so the ending was no surprise but, guess what, it didn't
matter ! That was just the cherry on top of a supreme masterpiece of
chocolate cake. This is the current yard stick by which all other
movies should be measured against. The basic foundation of the film is
so strong that all the other parts must have dropped into place with
,seemingly, effortless ease. Hopefully one day something better will
come along that will shift the goal posts once again. But for now, The
Shawshank Redemption is a more than worthy No. 1 on IMDb.


******
4 July 2004
10

To me this is one of the best films ever to grace the big screen, it
has the lot. I have seen the green mile as well but this film stands
shoulders above it, It made me laugh, shed a tear and smile from ear to
ear, its truly a magnificent piece of cinema magic and i recommend this
film to everyone. Stephen King knows how to write suspense and horror
and Frank Darabont knows how to direct. The characters are brilliant
and there performances a sight to behold, Morgan freeman is brilliant
as the man who can get you anything (in my eyes this is his finest
performance as an actor) The music as well adds to feel of the film and
makes it an absolute pleasure to watch.I think the film will appeal to anyone and will carry on being a
classic for many many years to come, i don't think i have seen a film
that has meant so much to me, it makes a change to watch a truly awe
inspiring, golden film such as The Shawshank Redemption instead of the
normal Hollywood action flick.


******
25 June 2004
10

This is a love story, as old as the hills and yet with freshness that
can only be given to us by great Celluloid actors such as Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins. There are many examples of this throughout
literature and the adaptation of this from word to film is
breathtaking.Andy and Red quite obviously have a deep and abiding love and respect
for each other that transcends any feeling we might otherwise have
about the nature of their love, which incidentally is not a homosexual
love.But let us not forget the other performances. How wonderful to see
James Whitmore as Brooks Hatlen and of course the brilliant William
Saddler. It would have been too easy to slip into a prison melodrama
but I think it was played perfectly by having Red narrate throughout,
the two most wonderful pieces of narrative are where Andy plays Mozart
over the prison loudspeakers and where Red sits in his cell, fearful
and alone in the dark on the night of Andy's escape. 'Some things are just too beautiful.' 'Time draws out like a blade.'I guess that encapsulates the whole thing for me, because it's how time
draws out while watching this beautiful picture. The blade cuts you to
the heart because you long for Red and Andy to fulfil their hope.If I could, I would give this more than 10 out of 10 but I cannot.
Instead I'll just say that this movie will give pleasure to people when
played as an oldie in 50 years, because the story is timeless. No
special effects, no fancy graphics, just a simple story, beautifully
told and acted superbly.


******
15 June 2004
10

I first saw this movie when Channel 4 showed it in the UK in September
2001. I had just come back from a wonderful holiday in Ohio, USA and
had never heard of this movie before. I just happened to flick to
channel 4 and caught a glimpse of Morgan Freeman watching Tim Robbins
make his entrance into Shawshank. I had missed the opening scene with
the court case. My first impressions was that this was going to be a
typical prison drama but I reached for the TV guide and read more about
it. It starred Morgan Freeman who I remember from Along Came a Spider
and Deep Impact and Tim Robbins who I have heard of but never seen on
screen before. The TV guide gave it a good rating and review so I
thought i might continue to watch it.In the opening scenes, I predicted possible rivalries between Andy and
Heywood, however I was glad this was not the case as both characters
became well-liked throughout the film. I even thought there would be
tension between Andy and Red, but I was delighted that they became best
friends throughout the movie. Along the way, I found the movie becoming
interesting with many plots running alongside each other and beautiful
photography. I held my breath when Hadley almost threw Andy off the
roof and Morgan Freeman's story telling was first rate. Another scene that moved me was Andy playing the Mozart record and
giving hope to all prisoners in Shawshank. I even went out to buy the
fantastic soundtrack with the song as well as the superb score by
Thomas Newman. I must say I was concerned when Andy got in trouble for
that stunt, as I thought eventually the warden was going to help him
solve his case. All the characters gave memorable performances and I
was moved by Brooks taking his own life as he couldn't cope on the
outside. I was shocked when Tommy revealed Andy's innocence and equally
curious when the warden refused to help him. Nothing prepared me for
the way Andy escaped, I was so glad he did but felt for Red at the same
time. I was thrilled when Red got his parole and just hoped he didn't feel
institutionalised like Brookes. I thought Red blew it when he talked up
to the parole board but had a chuckle when he finally left Shawshank.
Other moving scenes were Red reading Andy's letter and making his way
through the fields surrounded with grasshoppers. The scene that took my
breath away the most, was the shot of the bus as it made its way along
the road with the brilliant sunlight, it looked just like the area
where I had just come from in Ohio, as well as Red and Brookes in Main
Street, Mansfield which I recognised. This film is long, but it
certainly didn't seem that way to me, it is a movie you wish would go
on for a bit more longer. I was stunned at the end, very moved, very
happy and almost in tears. This film is truly a work of art, probably
the finest movie ever made with superb acting from all of the
characters, beautiful music, cinematography and so much better than the
novel it is based on. I cannot believe it did not win any Oscars
despite many nominations. It gives the viewer a sense of hope,
happiness and satisfaction all in one and anyone can see this movie
whatever mood they are in. The movie is also funny, who can forget
Hadley with his, "if I hear anything more than a mousefart..." or Tommy
explaining when he got arrested and had to drop a TV set. This movie
makes you feel great to be alive and as Red says this movie is "so
beautiful it cannot be expressed in words". I bought the DVD for my
family to watch and their stunned silence at end confirmed my
suspicions that they loved this movie too.Shawshank Redemption is going to be re-released in the UK in September
and I would encourage anyone who hasn't seen it before to go and see it
and hopefully feel the same way I felt when I first saw this movie.
There is so much to appreciate about this movie and everytime I see it
again, I love it even more.


******
10 June 2004
10

                                           The Shawshank Redemption is
without a doubt one of the best film's of the 90's. Morgan Freeman has
another outstanding performance just like he had in Glory. The plot was as
good as ever along with the dialouge. The music was nice and the atmosphere
in the film felt like it was in the 40's, 50's, and 60's. Beautiful full of
triumphant acting. This is Frank Darabont's best movie, even better than The
Green Mile which I also though was really good. This is one of the most
recommended films of the 90's and you definitely will enjoy it. I mean come
on guys, it even got in the 250 movies of all-time with a 9.0 and it got #2.
Excellent film!!10/10!!

******
10 June 2004
10

A wonderfully made movie. The best thing about movie is it never looses
its pace. Neither it gets fast nor it gets slow... Rightly placed at #2
on IMDb.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman makes a great pair in the movie.
Villain, Bob Gluton, the Jailer performs his role very well. "Hope is
good thing, probably one of the best thing, and no good thing ever
dies" is the central theme of the movie according to me. Calm, Placid banker Andrew Dufresene lives his life with hope without
loosing his temper. and that's the movie is all about. Frank Darabont
did an amazing job adapting from Stephen King's short story, and he
deserves as much praise for it as possible. Nobody, not even my
favourite writers such as the Coen brothers of Quentin Tarantino
(partly for the fact that the first only writes comedies and the latter
only fares in blood spatter) could have achieved this amazing script,
which completely uplifts and spellbinds the viewer.


******
29 May 2004
10

When viewers see a young banker's character (Dufresne) convicted of a
gruesome murder, and later when they see him vindicate himself with the
help of pure courage and hope, it evokes high emotions like triumph and
hope. Each scene is skillfully written with viewers' perspective
considered all through the film. Excellent work due to which Frank
Darabont never need prove himself as a director again, because this one
goes down in the history books as one of the best dramas ever written.Dufresne's character does what's on his mind says and never shows
feelings of captivity while at Shawshank. The character is carved out
meticulously displaying traits like intelligence and a mind determined
to surviveMorgan Freeman ('Red') delivers a brilliant performance, deserving the
Academy Award that year which ultimately landed up with Tom Hanks
('Forrest Gump').


******
29 May 2004
10

Well what can I say about this modern day classic that hasn't been told
already. It seems that most of us who have been lucky enough to watch
this gem have been profoundly moved by this story. Not hearing anything
about the release of this film in '96, I rented this out without any
idea what to expect, other than it was a prison drama. Now I love
prison flicks and my favourites are Brubaker, Birdman of Alcatrez and
Stir Crazy, but after watching Shawshank Redemption I can say this is
one of the best films ever made, and one of the very few movies that
made me cry, and it takes a lot for me to shed a tear. I think the last
time I cried was at my grandpas funeral, but that was a different
emotion to the one I felt watching the Shawshank Redemption. The ending
was filled with a great deal of satisfaction and hope that you rarely
get in any film today. If you want to watch a film that has a story
that covers human survival, struggle, bonding and hope and want to be
uplifted than this is the one to watch.


******
28 May 2004
10

It's weird to see a good rated movie only after ten years and find
yourself smiling happily at the end. There are less and less movies
able to provide that feeling.The Shawshank Redemption is one great movie that reaches to your heart
and mind and makes them both better. I won't go around comment about
how it's like or how it's been made. I just wanted to share what it
made me feel like.If you haven't seen it, go out, rent it and watch it. It's definitely
worth the time and the money. I finally understand why its rating is
that high.


******
17 May 2004
10

After watching it a few time, this film has become my favourite! Each
time I watch it I get more and more into the characters and I love it
even more. On the contrary of what you might think at first the plot is
not about escaping from the prison. If it was only that it wouldn't be
anything special as there have been a lot of films on that subject.
What the film is about is the development of the characters themselves.I don't want to spoil it at all so I won't say any more about the
story. All I can say is that I don't see to this day anything wrong
with the film. Everything is brilliant from the acting to the music. I
don't see how it is possible for somebody not to like it. I'd recommend
it to anybody. It's one of those films which make you realize that you
don't need CGI and big explosions to make a great film. But on the
contrary big budget films are often the worst...


******
27 April 2004
10

A lot of people measure things on a scale of 1 to 10. A lot of times
people
will say that something was really good and rate that object in the high
9s.
A lot times people will say 10 because the movie appealed to them
personally, but others will not think so because it did not do the same to
them. Universally, however it is hard to give a movie a 10. But, man, oh
man, this takes the cake. If this isn't a 10 I don't know what is. This is
a
masterpiece. Dude, I mean come on, this film is AMAZING! Not based on
favorites, but based on the quality of the film, itself, on every level,
how
can someone not say that this is overall the best film of all time? Story,
acting, cinematography, sales,and universal appeal all work together to
make
this a great movie. This movie is perfect. Perfect, and no one can say a
anything to take that away. Ask anyone on the street who has seen this
movie
and see if they didn't like it. No one will speak ill of this work of art,
no one ( 1 in a 1000 at most). If this isn't what a perfect 10 film should
be based on, then I don't know what will.10/10

******
25 April 2004
10

This has got to be one of the best movies i have seen in a long time
,
the way the friendship between Andy and red develops and all the issues
that
are addressed in it makes it worth watching.It will keep you hooked all
the
way through.i really recommend watching it.Just see where it is on the
IMDB
top 250 list.
It is the best prison film i have ever seen and its extremely well acted
by
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins along with the other actors.
It isn't all drama though it is really funny at times and tear jerking too
it comes highly recommended by movie critics alike.
If you haven't seen this movie your really missing out!

******
24 April 2004
10

Andy Duffrane ---- the greatest hero ;
Stephen King ---- the greatest scenartist ;
Wooden Norton ---- the greatest villain ;
Tim Robbins ---- the greatest actor ;
Morgan Freeman ---- the greatest minor role ; 
Brooks ---- the greatest victim ;
the hole --- the greatest miracle ;
Freedom --- the greatest spirit .make it the greatest film ,But I don't know why didn't it win any Oscar ?

******
18 April 2004
10

Quite simply, the finest film that I have ever had the pleasure to see.
It's
a classic take of good overcoming the bad, and takes viewers on an
emotional
journey through the lives of inmates, particularly Andy Dufrene and Ellis
Redding, at Shawshank jail.I have seen this movie at least ten times, and is one of the few films
that
I could honestly watch over and over again - always more to look out for,
always more ways to enjoy it.The story, direction, casting and acting are all second to none, and
together create a nigh perfect cinematic experience.I urge anyone who has not seen this movie to watch it as soon as
possible.

******
17 April 2004
9
Weather the person liked the movie or found it one of there favourite
movies, they still have to admit that it is one of the greatest movies
ever
made. There was so much symbolisim and moments that people will never
forget
that it will change the way they think what a good movie
is.From the crow being set free to a thunderstorm and all the way to each and
everybody character, everything symbolized something in this movie. It
isn't
hard tofigure out what each and every one of them means though like Lord
of
the Flies and still makes you think even more then Lord of the Flies. To
add
on Lord of the Flies was boring and this left the viewer on the edge of
there seat thoughout the whole movie.Gasping, crying, laughing, heartbroken, thrilled are all some of the very
emotions you'll feel in this movie then almost any other movie ever made.
A
connection to the characters can eaisly be made many times thoughout the
movie and you simply want to goodguys to win, even if they arn't goodguys
in
society.The acting was amazing and perfect. Freeman delivered each and every
monologue perfectly and professionally and put up as great as a
preformance,
if not better, then the movie Se7en. Robbins put up his best preformance
anybody will probibly ever see him in making us connect to him and leaving
a
mystery though half the movie weather he did shoot his wife or if he was
innosent. The Warden (Gunton) reaches to one of the great movie villians
I've seen and the other bad guy Byron (Brown) puts up a preformance almost
as great as Sgt. Heart from Full Medal Jacket. Tommy Williams at first
sight
makes you seem like he's an elvis wannabe who seriously needs a life, but
after time when Robbins starts to work with him you start to feel for him
until your left in gasp at his last scene. Whitmore, who plays Brooks, has
the viewer laughing, crying and screaming no at parts. The acting was
perfect by all the major characters.What could be perfect acting without perfect writing and perfect dialouge
though? Stephen King wrote a masterpeice and it was written into perfect
dialouge for this movie. Each and every monolouge was written to a
masterpeice.The directing was just perfect also, enough said.To those that haven't seen this movie yet, I suggest to go see it a.s.a.p
to
know what a perfect movie is.

******
17 April 2004
9

But for me this is my second favorite film of all time.  Some just think
it's too
sentimental in some areas, but I just don't agree. Sure, Frank Darabont
may
have had a
one time hit from a Stephen King novel, but what he was able to do with
this
character
driven compelling story truly amazes me.  The movie gets me every time,
draws me in
and holds me there.  The use of voice-over is used so well in this movie
and
the range
of emotion from Morgan Freeman's character just astonishes me.It follows twenty years of the Red character, played by Morgan Freeman and
it chronicles
his life in a maximum-security prison and how one Andy Dufresne affects
his
life played
brilliantly by Tim Robbins.  Now, some may argue with me that it is Tim
Robbins movie,
but I would have to disagree since the character that goes through the
acceptance and
the change throughout the story is Red.  This is the one movie where you
could really
have two leads, two protagonists, because they are both developed so well
and their
relationship is so fascinating to watch.I never tire of this movie.  The end monologue still makes me tear up
every
time, and it
doesn't matter if I watched the movie all the way through, or if I just
popped in for the
last few minutes on TBS.  It is such a masterfully told story of
redemption
and hope that
if you love storytelling, you will love this movie.  I love movies from
every era, but this
and Rushmore are my two favorite movies of all time.  Without a
doubt!

******
16 April 2004
10

Shawshank Redemption Is as Perfect as a Film Can Get This film has
everything , Tim Robbins (Andy Dufresne) Has played His ace in his acting
life With this film He plays his part so close to perfect it hurts ,
Morgan
Freeman (Red) also played a massive part in the film and his acting at
times
was amazing together with tim robbins they made the film as good as it
was,
but even Bob Gunton (Warden Samuel Norton) played a superb ruthless warden
Together with  Clancy Brown (Capt. Byron Hadley) They made acting seem so
easy and it was joy to watch them , also this movie had u thinking whats
gonna happen next will he or wont he. It Was just one them movies that was
always destined to be massive Hit with many great quotes and smooth as u
can
get storyline with an amazing twist to the plot that will catch u off
gaurd
anyone who has not seen this sould watch it soon as possible to see how
films sould be made 10/10Fear Can Hold U Prisoner. Hope Can Set U Free.

******
12 April 2004
10

"The Shawshank Redemption" is one of those films that stays with you for
life. This is a perfect display of modern film-making with beautiful
cinematography and wonderfully narrated by Morgan Freeman.The story is not an entirely original idea and appears to have borrowed
considerably from other films (notably "Escape from Alcatraz") but this
does
not seem to matter, since the most intriguing part of this film is HOW the
story is told. With the help of some excellent editing and a heart-warming
narration by Morgan Freeman (of course, not forgetting a very-well-written
script by director Frank Darabont), the story unfolds in such a manner
that
will keep you entirely engulfed in the film from start to
finish.There is hardly a fault to be found with this film. The well-fleshed out
and
believable characters are exquisitely portrayed on the screen,
particularly
by Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins who work brilliantly together. The
script
is consistently paced but never rushed, allowing the events to unfold.
Despite the runtime almost reaching two and a half hours, the film never
drags, nor does it feel too long. The cinematography is an absolute treat,
with Roger Deakins superbly capturing the colours of mid-20th century
America. Perhaps the only flaws that can be found with this fantastic work
are the apparent lack of ageing of characters, despite the story taking
place over almost twenty years, and the slightly unoriginal (in parts)
plot.
However, neither of these 'flaws' detract from what this film is - an
outstanding piece of storytelling that captures the audience with every
image."The Shawshank Redemption" is a perfect display of storytelling and is
beautifully uninhibited by the sorts of visual effects that unnecessarily
spoil so many films today. But the most important thing about this film is
that it is believable and extremely watchable. It is easy for the audience
to connect with the characters, and thus - thanks to the excellent acting
by
Robbins and Freeman in the lead roles - we can feel for them and respond
accordingly."The Shawshank Redemption" - as a masterpiece in storytelling - may never
be
surpassed. Few films get as close to perfection as this one does; the
acting
and cinematography, in particular, are absolute joys. Two thumbs up to
Frank
Darabont and his crew for creating such a wonderful masterpiece that will
live in our hearts forever.***** out of *****

******
8 April 2004
10

Sucked into this movie by his earnest persona, I watched despite the
(apparent) certainty that he would live out his whole life in prison for a
crime he says he did not commit : a depressing thought but a totally
upbeat
movie as his character Andy moves from surviving to molding the lives of
others in a positive way. Told from the viewpoint of fellow prisoner
recounting his experiences with Robbins' character (Morgan Freeman -
another
delight to watch) This movie, like its protagonist, is a champ! Watch this
movie! I've seen it four times and still channel-stop on it.(PS Be sure to
hiss at Bob Gunton as the truly evil and hypocritical warden! A real
contrast to Andy's good nature and philanthropy.)

******
4 April 2004
10

I would only put this movie behind the LOTR trilogy (I consider them one
movie). It is a great tale and even though you know something good will
happen, you don't know exactly how, though when looking back it was pretty
clear. I value movies by how entertaining and captivating they are. This
one
was both. Many people like to put on their "film-maker" hats too much.
This
movie doesn't really show great symbolism or tricky camera work. Its just
a
very good story with very good acting. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are
unreal, and all the supporting characters (Brooks, the prison guards,
etc.)
make the film complete. It took my a long time to see this movie, even
though its on TNT and TBS like every weekend. I must say I was thrilled.
Just excellent. 10/10 easy.

******
3 April 2004
10

No wonder this movie is on second place in the top 100 movies here on
imdb.com This is one of my absolute favorite movies of all time and i still
haven't met anyone who doesn't love it as much as i do. And if i do i will
probably look at them funny and ask what is wrong with them. Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman are both excellent in this "innocent man wants his freedom"
movie. This film is about friendship, freedom and justice. A man is sent to
Shawshank prison for something he didn't commit. Here he meets a man who
will become his best friend. They stick up for each other against the
corrupt prison system and other inmates. You really have to see it to
understand how fantastic this movie is. I rate this movie
10

******
28 March 2004
10

Before you start reading my comments on this movie, please keep in mind
there are very minor spoilers, so if you haven't seen it.what are you
thinking, go and watch the movie, you won't be disappointed.This is the first time I've written a comment about a movie on this
website,
but I think it will be my first of many as I have so many favourite movies
I
love to share my opinion about on the message boards.I only just stumbled across 'The Shawshank Redemption' about a year ago, I
had noticed it was ranked number 2 and thought I'd give it ago. I've heard
people talking about it and how great it is, so I bought the movie and I
watched it. I admit that I had to watch it twice before I fell in awe of
this movie, but now it's become one of my favourites.This movie is about hope. There is nothing set in stone. Someone may be
able
to take away everything you have in life, but whatever you think, whatever
you feel they can never take away your thoughts, they can never take away
your hope and that's what happened with Andy. He may have sunk to the
bottom
of the hole, but he never gave up hope that he would get out.This is a true masterpiece and it is well written, well acted, well
directed, well it's just brilliant. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman produce
a
great friendship in this movie. It may not have won the Oscars, as it lost
to another great movie, but it certainly left an imprint in the movie
world
and to me.One more thing, watch out for James Whitmore as Brooks, he's sure to break
your heart and move you to a place you don't go too often.Remember, if you didn't like it the first time, give it another chance and
watch it again, I promise you, you won't be disappointed you will notice
little things and the scenes that you have overlooked. It's sure to turn
your head and mesmerize you.


******
16 March 2004
10

this is one of the greatest movies ever made. I have watched this movie
over
two dozen times. I never tire of seeing "Andy Get Them". the lack of
awards
that this movie recieve was a true travesty. Tim Robbins performance ranks
as quite possibly his best and considering who we are talking about that
is
saying alot. Morgan Freeman talent overshadow the fact that he was not
like
his character in the book. The rest of the cast though for the most part
nameless is extraordinary. Chief among them though is Ron Perlman. There
cant be anyone who didnt feel a great swell of joy when they heard the
chess
piece go through the poster. This is one of the greatest cinema moments i
have ever witnessed. This film taps into you and elicts a great emotion.
This is something few movies have or ever will do, but it is what makes
this
one of the greatest films ever made.

******
15 March 2004
9

My Rating: ***1/2 out of ****. SpoilersIn many ways, I am more than a little shocked at the overwhelming popularity
of The Shawshank Redemption. I am not in anyway saying that it is a bad
film, in fact its a great film. However, I never thought Shawshank would
appeal to so many people. It just seems odd that it has received over
112,000 votes (More than the Godfather) and it is #2 on the Imdb top 250
list. I do not think it deserves this high position but it is nice to see
the film get alot of notice.Shawshank deserves high marks in these categories: Directing, Acting,
Cinematography, and Writing. This was the debut feature for Frank Darabont
and he chooses to let Shawshank unravel at a slow pace. This is the perfect
choice for the film. It moves slow but it is nevertheless compelling. There
is only one time when the slow pace actually interferes with the film.Darabont also gets some highly impressive from his cast. Tim Robbins gives a
strong, subdued performance. Morgan Freeman, who was nominated for a Best
Actor Oscar, does an equally strong job here. The chemistry between them is
effective too. As strong as the two leads are, they do not outshine the supporting cast.
All of them are excellent but two of them deserve to be singled out. James
Whitmore gives a brilliantly moving performance. Bob Gunton also deserves
mention as the warden in charge of Shawshank. Cinematographer Roger Deakins should be given a lot of credit. He finds the
perfect mood for the film. Shawshank is not a colorful place at all. He
creates a dreary atmosphere that fits the film perfectly. There alot of uses
of the color, gray that is used to create this atmosphere.I have heard a couple of complaints that the film gets a little preachy at
times. I cannot find where it does. In my opinion, Shawshank Redemption is a
well-written film. There are numerous memorable quotes.Shawshank does have one flaw. I think it begins to drag near the end. This
happens after Morgan Freeman is released from prison. These moments are the
only times when the slow pace interferes with the film.While I do not think the film deserves its high spot on the 250 list, it is
a compelling and moving film. Shawshank does enough things right to overlook
its sluggish ending. I recommend the film to everyone.  

******
15 March 2004
10

I dont know from where to start talkin about this movie.. i saw this movie
around 4yrs bak. i have never been so involved in a movie
before..
this totally took me by surprise .. everything about this movie be it the
performance of the actors.. the story telling is excellent.. the situation
of the prison life being shown really touches you.. and the climax was
more
than an icing on the cake.. its background score is just awesome.. esp the
part of "brooks was here " i cant get enuff of that piece of music.. all
in
it easily comes as the best movie i have eva seen.. and one thing i
usually
do is make other people also watch this masterpiece.. its
brilliant..

******
14 March 2004
8

This is a very fine movie that was unfortunately somewhat overlooked when it
was first released. Word of mouth and critical acclaim has resulted in the
movie becoming one of the best known and loved films of recent times.The story tells of the imprisonment of Andy Dufresne (Robbins) at the harsh
Shawshank prison. Gradually over time he befriends Red (Freeman) who is the
fixer in the prison who can get hold of any items at a price. Andy channels
his frustration into making things better at the prison. The smallest
achievement is celebrated and used as impetus for the next challenge. The
film should really make the viewer treasure the things that we all take for
granted on a day to day basis. The other interesting aspect of the film is
the institutionalisation as portrayed with Brooks. he has been in prison for
so long he cannot (and does not want to) survive on the outside.
9/10

******
11 March 2004
10

It's sad it's uplifting. It's right it's wrong. but most of all it's the
greatest film of our time and everyone should have this in their
collection.
Everything from the heartache that tim robbins character faced to the
power
of friendship with one mans struggle agains a wall of oppression he made
his
path to the top and he fool them all. This is with out a doubt the
greatest
thing I have ever watched and I feel that everyone should know about it
and
watch it at least 20 times, for there are some valuable lessons to be
learnt
but dont take my word for it go there and see for yourself. This film set
the marker for what prision films aspire to. These guys should be knighted
and given the key to the world never mind the city.

******
11 March 2004
10
If this is not the best movie of all time, it is no doubt an amazing
phenomenon and possibly the most beloved movie of our time. I have heard
literally hundreds of people talk in glowing terms about this movie and
mention it as their favorite, and I'm not even conducting a poll. I was
blown away when I saw it ten years ago in the theater and to me it's still
the best movie I have ever seen. Best ever? Who cares. The votes on this
site speak for themselves. This movie has gotten where it has without hype
or pretense; it just is what it is - the most beloved movie of our
time.

******
10 March 2004
10

This perfect prison drama has everything except women.  Tim Robbins gives
a
truly majestic performance and should've been nominated for an Oscar
alongside co-star Morgan Freeman (he's good, too).  It's a whole lot
better
than other prison movies you see nowadays.  The film is honest, deep, and
shows that you can find hope in the most unlikely of places.  I would give
this movie ten thumbs up if I had ten thumbs.  But since I don't, I'll
just
give it two.  I wish Stephen King could write more honest stories like
this
one.  Remember, this movie came beforere 'The Green Mile', and everyone
knows classics are always better.
It's nice to see that Hollywood can produce movies that aren't complete
garbage. 

******
6 March 2004
10

The Shawshank Redemption is perhaps the best movie that I have seen. It was
a deep and enjoyable movie experience. I would give it 5 out of 5 stars. It
not only had very good actors, but I also thought that it had and excellent
screenplay. Tim Robbins, I hope did not get typecast from playing that role
as well as Morgan Freeman. Overall, it is a movie at it's best. It is
certainly to be commended. I have not seen a finer example of anything
realistic. From start to finish, it was non stop enjoyment for me. The
relationships between the characters were very high as far as "good
chemistry". Morgan Freeman also did a very outstanding job of being the
narrator of the story. He made it very realistic. It certainly is to be
among the top 10 best movies ever made.

******
26 February 2004
10

 At the beginning i thought, this would be an another annoying movie, but
now i've a totally different opinion.
 I saw it yesterday, it was amazing, absolutely amazing!
 I've got to add this one to my favourite list of movies, which is very
short ;):
(Finding Forrester, Shawshank, Adrenalin: Fear the rush) The Shawshank should be on the 1st place in the "Top 250", that's the right
place for it! 
1 of 10, i gave it 10!
It's fair enough!

******
26 February 2004
10
In this moving and dramatic portrayl of the imprisonment of an
influencial man (Tim Robbins) in Shawshank prison. This man builds up
strong
relationships and is a benefit to the lives of many in the prison.Tim Robbins plays his character with superb acting, backed up by an
equally amazing supporting cast. The story takes the main character,
Dufrain, and his friends on a journey through the rigures of prison life.Wonderfully directed and produced, this film topped the box office
chart
and was quite rightly rated extreemly highly among imdb users when it
first
came out. This fantastic film has new suprises at every corner. Do not
miss
it! 

******
22 February 2004
10

This movie is the best movie ever made. I'm not a fan of drama, but this
movie is just amazing. It incorporates some comedy in there, too. The plot
is outstanding. In a nutshell, it is the best movie of all
time.

******
20 February 2004
10

The greatest travesty ever to happen at the Oscars, I feel, was the fact
that Forrest Gump totally dominated this film cum Oscar night. For one
year,
two at a stretch, people still felt Forrest Gump to be the superior film,
but now nearly everyone knows the truth.The Shawshank Redemption is a truly wonderful film. Having two fine actors
in the leading roles at the top of their game is not bad, having two fine
actors is not bad, full stop. This film was made by the chemistry between
Freeman ( Red ) and Robbin ( Andy ) and their respective characters. There
were some great small roles in the film, none more so I felt than Gil
Bellows part as the cocky small-time thief, Tommy, who turns out to be a
very important character in the film.On the writing front, Stephen King isn't known for his screenplays, let
alone a non-horror work, but he delivered a wonderful story for this film.
It is basically a story of friendship and hope, but it is not like other
soppy buddy-buddy films. It is violent at times and touching at others, it
is basically a fantastic piece of work.

******
16 February 2004
10

This is the most enjoyable movie ever made. With many one liners that can
fill ones life with hope.This movie came out the same year that Pulp
Fiction
and Forrest Junk came out, the only reason this was not a Best Picture
winner. Vote 10 if you can.

******
9 February 2004
9

While the movie truly is one of the best ever made in terms of the impact
is
has had on so many people (IMDB #2), I hope people understand that in this
case, most of the power comes from the story, the rest from the
presentation. I was a Stephen King fan when i was young and this story was
one of the reasons.The flaw in the movie comes right at the end. The movie simply goes on for
about 30 seconds too long. Storytelling is also about knowing how to end a
story and King got it right in the book. The movie's ending does not
contain
the same wonderous, makes-you-think impact that King's does and that's a
shame because for me the movie is now less than perfect when it actually
deserves 10/10 on its own merit. Oh, what it could have been
!!Another King story ends well, Firestarter, and they did get it right in
the
movie. But Firestarter isn't as good as "The Shawshank Redemption".
Nothing
much is.

******
5 February 2004
10

I really wish that I had never seen this film as I have wasted so much of my
time in front of the tv watching this wonderfull film. I must have seen it
about 100 times, and bought the video or DVD 5 times for myself and friends. Well done to Frank Darrabont for making an excellent film from a very small
book, I can hardly believe that 2+ hours of my life have gone so quickly.
(As they say time flies when your enjoying yourself! )

******
4 February 2004
10

An emotional rollercoster that plods along for almost 3 hours.  It's only
a
few days later you realise how good a film it was and how it alters your
perception of life itself.You almost have to watch a second time just to try and understand what it
is
that you like so much, unfortunately, I still dont know why it has such an
impact on me.  I have now seen it 6 times and it still makes me cry in
wonder!

******
1 February 2004
10

I thought this film not only had an excellent and thoroughly interesting
plot, but had superb cinematography and excellent sound. A simple tale is
turned into a masterpiece with the two leading roles played by two
brilliant
actors. Morgan Freeman adds so much to the character 'Red', his face and
skill as an actor gives the character that spark that makes a film great.
I
cannot write one scathing word or phrase about this film. Simply
Amazing.

******
31 January 2004
10

Shawshank Redemtion combines great acting with a fantastic story, good
editing, and good direction to make this the best movie ever in my
opinion!
In fact, one of my favorite things to do is watch this movie with someone
who has never seen it.  I highly recommend seeing this movie, multiple
times!

******
29 January 2004
10

A truly great film. Probably the best prison movie ever made. Even thought
it's the only prison movie I've ever seen. Anyway, I think this movie
deserves the rating it has on IMDB. Now to get Saving Private Ryan's rating
up there. Okay I'll stay on topic. Morgan Freeman is at his very best in
this movie playing the "man who can get stuff for you" or Red. Tim Robbins
was also great as Andy Dufrense. Not only was the acting great, but so was
the story. The message here was one that I will never forget. But I won't
tell you what it is, you'll just have to watch the movie. 10/10. As I always
say to all my favorite movies, great job. 

******
29 January 2004
10

this is truly a masterpiec of acting and storytelling and it is one of my
favorites.  It has such an amazing and powerful story of friendship and
survival and that ending! a tad sentimental but so what! a movie like this
needs to be sentimental.  It cheers me up everytime i see
it

******
27 January 2004
10

I put this movie on when I'm down in the dumps, and each time I watch it I
get uplifted by the pure beauty of the film. It gives me so much hope and
light into the world, and it has to be one of the greatest films ever
made.
The acting was soft and emotional yet powerful. I adore
it.

******
27 January 2004
10

Can anything be said?
surely one of the greatest films of all time, it has tremendous acting and
some very sad moments in the film, throughout, the script is
solid.
The acting immense.
WELL DONE TO ALL INVOLVED!
Any comments email me- subject title SHAWSHANK.Cheers.


******
25 January 2004
10

What can I say...Flawless, spectacular, wonderful, brilliant, great,
classic, wondrous, an achievment beyond words!  This movie, is without a
doubt wonderful.  I remember seeing only a few moments of it on TV, when I
was twelve.  I rented it, and found myself ASTOUNDED by the magnitude of
its
emotion.  I didn't cry, but I felt as though someone had pierced my heart
with an arrow.  It felt good!!!  I have never seen anything in my life so
affecting.  This is my favorite film ever!  Nothing will ever beat this as
my number one.  I love Citizen Kane, and I think it is "the best film ever
made" on a critical standpoint, But I love this just a little bit more.
Cinematography, music, writing, directing, acting.  EVERYTHING PERFECT!
It
is spectacular.  I will never forget "The Shawshank Redemption".

******
25 January 2004
10

I really do think that this movie has earned a place in the illustrious
halls of Imdb at the number two position.
This movie gives you more each time you see it.  It is not an exercise of
the mind, rather a true introspection of the spirit, that reveals to each
of
us what we can only hope to become.However, I do think that Fraggle Rock deserves a place at number
four.

******
24 January 2004
10

This is a fantastic movie! A strong friendship in a tough prison, a strong
movie in the feelings, and a critical comment to American prisons. And a
surprising ending!Fantastic play from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman, in every way a great
movie.Andy Dufresne: Mr. Hadley, do you love your wife?10 out of 10!

******
23 January 2004
10

How the hell Forest "Dam" Gump won best picture over this Gem of a movie,
is
totaly beyond me. It just shows how the critics and hollywood itself can
get
it sooo wrong sometimes. Thankfully like all great movies that often sleep
at the box office.. true quality shines through,  and its great to see
that
the public recognise and all round great movie, regardless of what some
overpayed over inteligent critic would have them believe. For me it's the
kind of film you just don't want to end.. it's 2 and half hour long but it
never drags, and when it ends, you know you've seen "A GREAT MOVIE" and
you
feel full like you've just dined at the Ritz

******
18 January 2004
10

it is, if not, the greatest movie i have ever seen. it is inspiring, a
tribute to the great acting skills of morgan freeman and tim robbins.
there
are maybe two or three movies i would give a 10 to, and this is one of
them.
if you have never seen it before, you should watch it. movies like these
are
rare. 

******
14 January 2004
10
(very minor spoilers) I had to add this to my previous comment after
reading a more recent review here on IMDb. The review stated that
Christian fundamentalists hated the movie because it showed the true
hypocrisy of the Warden, along with his oft quoted Bible and the
stitched verse on his wall "Judgment cometh..." behind which he kept
his ill gotten gains. But I am a Christian conservative who loved this
movie for that very reason. It shows that God looks at the heart. The
Warden had a wicked heart, regardless of what came out of his mouth and
what he hung on his wall - and clearly his judgment did come! Andy was
kind at heart, offering friendship and help to any who would accept it,
and well, he got what he deserved in the end. When Red gave up trying
to pretend something before the parole board, trying to tell them what
they wanted to hear and instead just spoke the truth, he gets his
parole. Both Andy and Red refuse to give in to the despair of prison
life - instead doing what they can to bring a bit of beauty to the
prison. Andy never loses his humanity, and helps Red find his again.
They keep hoping till the very end, but don't just sit around waiting
for justice, but actively seek it. The ending makes the movie.My husband will not watch it - having a strong aversion to "prison
flicks" but I have seen it several times, and reading some of these
comments has made me want to see it again.It is one of my all time favorite movies - I never get tired of
watching it since I went out and bought the DVD. The first 30-45
minutes are full of heavy language and prison violence, but that only
makes the contrast between those who have given up their humanity and
those who have held onto it. Not appropriate for young children, but
for those able and willing to look at the reality of life - it is
beautiful!

******
13 January 2004
10

This movie really moved me when I first saw it on TV. A great plotline,
actors with perfect acting skills and the impressive reflection of social
problems and humanity.
The most amazing point is that I can barely find an actress throughout
the
play. Except for Andy's wife, no women have ever appeared on focus.
Despite
this, Shawshank Redemption has become one of the world top movies, while
nowadays too many directors just want beautiful actresses to attracting
the
audience.

******
12 January 2004
10

What can I say, If you are feeling rather downbeat, watch this movie. It
literally lifts the spirit, an emotional roller coaster.What surprises me is, it did not win any Oscar. Well there it proves
awards
are not the end-word on a movie. Five cheers to Morgan Freeman and Tim
Robbins acting. 

******
8 January 2004
10

When i went to see this movie, i expected boring crap, and came out from
the
theaters with glaced eyes and thougt, best film in history. (Im 19) the
movie has it all, GREAT acting, great directing, great(and so on) The one
thing that could pull this movie down is the ending,*Spoiler*>>>they shoud never have joined up again at the very
end,
to audience friendly.9/10[Sorry for any bad english]


******
5 January 2004
10

One of Hollywood's greatest movies!  If you're even the slightest fan of
the
awesome Morgan Freeman, then you'll love him at his best as "Red" .  The
fact
that he didn't win a best supporting Oscar is one of the Academy's biggest
shams!!  Great work by Robbins as well as all of the supporting
cast.

******
4 January 2004
8
This was on sale for £5 so I had to buy it after all the rave reviews
I'd heard from everybody. In hindsight, I only wish I had bought it
sooner. This film is a fascinating tale of a mans journey through
prison life, wonderfully illustrating his relationships with fellow
inmates and staff. Stephen King had his freshest idea which knocks
socks off all his other work including Stand By Me (adaptation from his
novel The Body).Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give flawless performances in the lead
roles and are supported superbly by the rest of the cast including Bob
Gunton, William Sadler, Clancy Brown, Gil Bellows and Mark Rolston.
Ironically for me, Mark Rolston plays one of the worst characters in
history in my opinion (Drake from Aliens) so in his evil role, it had a
great effect on me. The characters are key to this film as they narrate
the story and move the film forward so credit must go to the casting
directors for picking such an effective cast. It is understandable why
Freeman was Oscar nominated for this role as he is near perfect. The
smile he gives at the end if the film is more valuable than a thousand
words.The plot to this is superb; an innocent man seeking freedom, a redeemed
man seeking peace and a hideously corrupt prison are all elements of a
nicely complicated plot which, at the same time, is easy to follow. The
events in the final quarter of the film are so intelligently conceived,
well done and convincing, that the film just falls perfectly in to
place. A masterpiece of a film.Films like this are important because the film industry often ignores
themes of hope in the wake of terror. Shawshank is an inspirational
tale of a man's honesty and bravery against a hideously corrupt and
brutal system. This is why Shawshank Redemption is still talked about
and adored by all who have seen it and why it will always be talked
about. Cool to see an IMDb segments in the DVD featurette!

******
4 January 2004
10

For years this was one of my favorite movies that I found myself watching
over and over again. Then, I went out I bought the DVD when it was
released
and haven't watched it since. They chose just the right actors to play
each
of their roles. Tim Robbins best movie by far and another one to add to
Freeman's resume, not that he needs one. Bob Gunton, who might not be as
well known as he should be, playing a great warden with his usual
personality that fits in perfect with this flick. If there is anyone who
has
NOT seen this film, I recommend at least giving it a chance by renting it.
You are really missing out on something special.

******
2 January 2004
10

I saw this movie a few years ago and thought it was amazing. A couple of
weeks ago I saw the book Different Seasons where the story first appears
and
read it and found to my great suprise that the film is way better then the
story. I´m a big Stephen King fan and have read many books by him and seen
many films based on his work but I have got to say that this is the best
film I have seen based on his work. 

******
30 December 2003
8

Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman give possibly the best performances of
their
careers in this adaptation of a Stephen King story.  The build is slow but
the payoffs are plentiful in this prison drama about friendship and
redemption.  This is also one of those great movies that get better with
each viewing.

******
27 December 2003
10

You must see this film. It´s a homage about friendship, freedom.
Wonderful
cast, great script. Memorable moments. An excellent chemistry between
Morgan
Freeman and Tim Robbins. You will be astonishing, at the end of the
movie.
To see it, enjoying every minute of the story. Enchanted, gorgeous,
emotional.

******
20 December 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption (1994/Frank Darabont)
**** out of ****"I have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged. Their
feathers are just too bright. And when they fly away, the part of you that
knows it was a sin to lock them up DOES rejoice. Still, the place you live
in is that much more drab and empty that they're gone. I guess I just miss
my friend."- Red (Morgan Freeman)This is the ultimate story of friendship. It tells the story of Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins), a young hot-shot banker who is railroaded for a
double murder in 1947. He is then sent to Shawshank Prison, where he soon
befriends Red (Morgan Freeman), a man 'who can get things'. The movie spans
almost 20 years, and shows the growing friendship of these two men. Joining
them is the old pro James Whitmore as Brooks, who does a great job as a man
who "lives in fear". This is the best "feel good" movie of all time, and one of the best of the
90's. It is flawless in a departments. It is based on a short story by
Stephen King, and is masterfully put onto the big screen. Freeman turns in
his best performance, and has many great lines as the stories narrator. In
fact, the film is well written and projects deep meanings of triumph and
hope. Many critics have complained that the film is too long. Whomever truly
believes this can not call themselves a film critic. The film is slowly
paced to show the long growing friendship of Andy and Red. It's pacing is
what makes it so real and excellent.SPOILERS: The ending is the best part of the film, and has probably the best
scene in motion picture history: Andy's Escape. The film's music plays a big
part in this scene, showing Andy's determination and endurance. You end up
rooting for him all the way. Another great scene is when Andy talks to Red
after he gets out of the "hole". Red reveals his weaknesses and fears, but
Andy has hope.This film is a masterpiece of story telling, and should not be missed. Like
I said in the beginning of the review, not only is the film flawless in all
departments, it excels in every way. You will believe in
hope.-30-

******
18 December 2003
10

Forgivness is releasing a prisoner, and realizing that prisoner is you.
This
movie might be the best movie that I have ever seen. You will laugh, you
will cry, you will want to hug somebody. It is so hard to believe that
this
tale came from the horror novelist of our time. Do yourself a favor and
buy
this film. It's a keeper. 

******
15 December 2003
9

I was one of the many movie-goers who saw The Shawshank
Redemption without being aware it was a Stephen King story, and
so had the pleasure of seeing the movie without prior
expectations.The Shawshank Redemption is, without doubt, the finest
conversion from book to film of a Stephen King story. Perhaps
because 'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption' (which
can be found in the Different Seasons book) is short, and thus has
less for the film makers to put on the screen.Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins deliver faultless performances
as a hardened criminal (Freeman) and a man pleading innocence
(Robbins), and the supporting cast of criminals and guards does
a brilliant job of creating a world full of repentent criminals, cruel
wardens, and (without spoiling anything) 'less than friendly'
cons.What makes The Shawshank Redemption such a memorable
movie is that it manages to create characters that the viewer loves,
in a scenario and location where you'd never expect to find them.
These characters, despite their faults, have you hoping for the best
but fearing for the worst for the entirety of the movie. Fans of King
will no doubt be familiar with the way he can create such
characters, but the feat is rarely carried over onto the
screen.I like a movie that can stimulate emotion in me, and The
Shawshank Redemption did that. There are things to laugh at,
scenes to flinch away from (although nothing like American History
X), and most importantly for the film, things that make you want to
cry in a mixture of disbelief and shock.A brilliant movie, and worthy of the Oscar nomination it got and
probably should have won.See if you liked: American History X, The Green Mile, Life is
Beautiful.
Strengths: Brilliant cast, excellent story-telling, King's usual
attention to realism.
Weaknesses: None.
My Rating: 9.5 out of 10

******
14 December 2003
10

I have nothing but praise for THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION.  It is touching,
high-spirited and full of motivation.  Tim Robbins plays a banker who is
wrongly convicted of the murders of his wife and her lover.  He is sentenced
to life in prison and eventually befriends another lifer (played by Morgan
Freeman in a powerful role) who has just been denied parole.  It may sound
like a simple story, but Frank Darabont's direction, along with endearing
performances and a cheerful climax, makes the film so energetic and magical.
 THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is a breath-taking masterpiece.5 out of 5

******
9 December 2003
10

I have just finished watching this movie, and I have no words in how to
describe this movie.  It is absolutely the best movie I have ever seen.  I
have given this movie a 10 because the story is almost life changing, and
differs the views of people about the world.  Everybody should get a
chance
to watch this movie, it is life changing! Ten out of ten should definitely
be the number 1 movie of all time, because it is such a good story, with
such moving acting.

******
6 December 2003
9

In one word: Magnificent! This movie is a masterpiece! It soaks you up and
it leaves you behind feeling hopeful for ways which at first didn't seem to
be there.. a really fantastic movie you definitely should see! Morgan
Freeman, once again, showing how much of a big actor he is! *thumbsup to the
cast & crew*

******
5 December 2003
10

Okay, couldn't Morgan Freeman have at least TIED with Tom Hanks for that
Best Actor Oscar?  This film works on so many levels.  Freedom,  innocence,
aging, prejudice, masculinity.  My only "but" is this:  Having seen the
television show 'OZ,' it seems that in prison the lines of good and bad,
friend or foe, are very blurred.  In this movie, they seem a little too
cut-and-dry.  Other than that, I can't think of a single other critique, nor
can I come up with any other words to do it justice.  If I had to pick from
either this film or "The Godfather" only, it'd be this, hands
down!

******
5 December 2003
10
Once again, a DVD purchase gives me an excuse to write about a film I
first saw years ago - and, by happy chance, it's a truly magnificent
piece of work.Stephen King's work, itself uneven in quality, also has a spotty
history when transferred to the screen, whether in the form of a movie
or a TV drama. Neither version of "The Shining" was very good, while
"The Stand" was converted into a TV drama that flowed better than the
novel itself, but was unable wholly to overcome or conceal that book's
very real flaws.This film is based on King's short story "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank
Redemption" - a good story that makes a superb film. It DOES drag
somewhat in places, but what else can you expect in a film describing
events that stretch over decades, but are confined to a very small
physical space? For the rest, the acting is flawless, the music is
subtle and appropriate, while the photography and script are both
excellent. I particularly liked the characterization and portrayal of
relationships - not just the Robbins-Freeman interaction, but also the
other characters, even the minor ones, who cross our field of vision as
the film progresses.There are a number of enjoyable high points and thought-provoking low
points along the way - not too many, that would destroy the film's main
impact - and the conclusion rates as one of the most gratifying I've
ever seen in a movie. In short, unless you demand lots of action of the explosions and chases
type, you're going to be enthralled by this one.Rating: 10/10 - the only film I've seen so far to deserve this rating.

******
3 December 2003
9

does it come off as a great movie? Perhaps, but I still think that other
than the fact that this movie's premise was a ripoff of ESCAPE FROM ALCATRAZ
(made in 1979..a full 14 years before Shawshank).. I guess it's still not
bad. It is an  interesting story, albeit not entirely true, or false. Yes,
there was a prisoner who dug his way out of an alleged impenetrable prison.
Yes, there was the usual bad warden who could make your life miserable and
did when you did not tow the line. What  Stephen King did was change the
timeline(1950's) and the digging. You never see Tim Robbins character
digging! You get an  idea he might try it but upon first viewing the movie,
you really have no clue except the feeling he is up to something!  He  is
just to smart not to have a plan. Afterall,  he is the prison accountant and
personal investment broker! So in the end, the  audience was just as
surprized as the warden at the discovery of his amazing escape!In "Escape from Alcatraz" we see the digging and the entire plan unfold..so
what is left for us to enjoy is the satisfaction of  seeing that jerk of a
warden get what's coming when the prisoners break out of the Rock! Stephen
King created a great piece  of work and the director made it work as great
cinema. So it doesn't come off entirely as a remake of a similar type of
prison  break movie but a character study of 2 men who desperately want out
and some who don't. But I thought you all ought to  know where the original
story of digging thru a prison wall came from. To me the twist was Tim had to swim thru 500 yards of crap and Clint
Eastwood had to swim across a freezing San Francisco bay! Whereas Shawshanks
characters end up free, happy and in paradise, we never will know if the
Alcatraz prisoners survived  the swim across the freezing SF bay..it's still


******
2 December 2003
10

I have seen many films in my 38 years of living but none has moved me
more
than this film. This is my all-time favorite film. The scene where I
always
emotionally break down is at the very end of the film when Red says "I
hope
the pacific is as blue as it has been in my dreams." The ending of this
film
is as good as any film ever. After all Andy and Red had been through,
they
get what they deserve, (as every person in the film does) a good life.
The
moral of the film is "Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and
no
good thing ever dies. I suggest everyone who reads this comment go and
vote
for this film as #1 in the "Top 250" (It's already #2, but it deserves to
be
#1).

******
30 November 2003
10

When it comes to what really matters. This movies got it all. The cast of
the two main characters is perfect. The whole cast makes a hell of a job.
The music the story.
This is my all time favorite movie.

******
30 November 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of the greatest movies of all time.  It
doesn't have high budget effects, dramatic car chases or elaborate plots.
However it is a fantastic story of the inmates at Shawshank Prison, more
specifically Andy Dufrasne (Tim Robbins) and 'Red' (Morgan Freeman).  The
reason I believe this film is the greatest is down to its ability to
deliver
a brilliant story at a realistic level, with developing friendships,
loveable characters and despicable villians.The tag line for this movie states that "Fear can hold you prisoner, hope
can set you free" and that is what this film is all about, hope.  The
belief
that if you have a dream, hope can help you realise it, no matter how
bleak
the situation may seem.  Everytime I watch this movie, I become immersed
by
it to a point where it seems that I am there with the main characters at
each and every step.  I watch the credits roll knowing that I have been
touched by something beautiful, knowing that I have been told a tale that
inspires any hopes and dreams of my own.  The Shawshank Redemption is
without a doubt the greatest movie of all time.

******
27 November 2003
10

No movie can beat this movie. The actors in this movie are so good, that
when you start this movie, you can't stop! I've seen many, many movies, but
this one is just the best. Tim Robins is in this movie just great. I think
that if you've seen this movie, you would agree with me.

******
4 October 2003
10

The famous British movie reviewer Barry Norman said "Your favourite film
must be one that you can watch whatever mood you are in." This is simply
the
case with this movie. Whenever I am down, up, crying, laughing or whatever
I
can watch this film and feel even better. Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne
to
perfection. A film with so many twists where you think "That's it, he's
gonna kill himself" but it carries on and you see all the characters
develop, even Morgan Freeman who plays the emotion-less 'Red'
(brilliantly,
I might add) at the beginning who doesn't give a hoot about anybody other
than getting the other inmates what they want turns out to be a person who
accepts that there may be hope. A film which is great throughout and has a
fabulous ending.

******
3 October 2003
10

A Simple $ Appealing Story with a Beginning, Middle & End.And yet, so Rewarding to so many !Why ? Because it simply connects with more viewers than any other film
!What more can anyone ask for ?Please see it & give it the vote it deserves ! (ie. 10).


******
29 September 2003
10

Simply put, ShawShank is the best movie ever...bar NONE.  A very good
story,
excellent directing and production and a stellar cast.  Was robbed by the
Academy when they gave best picture to Forrest Gump.  A great movie for
the
family (13 and over) and surely a movie you will watch again and
again.

******
28 September 2003
10

For years I had been hearing great things about this film. Then I saw it
for
myself and can say it was a waste of time.It is a prison inmates dream
come
true and thats it.Avoid for your own sake.Godfather.good.Shawshank
Redemption.very very bad.

******
26 September 2003
10

This movie can be summed up into just that word, WOW.  I mean out of all
the
movies i have seen in my life this one i have loved from the first time i
watched it to the last time watched it.  Everytime this movie is just as
exciting and interesting as the time before.  It has a great cast and
story
and truly captures the fight of oppression and the challenges of the
Human
Spirit.  Very inspirational and a timeless classic.

******
17 September 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption is a great and dramatic movie. It's acting, plot,
and screenplay are extraordinary. The directing is very well done. This
movie is one of the best pictures to come out of the Hollywood for a long
time.It mainly is about a man named Andy who goes to Shawshank for the murder of
his wife. While he is there is meets this man named Red, who later becomes
his best friend. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freedman were the perfect actors for
their parts. They act very realistic.While I read the short story by Stephen King which this movie is based on
and I realized they got most of the stuff that was in the book on to the
screen. This two hours that are spent very wisely. I suggest this movie to
anyone is ready to watch a great film with a great ending.Rated R
What I think it should be rated and why: R for some violence and
language.***** out of 5

******
12 September 2003
10

This movie is brilliant. Fantastic screenplay, very nice music, and best
of
all; Morgan Freeman. One of the worlds best actors ever.This movie should really be in every DVD collection all over the world.
It's
really that good. I'm a big fan of "prison" and "war" movies though, but
anyways, this movie is absolutely brilliant, and I think most people would
find it very good.10\10

******
1 September 2003
10

This movie is the only one that make me hang over the edge of my
sit!!!
The history, the actors, the scenes were just  perfect!!!!I HIGHLY RECOMMEND IT

******
25 August 2003
10

Every single frame of The Shawshank Redemption is designed with extreme
care. I think it is the best movie of all times. Such a movie can be
produced once in every century. This movie should be watched once in
every
month. Although I watched it many times, when I re-watch it, i still get
the
pleasure that i got at the first time. It makes me grab the life more
strongly. If you are a desperate about any subject, watch this movie. For
sure, it will change your view of the life...

******
24 August 2003
10

This is by far my favourite movie, though sometimes it's hard to explain
exactly why.  It could be the amazing work which each and every actor
did,
or the wonderful script and direction from Mr. Darabont, but whatever it
was, it changed me.  Honestly, I am not kidding.  I never watched movies
the
same after seeing this film, everything had to now be compared to
Shawshank.
Not since Star Wars has there been a film which has had such a huge
impact
on how I watch and comprehend fiction, including film, TV, and
books.

******
24 August 2003
10

If you have never seen this film, you must be a criminal in spirit.I don't claim to be a free man, but I am sure of that I am greatly
inspired
and excited when Andy escapes from Shawshank, and I feel like a criminal
who
eventually sees the sunlight from the blue sky and smells the fragrance
of
freedom on a grassland. Yes, at that moment I am free.

******
16 August 2003
10

I didnt need IMDB or anything else to tell me if Shawshank is a good or bad
movie.  This is one of those movies you will never forget and i have watched
it five or six times and everytime the film gets to me, and thats why i
consider this a masterpeice.  You cant get better acting then
this..

******
20 July 2003
10

This movie does one thing, but it does this in excellent way. All actors
in
the movie are awesome. The movie easily stands by itself as the best movie
of all time. Many will disagree with this because they have an internal
defend against new age movies abd they preffer to consider favorites the
old
ones of 60's and 70's. This movie is simply the best out there because it
has absolutely no disadvantage.Stephen King's Movies will either be the "worst of all time" or the "best
of
all time" as happens with his books. This is the case of this movie. Best
of
all time whatever they say.

******
16 July 2003
9

This movie is absolutely great!!! It would be impossible for me to tell
how
many times I've seen this film...
To anybody who hasn't seen this incredibly movie, i can only say: "what in
the world are you waiting for, step away from your screen and go buy/rent
this film immediately"... Anyway, it definitely deserves to be #2 on the
list...

******
13 July 2003
10

This movie was actually filmed partly in my hometown.  Plus, my dad's in
it.
So, I'm a little partial to it.  But, I have NEVER talked to someone who
hasn't absolutely loved this movie.  It's definitely a must
see!

******
13 July 2003
10

The story will always touch my heart. The courage, the endurance, the
friendship, the goal make the best chemestry. Hail Mr. Freeman as
Red!
Hail Mr. Robbins as Andy! Mr Darabont makes the best adaptation ever from
Mr. Stephen King's novels. 

******
9 July 2003
10

My personal opinion is that the Shawshank Redemption is the greatest film
ever made. However I fully appreciate the fact that this is not everybodys
opinion. My knowledge of the film industry while not conclusive, is
considerably extensive, and in my short time on earth I would like to
believe that I have seen enough movies and learned enough about them to
warrant comment on this particular gem. From the opening sequence to the
memorable finale, this is filmaking at its finest hour. Yes, the overall
message may be simple, but the study of human nature throughout the film
relays the complexities and frailties of the human race. I dont think
there
is one fault in this film and I have watched it many times now. I have
seen
many film opinion polls at this stage and I cannot remember shawshank
being
outside the top five in any of them. So we all cant be wrong. What it all
boils down to is whether or not a film can move you, or leave a profound
effect on you. Films like Shawshank, Seven, Braveheart, American History X
and Jaws had a hugh effect on me, these films to me are what makes movies
magical. For someone else it might be pulp fiction, the godfather or its a
wonderful life. The magic of the movies is the effect that a particular
film
has on the particular person. I think the shawshank redemption had a
profound effect on so many people, because we can identify so well with
the
point its trying to put across (Hope is a good thing, even when all seems
lost) and that true friendship can get us out of the worst of times. Films
will always have their critics, thats the nature of the business, but I
was
always told they dont make them like they used to, this film is proof that
they still can. P.S. Stephen King is a genius.

******
7 July 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption is one of the best movies I have ever seen. This is
a true Stephen King film. Darabont's effort in the screenplay was
astonishing. I love this film. The whole story has twists and turns and
surprises in every corner. The best prison movie, most definitely. Robbins
delivered a powerful performance. He should have won an Oscar for this film.
I loved it and I hoped, I'm sure, that everyone else loved it. I give this
film a solid, gold TEN. Highly recommended for those who have taste in
movies. If you have any comments for me, please e-mail me at
tylerripen@yahoo.com.

******
7 July 2003
9

This is wonderful filmmaking filled with gut-wrenching emotion and drama.
I
do not agree that this is the 2nd greatest movie of all time.  Perhaps it
belongs in the top 50.  This film as well as Director Frank Darabont's
follow-up The Green Mile are based on Stephen King short stories and I
honestly cannot say that one is better than the other.  Masterful
direction,
acting, and storytelling.  I am very, very particular about the films that
I
give a perfect score.  I go for more thought-provoking plots rather than
well-told melodramas like Titanic.  This is certainly an excellent film
with
its triumph of the human spirit theme and I believe that it is worthy of a
9.  Excellent film experience.  ****1/2 / *****

******
7 May 2003
10

Their are two great things in this world muhammed ali and the shawshank
redemption.It is without doubt the best film ever made.A bold statement
you
say well watch it and then tell me it isnt.Why is it the greatest well
thats
hard to put a finger on.For one thing the acting superb robbins and
freeman
give standout performances.The sweeping score and look add to that.Stir in
a
brillant uplifting story evil villians and a great twist and shawsank can
bellow out i am the greatest.

******
3 May 2003
10

   Most viewers do not want to go to overly "artsy" movies because usually
they try too hard to be intellectually stimulating but fail miserably
because it is a difficult feat to pull off.  Movies like American Beauty and
Amélie are few and far between.  And then there's The Shawshank Redemption:
simple, honest, without pretense.  It appeals to the viewers heart and soul
and not his/her head.  No one cares if the prison conditions are 100 percent
believable.  It's fiction for a reason!  I never even noticed the clichés
until I read a detailed post describing them, and frankly, I'm content to
ignore them.  The spinner bait that hooked me on this movie was the
relationship between Andy and Red.  Watching this movie for the first time
(and dozens of times since) I found these two characters to be two of the
most likeable characters I could think of. 
   The climax of this movie is in my top five of all time (TSR, Memento,
Usual Suspects, Se7en, The Manchurian Candidate).  In general, people like
happy endings.  I am a big fan of tragedies like The Deer Hunter and
Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, but I cannot watch them continually with the
same emotion.  Watching Shawshank for the Xth time, I experience the same
emotional roller coaster as the first time viewed it.
   People dislike the fact that so many people give this movie a 10/10
rating.  I feel quite comfortable giving this movie that rating because it
is my favorite movie.  It is not a perfect movie, but the rating system
doesn't go by technical merit.  People should rate films based on their
opinion as a whole and not solely upon how well the director uses cinematic
techniques.  Personally, I couldn't care less  

******
30 April 2003
10
There are movies made for money, and yet there are movies that are made
for the sake of propagating the Art of Cinema. These are movies which
appear like Comets once in a Cinema lifetime, instead of doom and
gloom; they uplift our sullen mood. I have never been a fan of Fiction
since there is enough drama in real life.However I am an ardent fan of
narrated Movies, which takes me to Scorsese and his catalog of
Celluloid Classics.There was some great narrative styles in "Good
Fellas" and "Casino", but Morgan Freeman takes narration to a newlevel.
His Barry White tinged voice is one of the glues that hold this tale of
a convict who has more convictions in his soul than the alleged
convictions. Morgan Freeman is the finest actor in his genre. Tim
Robbins as "Andy" is one of the best performances by an actor, that I
have seen lately. some of the common threads to a good movie that I
have noticed is the Scriptwriter who also wields the megaphone, since
this gives a edge over a director who is trying to put a face on the
story. Frank Darabont has done a splendid job so much so we feel that
these two Characters are alive and working on their boat in sunny
Mexico. The dual talent of writing and directing is evident in the
success of great Directors like Coppola, (God Father, with Mario Puzo)
Scorsese.(Good Fellas, with Nicholas Pillegi). God bless these kindred
since they have made some great movies and Shashank Redemtion is one of
them.

******
24 April 2003
10

'The Shawshank Redemption' is based heavily upon Stephen King's short story
'Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption' - adapted for screen by
Writer/Director Frank Darabont (screenwriter for 'The Fly II' and 'Indiana
Jones 4.') Since this film has graced the silver screen, Darabont has also
adapted King's 'The Green Mile' and 'The Majestic' with great success. This
has truly sparked off a trend of King adaptations such as 'Night Flier,'
'Hearts in Atlantis' and 'Dream Catcher.' In this film an innocent man is
wrongly accused of the murder of his wife and her lover, and imprisoned in
'Shawshank Prison' for two life-terms. Within the prison walls (some
stronger than others) the enigma unravels as 'Andy Dufresne' (Tim Robbins -
'Arlington Road') meets extraordinary people with the gift of 'seeing hope
through the bars,' such as 'Red' (Morgan Freeman - 'Dreamcatcher') who tells
Andy to "Get bust living - or get busy dying." Under the harsh conditions in
which Andy's love for reading, music and friendship are exploited
(sentencing him to the light-devoid 'hole') he uses all his skill and logic
to conduct a plan unlike any other - escape and exploit 'Warden Norton' (Bob
Gunton - 'Patch Adams') and start living again.This film is successful due to the simplistic (yet ideal) cinematography,
the splendid acting, the real emotion and the fact that Darabont employs
many of the same cast his other films ('The Green Mile' and 'The Majestic')
- generating a wonderful, intimate atmosphere between the cast. This film
seems like a much-loved, family project - rather than a faceless Hollywood
production...


******
21 April 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption is the best movie ever made.  I first saw this
movie last summer and really didn't know what to expect, given all the
stupid early 90s movies that are out there. But once about 10 minutes in a
realized that this was going to be a great movie, and it was. It, in my
opinion, portrayed what it really would be like to live in jail and, for me,
how unfair the justice system can be given andy was obviously innocent. They
way he escaped was pretty cool too. So, if you have not seen this movie as
of now go out and rent it. It is definitly worth it. ***** outta
*****

******
19 February 2003
10

I don't know why it took me so long to see this film but I finally did. I've
seen a lotta films in my day, but I think this is definitely one of the top
10. Indeed, it's rated by the viewers as the #2 film of all-time on this
database, just behind The Godfather. This film is a powerful story of hope
and despair, love and hate, institutionalization and corruption. There's not
much violence in it, although there is strong (homo)sexual content. This
story takes place almost entirely in a maximum-security prison. The story
would be powerful even with no "brand-name" actors in it, but Morgan Freeman
and Tim Robbins both do a magnificent job in this film. This is a film that
should not be missed!

******
28 November 2002
8

Contains minor spoilers"The Shawshank Redemption" has a lot going for it. The cast and acting are
absolutely top-class, the main characters (Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman) are
very likeable and the "bad guys" (warden + guards) are really
evil.In terms of story, I found this movie to be good, but not that special. It
has some truly touching and emotional scenes, some good jokes and the twist
at the end is surprising and satisfying. Also, you've GOT to admire the
persistence and positive attitude of Tim Robbins' character: NOTHING gets
him down, no matter what things happen to him, he always keeps believing in
himself and fighting back in his own way. But overall, there also were some pretty dull scenes and prison movies
cliches in this movie..things like the rapists or the old man with the bird,
and the whole new guy/old wise mentor thing have been before. Also, the pace
is a bit slow at times.All in all, this movie certainly was entertaining and refreshing, and it
left me with a good feeling, but honestly, I didn't find it THAT special. At
least not special enough to warrant a #2 position in the top 100. Oh well,
it's all a matter of taste I suppose.***1/2 out of **** stars

******
7 October 2002
10

As movie legend goes, this one is a no brainer. Ignored during its film run
but transformed into a home video phenomenon. And the rest, is
history.Nobody, not less myself can explain the appeal of this film. Its long, its
dreary and its set in a prison for chrissake? But looking at the list of
wannabes who tried unsuccessfully in replicating its magic, from the Green
Mile to the Road to Perdition, its not hard to marvel at the mysterious ways
in which Shawshank get us hooked. None came close and none may
ever.Divine Touch is about the only reason I can come up with to explain this
serendipitious movie. I dare say not even Mr Frank Darabont himself can
repeat his own feat. Anyway, Shawshank Redemption has seared into the collective consciousness of
our generation. Let's not psycho-analyse to death its formula and just be
glad there is at least one of them that works, this one.Gilda Rocks!Bye bye.

******
7 October 2002
10

This is quite simply,the best film ever made.
Taken from a short story by Stephen King,it turns out to be a true
cinematic
masterpiece.
It takes you through just about every single emotion
possible,happiness,sadness,elation,fear
and jubilation at the end.
The more you see this movie,the more you appreciate just how amazing it
is.
Each time you watch it you pick out something extra that you hadn't
noticed
before,and that only adds to your appreciation of it.
Tim Robbins' character is one you sympathize with right from the word
go,you're rooting for him all the way through the movie,when he has his
run-ins with Boggs and his cronies,to when you see him on the beach and he
sees Red walking towards him.
I know nothing about lighting,editing,or abstract plot
development.
But I know an awesome movie when I see one,and this is most definitely one
of those.
See it,be amazed,then see it again and be even more awestruck by its
magnificence

******
7 October 2002
10

This movie is brilliant, if you haven´t seen it, don´t read or try and
find
out things on this movie, just rent it and find out for yourself... It´s
the
most uplifting movie about human spirit overcoming adversities i have ever
seen

******
1 October 2002
10

The Shawshank Redemption was one of the deepest movies I've ever seen. There
were no fight scenes, car chases, anything like that, but my attention was
there. I don't know too many movies that can do that.Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins were awesome in this movie. Tim Robbins'
character evolves in this movie. He begins as this innocent (literally) guy
who kept to himself, and then he became more sociable and demanding. As for
Freeman, the movie would not be the same without him. The warden. I really hated that guy. The only antagonist I hated more than
this warden was the bad guy from the Patriot. What I liked most about this movie is that they portray life within a jail
cell. They show that the people who are imprisoned are not all bad, and some
shouldn't even be there. We all forget that some of those people are in
there for murder, and we even feel sympathy for them.I would recommend this movie to people who liked the Green Mile. Not only is
it another jail movie, it was written by the same author, and yes, I do
believe Stephen King is the best modern writer of all. If you have not seen
this movie, you are missing out on the movie that redeemed the film
industry. Remember, salvation lies within.

******
1 October 2002
10

This film in my opinion is one of the best ever made. When I went to the
video store one time in 1999, I was in the mood for a drama. It was a
toss-up between Shawshank and some other movie. I chose Shawshank. The
plot
outline on the back of the movie box was very intriguing. It is most
definetly the best movie I have ever picked out at a video store. I liked
the movie so much that I went and bought it the next day. Few movies have
as
much talent and drive as this one. Two of the best actors in my opinion,
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. What an excellent acting duo. It's a shame
that this movie lost Best Picture to 'Forest Gump'. Gump was good, but
this
one was much better. I gave it a 10. What a great movie!

******
28 September 2002
10

First, I would like to say I did not see this film when it originally came
out in the movies. The trailers and the fact it was a "prison" film never
interested me. My manager recommended it about three years ago to me when I
was looking for films to rent on a cold snowy weekend. Because it did have
Morgan Freeman in it, I made a  mental note and said to myself, "If its
available I may give it a go". All my manager would tell me was it was
"long, drawn out and tedious" but that I should hang with it cause it would
be "well worth the wait". Now he's a decent manager but our lifestyles are
so different outside of work, I was like "yeah right. He would recommend
something that I would like." But it was available and I rented it. I held
on to it for seven days, about to just take it back since it was due without
watching it but hey--I hated to feel like I wasted money. I watched it and I did not waste my money.This has become to me one of the best films I have ever seen(so far) in my
life. It was long but I got into it slowly, methodically and so
captivatingly, the time drifted slowly. Sucking me in, I could hardly know
what to expect. And what I expected didn't happen and I just was transfixed.
Tim Robbins to me was brilliant. He painstakingly went through those years,
aging and moving forward through all the disappointments, growth and
experiences as if he were in a long chess game. I became so caught up I
could not even begin to think about how this would turn out all the stories
and events.And when the end came, I was just blown away by it. I truly loved all
performances and so many "character actors" now are faces and names I know
and they all performed well and are remembered in my head when I see
them--for this movie. I find myself recommending it now to people and I too ask them to "hang
with it. its well worth the wait".

******
15 August 2002
10

Andy Dufrense (Tim Robbins) is found guilty of murdering his wife, and
sentenced to Shawshank for life. He's innocent, but unable to clear his
name. So off he goes, to one of the most horrible prisons in the country. At
first the other inmates don't show him any respect, as they think he's just
a snob. But he manages to get one friend, Red (Morgan Freeman), who he
become very close to. During his time in prison he finds different ways of
spending his time, such as building a library, helping the guards with their
tax reports and putting up posters of pretty girls on his cell
wall...Tim Robbins preformance in this movie was the best I've ever seen. I saw
this movie for the first time when I was 13, and at the time I had no clue
of who he was or when this movie was made, but after seeing it I decided to
become an actress. Later I found out he was Tim Robbins and that the movie
weren't made in the 60's (as I thought...). I guess that was when my
admiration for Tim Robbins began. Today I have seen alot more of his work
and still believe he's my hero as much as I did that day when I first saw
"The Shawshank Redemption".All the other actors were also really great, and the script is amazing. The
scenes are amazing. Everything about this movie is amazing. You can see it
over and over again, and still be amazed everytime. This is one of those
movies you have to see at least once a year. Just to experience how truly
amazing it is.


******
13 August 2002
8

Having read Stephen King's short story when it was first published I never
would have predicted it would be made into a movie.  The movie adaptation
is
also alot more interesting than the original story, mainly because the
characters are better developed and the story is livlier.  This is one of
the few movies that surpasses the book.  The weakest point of this movie
is
the rather one-sided view of the penal system, even in the dated version
of
this story.

******
6 August 2002
7

I find it very interesting that this movie has ranked so high in this
database.  One professional reviewer elsewhere had referred to it as an
"overrated cult film," and I can see why.  It is one of those movies that
is
so unique that it just grabs hold of some people while doing very poorly
with the general public at the box office.   But to be ranked as one of
the
best movies of all time?  I honestly don't see why.Personally, I thought the Stephen King story it was based on was much
better.  True to his style, it was a very surrealistic tale about
something
that couldn't possibly happen in real life.  SPOILER AHEAD!  Come on, it
is
sheer fantasy to think that someone can dig himself out of prison with a
rock pick over the course of many years without someone catching on to
what
he is doing.  I think that's why the movie is so popular:  it's a
feel-good
fantasy that pretends to be a prison drama.But it is very entertaining, and keeps you wondering if Andy really did
kill
his wife.  The ending is too predictable, though.Overall it is a very well-acted and directed movie.  However, the
objectionable language and the homosexual rape scenes were totally
unnecessary to the plot.  It would have been MUCH better if those aspects
of
Stephen King's fertile imagination had been left out of the movie.  If not
for those parts, I would heartily recommend anyone to see it.


******
11 July 2002
10

This movie takes you like a storm, starting of easy, but as the movie
moves
along you get pulled back in your seat just enjoying the fine acting, and
story..Morgan Freeman, and Tim Robbins does some of the best acting i've ever
seen...THIS IS A MUST SEE!!

******
17 June 2002
9

Just a comment about something that I didn't see anyone else mention
recently. (I didn't read all nine billion comments on this movie) I thought
that the character "Red" was a white man in King's story. Now, there's
nothing wrong with casting Morgan Freeman in that part, and he was great in
it. (He was cast as President of the United States in "Deep Impact" and
carried that off very well. I thought it was kind of neat to cast a black
actor as President and make absolutely no reference to his race throughout
the movie. Would that we could be that way in reality.) But TSR was set in a
particular time, (1947-1968) and I find it hard to believe that there was
utterly no racism in a Maine prison in those days. Sort of undercuts the
realism that seemed to be done so well in every other aspect of the movie.
Just a minor quibble. Everything else I have to say about TSR has already
been said. Grade: A+

******
2 May 2002
10

By Jack the Ripper:Not very many movies can give people that feeling that makes them feel all
warm and fuzzy inside. THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is one such movie. It is
hard to believe that there are people here who did not like this film. I
didn't really like it the first time I saw it, after I saw it a couple more
times, I realized how good of a movie it was. Every person alive should see
this movie. It tells you how you must never give up hope and should always
keep on trying. If you haven't yet seen this movie, see it today. It is one of the great
American movies ever made. From the interesting beginning, to the extremely
satisfying ending, you are sure to be one of the people taken in by the
fuzzy feeling, too. And after you are done seeing this movie, see another
great one, THE GREEN MILE. If you don't like this movie after you've seen it
the first time, see it again, you're sure to get suckered into liking
it.....5/5.

******
10 April 2002
10

I never fail to be captivated by this film when I watch
it.This,indeed,
is no run of the mill prison flick.It is really not a prison movie
at
all.True,it takes place in a prison,but it is really a story
about
what lies beyond the prison walls;freedom itself.Some within the
prison
walls crave it,desire it.Others fear it,simply because prison has
become
their home,and freedom would remove them from their comfort
zone.This
is a sad reality made all too clear,here.This is also a story of
hope
and tenacity.You find yourself looking at the film's main
character,
Andy Dufresne (played brilliantly by Tim Robbins),and you find
yourself
wanting to have as much smarts,and tenacity as he does.You also
find
yourself looking at Andy's close friend,Ellis "Red" Redding
(played
with flawless perfection,as always,by Morgan Freeman),and wanting
to
go back and correct all the stupid things you did when you were
young.
You look at Brooks (James Whitmore) and you are saddened to realize
that
having been imprisoned so long,that he is doomed,never to fit
in,in
this ever rapidly changing world.Being released,in fact,becomes a
worse
hell than being incarcerated in the first place.There are many individual
characters to look at from different angles,and this is
what
makes Shawshank a great film.Don't miss it.

******
9 January 2002
6

I can't help but feel emotional every time I see this film. Both Robbins and
Freeman are excellent, and the supporting cast is good enough not to screw
anything up, but they aren't spectacular. One of the few complaints I have about the film is that it does get slow at
times, and I find myself becoming a little bored. Another complaint I have
is I wish the makers of Shawshank would give credit where credit is due for
the amazing amount of scenes and ideas taken from Escape From Alcatraz,
starring Clint Eastwood. How can so many critics claim that Instinct is
derivative while none of them mention the fact that Shawshank Redemption is
one of the most derivative movies of all time? Shawshank is significantly
better than Alcatraz, and it does have important emotional elements that
Alcatraz is void of; but a theft is a theft, and that won't change unless
the makers of Shawshank start giving credit to Alcatraz. Here are some of
the things stolen: The digging tool being kept in a carved out bible and the somewhat funny
irony that that entails. The rapist encountering the star in the showers near the beginning of the
film to set up further encounters. An inmate at mealtime asking the star whether he will be eating something
and then pulling out a small animal. I'm sure most Shawshank lovers thought
that the whole bird thing was a completely original symbolic idea. Sorry,
but even though the symbolism is well taken, it was FAR from original. The
whole idea probably started with the mealtime animal scene, as it was
obviously a direct steal. The digging debris being emptied out of the star's pants during strolls.The star befriending the black guy who can get you anything. True, Red is a
much more important character, but this is definitely part of the
theft.There are several others that I have forgotten. And if Instinct had any
cliché's, Shawshank certainly did, with the evil warden, the evil guard, the
religion, the "highly intelligent" star, and the concentration on the
"hole", where the star is always sent to burn for a while.Despite all of this, I really do like Shawshank Redemption and will probably
watch it many times in the future, but it absolutely amazes me that I have
not seen or heard one single critic mention the robbery here. And as people
became critic-following sheep with Instinct, they certainly did with
Shawshank. Jeremy Barger

******
12 December 2001
7

I enjoyed "The Shawshank Redemption," but it is not a movie in its own
league, as so many seem to say.  Starting off, it is almost a sure thing
that no prison movie could ever be in that category for me.  The closest
would be "Papillon", which is clearly better than this, and other movies are
better at capturing general mistreatments of prisoners even as they focus on
certain main characters.  Here, altho there were other instances of abuse,
the emphasis is on the main character in his role in the story, not the
society of prison inmates.  Not that I am a particular lover of the total
depressing side, but to communicate negative qualities of a prison, the bad
stuff needs to be presented more--the violence more graphic, the negative
conditions more thoughtfully.  I know people cite the story as well, but I
think if this movie is to be on such a high pedestal there should be
something more special about the portrayal of life in prison, and there
isn't.I thought the acting performances of Tim Robbins (who plays chief character
Andrew Dufresne) and Morgan Freeman were, similarly, quite good but not
great, and although I was into the story, it just did not bring tears to my
eyes.  I don't think the "twists" were all that unique--I guess I've been
jaded by the modern (80s onward) murder dramas.  Nevertheless, the storyline
was good, the warden nice and despicable, and there were interesting ideas
re Dufresne's functions in prison.  The ending was also well done, and I
acknowledge, somewhat moving.  Certainly recommended.

******
27 November 2001
10

Imagine yourself in 1940's Maine, accused of a despicable crime of revenge
on your wife and the man you recently found out was her lover, sent to a
corrupted prison with a two-faced warden, where inmates are murdered for
knowing information that would help an innocent man off the hook, or for
crying on their first night of imprisonment. Where popularity with the
guards gets you special privileges and crossing the warden while just
trying
to get the freedom you deserve gets you thrown into 'the hole' for a
month.
The only light of hope is the special friendship with a fellow inmate by
the
name of 'Red' and a rock-hammer hidden inside a Bible. "Salvation lies
within." You can take my word for it, one thing that does lie within this
movie is an incredible story of hope that will bring you to the point of
tears at some points and enrage you at others. The acting is brilliant,
the
screenplay is superb. This drama places a new sense of hope in you that
you
would never have felt before. "The Shawshank Redemption" is absolutely the
movie of choice for anyone who appreciates excellency in
film-making.


******
20 November 2001
10

This movie just rocks, I really don't get it that some people think that
movie is just for entertainment.This movie is a lot more than entertainment, it has a deeper meaning that
you got to see. It contains a lot of stuff to think about.
- Innocent but decides to live with it
- The dead of Brooks Hatlen
- The decision of Red to follow Dufresne to MexicoThis movie has got 2 of the finest actors (Tim Robbins & Morgan Freeman)
in
their line-up who play their bests parts untill now (that is what i
believe).This movie is just a must see

******
18 November 2001
10

It was given by a friend as a marriage gift, I loved this movie right
away.
everything is soo perfect, the music, the narration, the end. When I feel
down here is the dvd.... and I am perfectly in a good mood. I really thank
my friend for giving me this movie. 

******
26 July 2001
9

I won't go into all the good things about the movie, since pretty much all
of the other posts do, I'll just say I agree.  There was only one thing
wrong with it.  Are we supposed to believe that in a prison in 1948, a
black
guy was best buds with a bunch of white guys?  Oh well, this was made when
it wasn't politically correct to have a movie with an all white cast.  If
you can get past that one flaw, this movie is a 10.  If you can't, the
movie
is still an 8 or 9.If you're depressed, this is an excellent movie to watch.  It focuses on
when life has really beaten you down.  No matter what happens to him, he
tries to get the best of the situation.

******
3 June 2001
10

I'm sure we all agree, the Shawshank Redemption is the best movie ever
made-
The Best Picture of all time. A must see movie that is simply amazing.
The
story and acting will dazzle you. A movie at the end that will make you
rewind it and watch again. An absolutely incredible film!!!

******
24 May 2001
9

I've never been in the military, I've never been in prison.  I read books
and watch movies.  When I meet people who know the inside of either
institution, I ask them, "Is such-and-such a movie accurate?"Whether "Shawshank" is accurate or not, I cannot find out!  My friends who
know prisons don't watch movies!  But "Shawshank" is cinema storytelling at
its finest.  If you love a good story, and can handle some of the rougher
things in life, this is your movie.The choice of Morgan Freeman for the narrator, Red, was inspired.  But I'm
beginning to wonder if casting Morgan Freeman is ever less than inspired at
any time, for any part.  His warm voice and gentle accent is impossible not
to listen to.  I think that voice could keep your attention reading the
dictionary aloud.  His face is always interesting.  If Morgan Freeman is in
a movie, I'm willing to give the movie a chance.This is the second Tim Robbins movie I ever saw.  And this is quite a
departure from his "Nuke" LaLouche in "Bull Durham".  His performance is
intelligent, understated, intense.  He is a great movie actor--he doesn't
need to speak to communicate volumes.But the real star of "Shawshank" is Stephen King.  He has become the premier
storyteller of our day.  He puts words together to make magic like no one
I've ever read.  And his stories translate so well to the screen.  "Stand By
Me" proved it.   "Shawshank" confirms it.  All hail, Stephen
King!If you haven't seen "The Shawshank Redemption", do so.  Maybe, like me,
you'll be looking to buy the video for your small collection of movies to be
seen over and over again.

******
12 December 2000
10

Friendship.  In a word, this movie is all about friendship.  Great casting
makes the characters believable.  Extraordinary acting makes them come to
life.  The bond developed between Andy (Tim Robbins) & Red (Morgan Freeman)
is so real that you feel it.  If you're not a sensitive male going in, you
will be one coming out.  Go BUY this movie.  It'll make you laugh, cry,
and -- most of all -- hope.  The supporting cast is almost as good as Andy &
Red.  The warden is diabolically evil.  And his #1 minion (Clancy Brown)
turns in a first-rate performance.  Much attention was paid to the sets. Not
much left to say except . . . what a movie!!!  There is no comparable film
work out there.  I "hope" someday there will be.  'Til then, The Shawshank
Redemption is the best-in-show.

******
6 December 2000
10

How can anybody dislike this film. It's definitely the best drama film I've
ever seen. If you haven't already seen this film, don't rent it, BUY
IT!!!!!. I don't know of anybody who dislikes this film. Its very similar to
the 'The Green Mile' but only better, I do like the Green Mile though but
this is far better. This film should be number 1 instead of the 'The
Godfather'.

******
5 December 2000
9

I'm not going to rattle on for hours about how good this film is, as I
can't
say anything that hasn't already been said. The plot twist in this film is
second to none, just a pity it was ruined for me.... This film is a
masterpiece and my third favourite film of all time, second only to The
Godfather and Schindlers List. The Shawshank Redemption, 9/10. The second
best film of the 1990's.

******
25 November 2000
10

This movie is the greatest piece of work ever put on video cassette.  If
you
haven't seen it get to the nearest video store and rent it.  It can change
the way you feel about life totally with just a few quotes and actions by
the characters inside Shawshank Prison.  Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman put
on a great show and make this movie the best movie I've ever
seen.

******
18 November 2000
10

The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that slid through the Theatres without
drawing much deserved attention. It made no real impact at the academy
award
either. So why is this movie currently holding the second spot at the imdb
top 250, only beaten by the untouchable "Il Padrino"?
First of all, I believe the movie is spot on when it comes to the
description of human endurance, persistence, and adaptation. The
development
of the characters also indicates that imprisonment and freedom can't always
be divided by walls alone. Sometimes the highest walls and the worst
conditions aren't enough to stop the human spirit, other times the absence
of boundaries and even the prospect of something better, can break you down
if you lack some of your primal needs. This is where I believe the
greatness
of this movie really shows. It perfectly pinpoints the vast scope of the
human mind, and how we react both similar and differently to challenges in
life, and the movie does so in a simple, straightforward way! As "Red" says
upon the climax of this marvellous movie: "Every man has his breaking
point"

******
14 November 2000
10

I am surprised at how many people have not seen this movie. It's
spectacular. I have two favorite movies. This is one of them. I have
friends
who have no interest in seeing Shawshank, but after I make them watch it,
they all love it. No exceptions. I can't believe Forrest Gump won best
picture in '94. The Oscars lick.

******
9 November 2000
10

Words cannot describe this movie. I feel this is the best escape/prison
movie ever made. The analogy to the human situation is uncanny and it is
this fact that makes this movie great and not just very good. Now I know
what it means to be institutionalized. ESCAPE WHILE YOU CAN
!!!

******
22 October 2000
8

amongst so many films that are really well known and stink and blockbusters
that stink. This is not a blockbuster but a classic to all movie buffs and
it is becoming more and more known and appreciated. I love this film. I have
seen it the for the third time recently and still it brings tears into my
eyes at some points. The cast is great, with Morgan Freeman and a great Tim
Robbins. I still do not know what to think of Andy (Robbins), did he do it
or didn't he. There are several hints in the film but I still do not know,
for Andy is a hard man to see through.WATCH THIS MUST SEE8 out of 10

******
21 October 2000
10

I think this movie is my favorite of all time.  The reasons are (1)I watch
it every time it is played on television in rerun even though I have it on
tape (2)It gets an emotional reaction from me every time I watch it and
(3)I
never notice how long the movie is because I am so entertained by
it.

******
4 October 2000
7

Some movies really need more than 2 hours to develop their story. I think
"The Shawshank Redemption" would have been more successful if it was not
so
long.  The story is truly excellent...moving, intense, and joyous at the
same time.  I think it could have been improved by editing out a few
scenes
which were redundant to the purpose of the mood they were establishing.


******
4 August 2000
10

With all due respect to the people that complain of it's too stark
good
vs. evil characters, simplicity and so on... you are missing the point.
Having been raised on a steady diet of Hollywood crap, this was first, and
only, movie that has been truly inspirational and moved me to tears.  This
is NOT standard Hollywood material.
It has been pointed out that, in general, optimism is equated with
ignorance.  I was of that opinion as well, but this was truly a
LIFE-CHANGING movie for me.  This wasn't a movie so much as it was a
wake-up
call.  I've seen all the classics.  But nothing I've encountered has
conveyed such a message of positivity and hope as this movie, without
being
contrived or obvious.
To all those who pour negative reviews on "Shawshank", stop being a
critic, and start being human.  To everyone else, I think we're all better
people for having seen it.

******
10 June 2000
9

In years to come the Shawshank Redemtion will be seen as a classic and
rightly so. 
The is a wonderfully moving story about a bonding friendship between two men
who are locked up in Shawshank prison for differing reasons.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman deserve any praise that can be heaped apon
them because i feel it is them more so than the story that hooks you from
the first time you meet the characters.You feel for them and you hope that
thing turn out for the best . If i had to critisise the film for anything it
would be the lack of an ageing process that the men go through but that is
nit picking. A film you could watch over and over again. 9 out of
10

******
26 May 2000
9

So says the warden of Shawshank prison, though Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins)
finds it belongs to a lot more people in this often-harrowing
tale.The Shawshank Redemption is a very, very clever film in that it takes its
call from elder cinema, meaning it can net not only acclaim but also a wider
audience. It's surely no coincidence that the first sound we hear  before
the titles have even begun to roll - is that of The Ink Spots singing "If I
Didn't Care". The shot pans out to Tim Robbins in an old-fashioned
automobile and then to a courtroom where his last words to his wife were
"I'll see you in Hell". No profanity from a bitter man in 90's cinema,
though expletives do flavour the piece, with 24 uses of the f-word and 48
minor swearwords.A few minutes into the film and part of the reason is given: the setting is
1947. However, the oldstyle trappings of the piece never leave it: violence
and sexual activity are never laboured on. Beatings are delivered in shadow,
or, in the case of Andy's first, the camera discretely pulls back and turns
a corner while we just hear the sound. Note we are never shown that Andy is
raped, we are just told that he is by Morgan Freeman's narration. That's
another strong point of the film, and also an historical device, that of
first person narration. Freeman adds a constant magnetism to the film; his
voice-over a necessity considering it takes place over 20 years.
Refreshingly, the ageing process is used subtly, if at all, rather than
using unconvincing prosthetics. A little grey to Morgan's hair and the power
of persuasion is all that is needed to carry out the illusion of time
passing.Another interesting point is that of race. Someone once told me they didn't
like the film because they saw the black/white male bonding between Robbins
and Freeman as too contrived and worthy. I told them that this showed a
suspect attitude on their part as Ellis Redding's skin colour hadn't
occurred to me, nor is it ever mentioned throughout the film. It isn't an
issue that Redding is black, he just IS. Ultimately, the redemption of the title comes from Robbins' humanitarian
intellectualism against the warden's fundamental religious beliefs. But the
ultimate testament to erstwhile cinema is that of two things: plot and
character. It's this strength of character, not to mention two superb
understated leads, which mean you can watch it again and again, even when
one viewing reveals the twist in the tale. All the characters are
three-dimensional, breathing human beings that get not lines, but emotions
and beliefs. Occasionally some  not much, but some  of the dialogue can
strain towards the overly sentimental. Perhaps this is what produced the
nauseating tagline "Fear can hold you prisoner  hope can set you free".
Yuck! But generally this pleasantly paced, well-told tale hits the target in
it's own relaxed way. Far from pedestrian, the timing of the film is like
that of drinking a cool beer on a hot summer's roof, or a whole yardful of
inmates standing stock still to the beauty of Mozart. The Shawshank Redemption was released the same year as Pulp Fiction, yet
both of them were disgraced at the Oscars by the forgettable Forrest Gump. A
great oversight.

******
15 November 1999
10

The Shawshank Redemption is a masterpiece. It is certainly the finest work
of Tim Robbins' career, and Morgan Freeman even surpasses his usual lofty
standard of excellence. This is one of those few movies that one can watch
many times over and never get tired of it. It is hard to believe that the
story is based on a novel by Stephen King. Every aspect of this film is
first rate. It's the closest to a perfect film I've seen in the decade of
the nineties.

******
29 May 1999
10

You must see this movie.  Great plot, awesome acting.  I can't believe it
didn't win an Oscar.  It should have beaten Gump that year.

******
22 May 1999
10

Well, Shawshank Redemption is a perfect movie.  There is no scene out of
place, no piece of music that stands out, the moral is very clear, and it
doesn't even need to be spelt out for you.
The acting by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman complete the movie and make
it the heart-warmer, the tear jerker, the nail biter, and the perfect
movie
that it is.
After I saw it for the first time, I was instantly touched and a fan for
life.  I've only seen it three or four more times, but each time I see it,
I
learn something new, or discover a new angle of the story.
I'd say that if you only see one movie for the rest of your life, it
would
have to be Shawshank Redemption.  And if, after watching it, you can tell
me
that it isn't the best movie in the world, then I'd say that there is
something seriously wrong with you.

******
6 May 1999
9

How the hell did this get voted number one in the top 250? Meandering
adaptation of a tight little King short. Typically hammy performances and
so
sugary you could drop it into the world's water system and everyone would
go
hyper.It's okay, as adaptations go, but there is soooo much better out
there.Steev

******
20 April 1999
10

This truly has to be the greatest film ever made.  This film has you
hooked
from beginning to end and never loses its edge.  And to think that it came
from "Stephen King" although this is not the first time King has given us
such a great flick ("Stand By Me", "Misery", "The Shining").  Whats more
unbelievable is that it was snubbed of the Best Picture for both the
Oscars
and Golden Globe.  Sure "Forrest Gump" was a great film but it's not often
that you find a movie so captivating and can have such a beautiful, edgy
and
realistic storyline.  Even the AFI's "100 movies 100 years" didn't include
this in their list.  Both critics and audiences have had positive things
to
say about this movie.  I think that if you haven't watched it yet, then
you
truly can't understand what true movie-making is all about.


******
11 April 1999
8

No, this is NOT the greatest film of all time.  I don't think you could
pinpoint one single film as that but "The Shawshank Redemption" is one of
the most powerful and moving experiences of the 1990's (other masterpieces
include "Schindler's List", "Dead Man Walking", "The Piano", "Glengarry Glen
Ross", etc.) "The Shawshank Redemption" is the harrowing story of a man
wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover.  He is sent to prison
to serve two life sentences.  There he meets Red, who becomes his best
friend.  The film speaks loudly about hope and its unending importance in
life and that is a lesson we too often forget.  This film is a marvelous
reminder, with remarkable performances by Tim Robbins and Oscar-nominated
Morgan Freeman.  It is beautifully written and expertly directed and a fine
film in several aspects.Regardless of whether it IS the greatest film of all time, the greatest film
of the decade, or the greatest film of 1994, it is not to be missed for it
holds wisdom and is great fun. 

******
4 April 1999
9

Perhaps the greatest challenge of the AMPAS is determining what defines a
"Best Picture." I have heard it defined from some forgotten source directly
tied to the AMPAS that a Best Picture is one that holds itself superb in the
following three categories: Direction, Writing, and Acting, not necessarily
in that order. A good example would be Citizen Kane, arguably the most
worthy winner of these three categories (Kane lost to How Green and never
picked up the Best Picture statue). However, it is certain that the greatest
film of all time would need to excel especially in one field: Originality.
How many people would even go bother to see another interpertation of
Titanic? However, if this particular film had come out before the Cameron
version, it would certainly be hailed with critical acclaim. Shawshank is
one that meets the AMPAS standards of excellence, and most certainly would
have taken the Best Picture title, if not for Forrest Gump, a film which
many members perhaps found it impossible to not vote for due to the momentum
it had gained. If Shawshank had been nominated almost any other year of this
decade, the statue would have been a lock. However, we must look at
Shawshank not as the year's Best Picture, but as a film in the long timeline
of movie history, a film which tells an original story with original acting
style and original directing. Can we look at Shawshank and with all
sincerity call it the greatest film ever? Before deciding, a prerequisite
should be to see at least 50 of the best films of this century. In this way,
Shawshank loses the advantage of being fresh in our memory, losing the
emotional effect, and must bow to the annals of time as do all the other
superb films of history. Shawshank is not the Best Picture of all time nor
the greatest film of all time. This is a fact we must face and learn to live
with, no matter how much the storyline touched us all.


******
15 March 1999
10

If anyone has any doubts about how great this movie is...just look at the
number of votes, the average of them, and read all the user comments.  It
was a crime not to award this movie the Oscar in 1994.  I have used the IMDB
for two years...at least...and Shawshank is consistently in the top three;
the only exceptions being when one of those over-advertised "hype" movies is
fresh in the box office.  To anyone who has not witnessed near perfection in
movie-making, just rent this movie and think about how you feel as the
credits start to roll at the end.  I'd go out on a limb to say that anyone
who isn't moved emotionally to a higher level after seeing this movie is
probably a robot.In my opinion, it's not the number one movie of all time (please see Holy
Grail) but it is a very close second!  And, I believe the AFI should pay
attention and make this movie its first amendment to the top 100 of all
time.

******
12 March 1999
10

Such a gripping story -- innocent people do get locked up, 'ya know -- and
it's so very sad...  I loved the end of the movie.  Very realistic, I'm
afraid -- I pray it makes criminals think twice before thinking that prison
is tolerable - and I wish our criminal justice system would wake up and
make some corrections.  People need rehabilitation, not
torture.

******
1 March 1999
10

I remember the first time I saw this movie. It was on the big screen. Let me
say something about how movie-goers in my country watch their movies at the
cinemas. They always leave before the credits at the end of the movie is up.
But it was different with Shawshank Redemption (S.R.) Most of the audience
just sat on although there were not many because it was a working day. All
who stayed on for the ending credits were obviously moved by the movie. I
stayed on to learn who wrote the story. As I left the first thing on my mind
was "I've got to get hold of the novel from which this movie is made. Some
years later the VCD version is in the market. I have watched it in the
comfort of my home several times and find that I still enjoy it at every
viewing.  I am puzzled how a movie this good could let Forrest Gump sweep
all the price. It makes me doubt the credibility of the Academy of
Performing Arts.
This is a story about Friends. When one has a true friend, no matter how bad
the situation is it makes life tolerable.

******
1 February 1999
8

Very good performances from Freeman and Robbins.
Good writing.  The best move ever?  Nope.  I gave
it a 8 out of 10.As a libertarian, my own feelings about freedom, power,
and corruption are apparently quite a bit stronger than either Darabont or
Stephen King.

******
27 January 1999
9

I went in to give blood- the staff was watching this.. needless to say
several orange juices and cookies later I was still at the blood bank,
laughing and crying with the staff.  This is a remarkable movie for its
subtlety- I like the fact that no one ever knew Andy was digging a tunnel- I
like how he tells his friend to look a certain place if he ever gets out-
and I like the message of hope for those who feel hopeless. Stephen King
outdid himself with the story and Robbins and Freeman do wa wonderful job
with the script they were given. Just to see the words " brooks was here"
and then "so was Red" add those little touches that makes a movie great. A
movie that deserved more accolades.

******
5 August 2015
10
There are a lot of good movies, and then there are movies that have the
power to change your life. The Shawshank Redemption is just an extraordinarily inspirational
movie. It just isn't a normal prison break story; a very deep implicit
definition is buried in every scene of it. The main theme is the
presence and the belief in hope by the main character of the story,
Andy Dufresne. Repeatedly saying "hope is a good thing", Andy finally
gets what he always wanted: an escape and a new start in the Pacific,
something that was always described as impossible by the other
prisoners. I guess that the element that triggered the viewers' attention the most
was the optimism and mysterious character of Andy Dufresne. Watching
the movie, we weren't really able to read what was going on his mind
even though we had implicit clues of the clever and beautiful things he
kept to himself. The choice of Tim Robbins as the main persona was well
thought by Frank Darabont as he doesn't show a lot of emotions on his
face. The bond that connected the inmates, especially Red and Andy was very
strong, leading to sacrifices and promises. The friendship between the
two men lasts beyond the walls of Shawshank and finds itself
reincarnated in Zihuatanejo, the country with no memory. Another thing that strikes the spectators is the enjoyment and the love
of the small things in life. This concept was seen in the "opera music
scene", where the beauty of the music and the voices of the Italian
ladies went past the skins and through the souls of the prisoners. The
excitement felt by all these men was the only pleasing element that
wasn't taken from them in this dangerous place. The most important piece of The Shawshank Redemption was the message
that inspired all the movie lovers: every man has value and importance
in the world. This message personally helped me slide away from my
negative attitude and helped me enjoy every moment of life. For this incredible adaptation of "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank
Redemption" by Stephen King, I would like to gratefully thank Frank
Darabont sharing his work of art to the world.

******
23 July 2015
3
Andy Dufresne is a young and successful banker whose life changes
drastically when he is convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for
the murder of his wife and her lover. Set in the 1940s, the film shows
how Andy, with the help of his friend Red, the prison entrepreneur,
turns out to be a most unconventional prisoner.wow Andy Dufresne is a
young and successful banker whose life changes drastically when he is
convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife
and her lover. Set in the 1940s, the film shows how Andy, with the help
of his friend Red, the prison entrepreneur, turns out to be a most
unconventional prisoner.wow Andy Dufresne is a young and successful
banker whose life changes drastically when he is convicted and
sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her
lover. Set in the 1940s, the film shows how Andy, with the help of his
friend Red, the prison entrepreneur, turns out to be a most
unconventional prisoner.wow

******
2 July 2014
10
SPOILER AHEAD, DON'T SAY I DIDN'T WARNED. Andy Dufresne is a banker
convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife
and her lover. The message that the movie tries to pass is that hope
can set you free. It talks about Andy and his friends that lives in
jail for a long time, and how Andy became "successful" even at jail.
Andy knows that his place isn't in there, he dosn't consider himself
guilty for the murder of his wife and her lover, he don't even tries to
defend himself in the court, so when he's in jail he seems to be so
peaceful and tranquilized that the other prisoners thinks he's spoiled,
and he suffers from that from time to time because some queers liked
him and frequently spanked and raped him. Andy also became friend with
the director of the jail and the guard, using his banker skills to help
them, but in return he asks for his friends to be treated nicely. Andy
has a lot of hobbies, he's affectionate for stones, and he likes to
play chess to, but he favorite hobby was dropping rests of what he
toked of his wall inside his cell, he toked 20 years to make the entire
tunnel and scape, of course he wouldn't leave his friend Red, behind
with nothing, he told what the future reserved for them and told him
where to look for it. For me the high level of the movie was at the end
when they reveal Andy's plan, but it's so complex that I think that you
would rather just go and watch the movie. One of my favorite movies of
all time.

******
23 January 2014
2
It was a movie. I saw it.An actor is in it. He is a good actor.There are many scenes of dialogue, which I found confusing.Sometimes there is running and jumping. The jumping is good.Some people say it has a twist ending, but I thought it made perfect
sense.It reminded me a lot of another movie, but I don't know which one.When you watch the whole thing, you will know what happens.A lot of people say this movie made them cry, but I thought it was
happy.I kind of had to go to the bathroom when I watched this, I hope that
doesn't spoil my opinion.

******
20 January 2013
8
I just saw the movie today. I liked the plot of the movie, and it
didn't feel like it lasted for 2,5 hours. During the film, you start to
love the prisoners, because you get to know them more and more.I think this isn't the GREATEST movie ever, but it sure as hell is a
good movie. I'd rate it a 8 or an 8,5.I like the fact too they show you how the prisoners react when their
prison time is over. I find it hard to imagine how i'd feel if i was
locked for 50 years. And a happy ending always makes me feel allot better.. although it is a
bit dull.

******
6 January 2013
6
I've been thinking why is this movie The best movie for so many people,
then I remembered it is like music, the best music is the ones you
heard at 14. because you associate with memory and when your brain
starts developing and your awareness of yourself and others come into
being.this movie revitalized my love for classical and baroque music no doubt
and introduced some themes. I find the main character somewhat
unrealistic only because I personally cannot relate to him. If I was in
his position I doubt I would have done what he did.It is good but I prefer Morgan Freeman's The Bucket List much more and
a variety of prison movies(American History X) and TV series(Prison
Break).

******
5 February 2010
9
Shawshank Redemption is a fantastic film from the beginning right till
the end. It is really beautiful. The direction and script are really
superb. The acting of Morgan Freeman is exceptional. If Forrest Gump
was made on another year, he would certainly have got an Oscar. If you want me to describe the movie in one word,I would say, "
Beautiful." The story was very good, the storytelling was better. The
scriptwriter deserves an applause. It is one of the best movies I have ever seen. It certainly deserves a
spot in the top 250. But having said that, I don't think this movie
should be #1. It will be like a disgrace to the movies like Schindler's
list and Forrest Gump because those movies really touched my heart. I
think Schindler's List and Forrest Gump should come above Shawshank
Redemption.1 thing I forgot to tell you. I liked the dialogue of Morgan Freeman
with the parole evaluator. It was absolutely heart touching. This movie
has a hidden propaganda. Well, not particularly hidden, anyway. It is
about the question of imprisoning people. Should it be done??Do we have
the right to do that?? Wouldn't it be better if we try to talk some
sense into them?? Or, wouldn't it even be better if we kill them rather
than to give them life sentences?? I think I have an answer but that
shouldn't be discussed because I think this question will continue to
be a moral dilemma of the human communityI really liked that dialogue. Rehabilitated?? Let me tell you something
sonny, that word is for politicians so that you can wear a suit and a
tie and can have a job. Brilliant. Heart touching.This movie is an emotional dilemma folded together into an easily
understandable story. There is one more thing I need to put here. Most
o f the people who have rated this movie # 1 haven't got a clue about
this hidden message. They have rated this because of the surprise
ending. This is an open criticism.

******
7 September 2009
8
This film has become the film that wins most 'best 100' polls. I don't
know why but it does.However, this is a good movie. From my perspective I think it is liked
so much is that the plot is ever changing and moves along at a good
pace. The story seems to progress in little chapters and it builds to a
wonderful climax. As the movie develops we become engrossed in what
will happen next. We do enjoy Andy's victories over the bad guys and we
do want to know what happens in the end.Technically, This is nothing special. There are very few moody shots
and angles that challenge the visual senses. Visually I do think this
compares to Citizen Cane or Pulp Fiction. But in a way I think that
because we are not distracted by fancy pictures we stay with the plot.Make sure you watch this, even if it is just to see what all the fuss
is about.

******
18 January 2008
10
Want to know why this movie is the best ever made? Is simple really,
because it talks about all of us. It tells the story of how we all feel
in times of desperate. The basic needs of all of us, for this movie its
freedom, revenge, and love(friendship)! That is our emotional NEED in
today world. Therefor I think that if anyone wants to make a another
great movie they should remember to make the film out of a simple
element, Human Emotional Needs, and let the lack of those needs drive
the film, until those needs are achieved at the end of the film. That's
what will make a great film. However it is our creativity that would
make the film comes alive and stick in the viewers mind forever.

******
10 January 2008
10
A film like this comes along every few decades. Its better than savage
or amazing the only way to describe it is the greatest film EVER. Its
all about a man called Andy Dufresne falsely accused of murder of his
wife and her lover and is sent to shawshank prison where he is beaten
by the guards and other prisoners. Eventually he makes a friend called
Red and fits in with Red. Andy was a smart banker before prison and
used his brains to help the other prisoners like solving the guards tax
problems then the wardens. Andy finds a way to escape from the prison
by digging a hole and using a poster of Rita Hayworth to cover the
hole(That is why the short story is called Rita Hayworth and The
Shawshank Redemption) Andy escapes but before escaping he told Red to
look under a tree when he leaves. Red leaves and finds that Andy under
a fake name living in Mexico. The two meet for the first time in years
and shake hands. The Shawshank Redemption starts and ends Fascinating.

******
6 January 2008
10
the movie shaw-shank redemption is amazing,it compels the audience with
history and simple diary narration.it shows you what life is like from
different point of views and has a simple storyline "go to prison and
die there" but the people in the movie do not follow on with this line
and are permanently being tested both by mental and physical
assumptions plus every time they attempt to plea for freedom they are
constantly being rejected and some prisoners (Andy dufrence) are
actually Innocent and in prison every one is innocent but he is really
innocent to many Innocent's the plot is simple Andy is attempting to
break out by using the facilities shaw-shank prison has to offer e.g.
he uses red his best friend to smuggle in necessary items axe posters
and uses other people to help exceed his plans to break out of prison.
all in all i honestly could not find Any faults with the movie and
loved the story,i especially liked the narration and how each scene was
related in a formal sense.well i really recommend this old classic to be viewed and want to hear
other views

******
22 November 2007
10
One of my favourite films ever. I first saw the movie shortly after it
came out, I was around 16 years old. I like to revisit it every year or
so and it's still as fresh as ever. Although there are some unpleasant
realities and strong language, for once I think they are justified and
not overly emphasised.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are superb. You would think a film set
mostly in a prison would be depressing, boring even. Not so. I always
feel uplifted after watching it and the final scene never fails to
bring a tear to my eye. I like it so much I bought two copies on DVD in
case I lose one. This should be on everyone's "must see" list.

******
1 October 2007
9
Thought to be one of the greatest movies of all time and ranked 2nd on
IMDb's list of top 250 movies ever created. When i first heard of this
film and its general plot i wasn't too enthusiastic about watching it.
I mean, lets get serious... yet another prison movie where someone is
supposedly wrongly accused for a crime he did not commit... we've seen
them all. However, i can honestly and proudly admit that i was beyond
the shadow of a doubt, completely and utterly wrong. This is truly an
amazing movie. With its own charisma to it, it leaves the audience on
the edge of their seats, wanting to find out more and waiting for the
plot to unravel further. It captures your mind and truly speaks to you.
Of course, a great deal of respect must be given to Morgan Freeman and
Tim Robin for their outstanding performances. This movie deserves to
have its own genre. A MUST see movie and a personal favorite.

******
14 September 2007
10
The Shawshank Redemption is one of the finest examples of Stephen
King's work adapted to the big screen. If not THE finest. Based on a
short story from King's novella Different Seasons, it may be that rare
thing where its a film that actually improves upon its source material.
The story, of a man wrongfully imprisoned for the murder of his wife
and her lover made for an interesting read, but it made for an even
better film.Although TSR was nominated for seven Academy Awards, it didn't win a
single one. Most of them went to the completely overrated Forrest Gump,
including Best Picture and Best Actor. I think that was one of the
Academy's darkest days.Despite the fact TSR did next to no business in 1994, it quickly
gathered word of mouth afterwards, and went on to a healthy afterlife
on video and TV. But that's not all. It slowly worked its way into the
hearts and minds of people the world over, and today it's regarded as
one of the greatest films ever made. Even a true American classic. And
its even No 2 on the IMDb top 250. Beating out Forrest Gump by a
significant margin!TSR is also one of the few films in the world that actually deserves
all the acclaim it receives. I really loved this movie. I loved
everything about it. The theme of maintaining hope in the face of
crushing despair could have made for Hallmark TV movie material, but in
the hands of first time director Frank Darabont, he's created an utter
masterpiece.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, the man who allegedly did the crime.
He is convicted and ordered to serve two consecutive life sentences in
Shawshank State Prison. Robbins' performance is interesting if you've
seen the one other really good film he made in 1994, The Hudsucker
Proxy. There he played a bumbling, doltish fool. His work in TSR is a
jarring about face.He completely downplays his emotions to the point of resigned dourness.
Its quite a shocking thing to watch. But as good as Robbins'
performance is, what makes it that all the more special is Andy's
character is opened up not by him, but by an external character.Morgan Freeman, in arguably the best performance of his career plays
Red, the prison fixer. He can get things for any inmate. Whether it be
cigarettes, or a rock hammer. He is the narrator of the picture, and it
is through his words that the world of Shawshank becomes a harsh and
frightening reality.He knows the ins and outs of the prison system. When new inmates
arrive, he can usually tell which ones won't last. He knows your first
night at Shawshank is the worst. New inmates have to endure the
catcalls and taunts of their cellmates. Red pegged Andy as the one who
would break first. But he never did.Red freely admits he didn't think much of Andy at first. But slowly,
the two men become acquaintances, and much later, friends. Morgan
Freeman's resigned, soothing voice illuminates the harsh surroundings
of the prison walls. The scariest thing about the prison was the
Sisters. Sadistic prisoners who turned gay while locked up, and try to
convert others. First through suggestion. And if that fails, force.
Andy was their favourite target. And he had to endure rapes and
beatings for his first two hellish years at Shawshank.Andy's background as an investment banker brings him to the attention
of Warden Norton. Norton is a hypocritical tyrant. He claims to be a
devout Christian, but he won't tolerate any challenges to his
authority. Any who do wind up in solitary. For months at a time if
necessary. Norton has Andy secure funds he has embezzled. And in
exchange, Andy can procure funds for a new library and even beers for
his fellow inmates. As long as he does exactly what Norton tells him
to.The Shawshank Redemption resonates on many different levels as it tells
many different stories. One of the most poignant is the plight of
Brooks, an elderly inmate. Imprisoned for years, when he finally makes
parole, he is terrified. Life at Shawshank has become the only life
he's ever known. Once released, he knows he'll never survive out there.
And he's right. The world has gone and changed on him. And life as a
grocery bagger is no life at all. So he hangs himself. Its a haunting
story. And one that never fails to choke me up inside.That situation extends to Red too. In Shawshank, he has a purpose. He
is respected, valued, needed. Parole is not much different than a death
sentence. He gets rejected for parole frequently over the course of 30
years. And he couldn't be happier.The most wrenching thing of all is Andy's apparent deterioration. He
believes in hope. And tries to inspire some in his cellmates when he
plays Mozart's The Marriage of Figaro over the PA system. That scene is
a joyful moment to behold, with the men in the yard transfixed by the
music. And Norton punishes him for his defiance. Andy seems to reach
breaking-point when he confesses to Red he might as well have murdered
his wife, because he didn't show her enough love and affection.It seems Norton has finally broken Andy. But when Andy escapes, its a
triumphal moment. That famous scene, after Andy crawls 500 yds through
a sewage pipe, standing in a downpour, relishing his first taste of
freedom. It will send your spirits sky-high.Things end appropriately with Andy and later Red gaining freedom, on a
secluded island. I love the way the camera observes their reunion from
a distance. After their souls have been laid to bear, they deserve some
privacy. One of the defining pictures of our generation. An experience I love to
re-visit over and over.Magnificent!

******
9 August 2007
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a gripping masterpiece that should not be
missed by anyone. Andy Dufrense keeps us in suspense the entire way
with his mysterious attitude to prison life and his claim that he is
innocent. Tim Robbins performs excellently. Morgan Freemans role as Red
telling the story was also quite an interesting touch. When I hired
this film my expectations were not that it would become one of my
favorite movies of all time. Guys definitely this is something you have
to see for yourself and you will be categorically satisfied. Many
unexpected twists and turns and actually quite plausible considering
the time it's set in. I found myself on the edge of my seat almost the
entire way. There are many touching and feel good scenes also
particularly when Andy and his friends share a few beers in the sun on
the roof after dealing his superior and for a few moments feel like
free men. Fantastic film check it out if you haven't seen it re-watch
if you have. 5 stars.

******
6 August 2007
10
I just wanted to post a few words in order to show my support for this
movie. In my opinion, it is THE best movie I have ever seen in my life;
and I have seen thousands, (literally). I won't say anything more about
how good this movie is, due to the fact that it has all been said in
other posts, but I would like to say something to the people who don't
like it, and who may even go so far as to rate it with a 1 out of 10;
you are all retarded.I first asked myself; how could 7,000 people have possibly gave it a
one? Well, how did George W. Bush, the complete moron, get elected to
be the president of the United States of America? Sure, there were some
other reasons, but it's mostly because people are completely retarded.
So I guess that answers my question. As a matter of fact, I'm surprised
there aren't MORE retards giving this classic film masterpiece a bad
rating.Also, the people who made bad comments about it seem to keep talking
about how it's all hype and how the ignorant masses who love the movie
are all wrong. Whatever fools. I first watched it around ten years ago,
all by myself, when I had never even heard of it in my life. I stayed
up all night watching it on TBS Superstation, (the only station I know
of which somehow managed to have more commercials than actual movie),
and I loved it instantly. There was no hype there, just me and an
awesome movie.I mean, I don't EVER go around telling people about movies cause
frankly, I don't care what anyone watches, but I have not stopped
recommending this one to anyone and everyone since the night I watched
it ten years ago. I also NEVER post my opinions about movies online,
because once again, I couldn't care less what people watch, but there's
just something about this one, and only this one, that makes me want to
tell everyone to watch it. So there you have it, I ain't no fake critic
trying to pretend I know about all the different aspects which make for
a good movie, by any means, but I'm tellin ya......just watch it and if
you don't like it at least somewhat, then you should attend some form
of IQ testing facility immediately because you are probably half a
retard lol. PEACE.

******
19 July 2007
7
Frank Darabont has created a good film about the misuse of criminal
justice system and the obnoxious corruption in prisons.He has done this
by showing an insider's view of a penitentiary from the perspective of
its inmates.Although Tim Robbins has a good role in this film as
Andy,he is surpassed by Red played by Morgan Freeman.He is at the
summit of his acting prowess as everything is written on his face.There
is no other actor in Hollywood or elsewhere who could have done this
role of Red with absolute conviction as Morgan Freeman. Shawshank
Redeption tells us in clear terms that in prisons it is the rule of
everyman for himself but sometimes there are exceptions. Feelings of
suffering,sadness,trust,joy,companionship occur which give the
prisoners the hope to carry on.It is nice that there is not much focus
on feminine characters as they did not have anything that could have
justified their presence.

******
15 July 2007
9
A beautifully made, bittersweet film. Whether you view it as an
existential rescue opera (like Papillion) or just a flick (like Escape
from Alcatraz) it's still satisfying.Tim Robbins' unjustly incarcerated accountant is a measured
performance, always both hang-dog but alert. Morgan Freeman's
performance offsets this masterfully; liberated by resignation, he's a
wary but more dramatic character. And of course, his voice-over is
almost like a soundtrack.The supporting cast do a steady job but the laurels have to go to Frank
Darabont in bringing Stephen King's story to the screen. The tale is
thoroughly told - the twists are well-concealed and highly dramatic. I
especially like the detail, right down to the selection of sull'aria
from Mozart's Marriage of Figaro - the duet is a warm-hearted hatching
of a plot that will lead to that opera's resolution in redemption and
reconciliation, just like the film. 9/10

******
7 June 2007
7
Shawshank Redemption is entertaining and well made. It's not, however,
the greatest movie of all time. It's a thoughtful film and is
remarkable for appealing to people who don't usually put a whole lot of
thinking into their cinema. It covers the greatest range of viewers for
like-ability from the Fast and the Furious crowd to the Lost in
Translation audience. I don't think it'd attract big numbers from the
cinema nerds of Eraserhead fandom though. That's not to say that Lynch
fans should have a more weighted vote on IMDb. It's just that if you're
into your cinema and you watch a lot of good films, from obscure to
popular, then being told Shawshank Redemption is the best film of all
time is like hearing someone say Radiohead is the best band ever. Yes,
they're very good but you suspect their cheerleaders are only comparing
them to Coldplay, U2 and REM.

******
1 July 2005
10
If you analyze the breakdown of votes for each of the films 'The
Shawshank Redemption' and 'The Godfather' it is evident that Shawshank
scores higher than Godfather in almost every incidence.... except for
the votes supplied by IMDb staff, whereupon there is a reversal.Hmmmm.Furthermore, and miraculously if you ask me, Godfather is 'voted' #1
film of all time.By whom one wonders?I think there should be a campaign to get The Shawshank Redemption
rightly to the #1 spot. However, IMDb now sift thru the raw vote data
and disregard the votes they don't want. They really are keen to keep
The Godfather at the top.I think it's pretty unfair myself. They have a load of schpeel about
'vote rigging' which they seem to ignore themselves.Anyone got a plan? I have a Phd in Mathematics, it's a start.

******
16 March 2005
8
I don't disagree with the vast majority of folks that have seen this
movie and found it to be excellent. But instead of chiming in with more
rave comments, I'll mention the one thing I thought could have made it
a better film.I think the director had a choice as to how to portray the two chief
villains, the warden and the head prison guard. He could have modeled
them after well known American villainous types, or he could have used
a Nazi type model. He seemed to have chosen the later which I felt was
unfortunate. Maybe some would disagree, but I perceived them both as
Nazis as I watched the film. The Warden's steely intellectual manner
reminded me more of a sadistic Nazi doctor than a bible thumping
Christian. And the prison guard was very teutonic looking and handsome
rather than looking like the brutish American stereotype that I would
have preferred. I guess its a minor point, but given the rave reviews
this movie has gotten, I felt it deserved mention. I would have been
able to identify with the banker's suffering even more with more
believable, American villains rather than ones that seemed calculated
to evoke memories of WWII prisoner of war camps.

******
8 March 2005
10
I think this movie was very realistic and I realized that live in
prison is pretty far from reality. Prison is not a joke, prison will
change you against your will. Andy Durfsteen is wonderful character. He
is full of surprises till the end. He has the power to change the hell
into heaven. He shows us that power is not stored only in muscles but
in brain too. He believes in hope. He knows that he is supposed to be
in prison to the end of his life but there is still hope. He has plenty
of time for escape and with hope he can get over everything. With
enough time and plenty of hope you can escape through 10 meters fat
wall with a spoon. Thats all whats this movie about but its not enough
to know, you have to understand, you have to see it. Please excuse my
English but I had to write something.

******
6 March 2005
10
So how inaccurate and meaningless are the Academy Awards?The Shawshank Redemption - ZERO awards. Dr. Strangelove... - ZERO
awards. Citizen Kane - 1 award (screenplay). Shichinin no samurai -
ZERO awards. Rear Window - ZERO awards. Vertigo - ZERO awardsAnd yet a movie like Titanic can garner 11. I can think of 10 movies
that might be deserving of such a number of Oscars since Ben Hur
(righty) won that many. Titanic ain't one of them. In fact (at the time
of this writing) Titanic is rated 6.9 - a number that, I would guess,
may not put Titanic in the top 1000 movies.Oh, I forgot... IMDb voters are likely not as "knowledgable" as the
elite cattle who vote for Oscars.Ridiculous.

******
6 March 2005
9
The Shawshank Redempion is a great movie! It is a story of Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins) unfairly accused of murdering his wife and her
lover. He is put into one of the worst prisons in the U.S., the
Shawshank prison. At the beginning in the prison his only friend is Red
(Morgan Freeman). Other people judge him as a coward with no guts,
mainly because he never fights, takes part in sport and always has a
sad face. Late the people start liking him because the discover that he
a nice creative man. After the old librarian left he became the library
director. In a few years he created consisting of thousands of new and
old book, and he made a special reading room for people wanting to
read. By doing that he improved the behavior of some prisoners and
changed the whole prison. One day Andy is gone, and no one knows where
he is!

******
6 March 2005
10
This is a movie to give to the people that are in need of hope. I
remember when it was in the theaters and I was one of the few people
that went to see it. I returned to see the film three more times, each
time bring a friends that I had preached the film to. They to were
inspired to rave about the film to friends.My disappointment of the year was to see the film nominated for 7
Academy awards and not get any. I felt like Quentin Tarantino at the
MTV movie awards. He said something along the lines of, "You don't know
what it is like to lose to that retard every time." A little harsh, but
to the point.The greatest justice is that "Forrest Gump" is fading while "The
Shawshank Redemption" has gained a life of it's own.

******
5 March 2005
10
As someone who loves his films and has seen many of them. This film is
one of the tops. I thought upon receiving this film it would be some
boring, over strewn prison film. My god crucify me for i have
blasphemed.The cast are perfect, everyone captured their role perfectly.
Especially Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. Even the minor roles were
professionally done.The story was phenomenal. The way it twists and turns and throws you
around with it is something I didn't expect. If something minor
happened at one point in the story. You sure as hell better expect it
to be brought up later in the film in a way that makes your jaw drop.This was one of the few films were towards the end, I kept closing my
eyes where i thought it would cut to credits. I swear this film could
have gone on for another two hours with no affect to the audience
because of its depth. It absorbs you like a sponge.Unless you're blind watch this film. And if you are blind, I'm sorry to
hear that.

******
28 February 2005
10
Frank Darabont's beautiful adaptation of Stephen King's RITA HAYWORTH
AND SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION is an experience to remember for life. Tim
Robbins is Andy Dufresne and is sent to prison in New England for
murdering his wife and her lover. Morgan Freeman is Red, the man in
prison who can get things for you. Together, they forge a lasting
friendship as Andy's hope helps penetrate the thick walls in Shawshank
prison, in more ways than one.Andy's first few years at Shawshank are filled with beatings and
molestation's by a group of cretins called the "Sisters." The leader is
a man named Bogs who gives slime balls a good name. Sometimes Andy
fights them off but as Red points out, "Prison is no fairy tale world."
Red arranges for his friends and Andy to tar the roof of the plate
factory giving them all a nice rest from the prison walls. Red is
definitely a man with connections. Clancy Brown is the picture of
cruelty as the head of the guards named Byron Hadley. Andy overhears
Hadley complaining about how the government is gonna take a nice chunk
from his brother's inheritance. Andy informs Hadley how he could keep
most of his brother's inheritance by allowing a tax free gift to his
wife. Hadley nearly throws him off the roof but manages to hear him
out. Andy sets up the papers for him in exchange for getting Red and
his friends three beers a piece. To everyone's surprise Hadley agrees.
This wins Andy a lot of friends especially when one offers him a beer
and he tells him he's quit drinking.The warden gets wind of Andy's accounting skills and realizes he can
use him to do his taxes. Andy gets a vicious beating from Bogs and the
"Sisters" but this time Hadley beats Bogs to a pulp, crippling him and
having him drinking through a straw for the rest of his life. Bogs is
transferred out and the "Sisters" never touch Andy again.When Andy returns he finds the poster of Rita Hayworth he asked Red
for. It comes with a note that says "Free of Charge." Red and his
friends are happy Andy is back and well. The Warden, played chillingly
by Bob Gunton as greed personified, transfers Andy into the library and
out of the laundry where Andy worked and endured beatings the first
couple of years.Andy soon becomes an assistant to Brooks, an old prisoner nicely played
by James Whitmore. Brooks cares for a bird named Jake and is well liked
by Red and his friends. Later, Brooks is released and finds he's
institutionalized and can't make it in the real world. Sadly, he kills
himself and this worries Red more than anyone because he's constantly
rejected by the Parole Board and fears being institutionalized.Andy sends out many letters requiring more funding for the library,
with the permission of the warden, and gets it converted into a
beautiful place in memory of Brooks. There, Andy helps many prisoners
get their Higschool education's.Andy helps one man in particular out, a young thief named Tommy, that
Red and his friends like as well. Later, Red and Andy find out that man
spent time in prison with the real man who killed Andy's wife and her
lover. Andy tells the warden and the warden has Hadley shoot Tommy to
death.Andy is now trapped helping the corrupt Warden with all his dirty
money. He confides in Red and tells him he wants to spend the rest of
his life on an island in the pacific. Red tells him not to think like
that but Andy gives Red instructions to find something of his when he
gets out. Red promises too but is worried about Andy. Andy says his
choice is ,"Get busy living or get busy dying." The rest you can find
out for yourself in this thought provoking and perfectly acted film.
This is not just some prison movie but a movie about the harsh
realities of confinement, the choices we make in our life, and of
having hope despite the worst circumstances.Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins have never been better as well as the
supporting cast. William Sadler does a nice job as Heywood, the Hank
Williams loving friend who thinks a book in the library is called THE
COUNT OF MONTE CRISCO.Frank Darabont directs this film so well you truly hate for it to end.
Roger Deakins Cinematography is epic and inspiring and Thomas Newman's
score finds just the right mood. This film is one of those you turn on
in the middle of and just watch to the end, an incredibly deep and
moving experience.

******
25 February 2005
10
I liked this film a lot!! This is the best film i ever seen! A like
films about jail or something, especially when such films are long... -
- - Morgan Freeman is very good actor... A lot of his films are good Of
course there other good actors Also there are some funny places to
watch..., but this film was brutal. People who haven't seen this film,
i recommend them to watch it... The film beginning was the best in the
film i think, but I liked the end too. Some horrible things happened
there too, like when that "Elvis" man killed... and of course when old
man (Brooks) died. I would like to watch this film again for many
times.

******
11 February 2005
10
Simply stated, this may be the best movie of all time. The story is
infinitely engaging, the acting is impeccable, the cinematography is
marvelous, and the score is wonderful. It is probably the most well
rounded film you can hope to watch. I saw it first in 1995 on video and was amazed that it did not win a
single Academy award. It certainly should have. Do yourself a favor. If
you really want to see a true work of cinematic art, see this movie. FOR THE NAY SAYERS: They say that if you are young and NOT liberal you
don't have a heart, and that if you are old and NOT conservative, you
don't have a brain. Well, no matter what age you are, if you do NOT
enjoy this movie you don't have a heart or a brain!

******
11 February 2005
10
This movie, which I have seen at least 15 times, is my pick for the
best movie of the past 20 years and certainly among my Top 10 Films of
all time. It was a wonderful story with one of the best endings I've
ever experienced in a film. Morgan Freeman fully deserved his Oscar
nomination but, conversely, Tim Robbins was robbed of his. His
portrayal of Andy DuFresne, a convict lifer wrongfully convicted of
killing his wife, was nothing short of amazing. How the academy could
have overlooked him in their voting is beyond me and everyone else I
know that has seen the film. This is the only film for which I have
never heard a bad comment and it got rave reviews from everyone I told
to see it. If you haven't seen The Shawshank Redemption, you've missed
one of the most wonderful and powerful films of all time. See it today!
You'll thank me.

******
10 February 2005
10
Finally! For the second time in a week this movie is back to No. 2
where it is rightly placed, second to the Godfather. Thanks to
everybody who voted to bring it back. I just wish it will stay there. It was very awful seeing this movie ranked behind just one of LOR
films. What is even worse is that the only movie that collected more
votes than Shawshank Redemption is LOR1. I hope that will not be the
case one day. If it is the Godfather, we would 've lived with it, but
some times it is difficult to understand these IMDb users' votes.I wont add any other comments to what people already mentioned. I just
want to say that if you haven't yet seen this movie, then you don't
know what you are missing.10/10

******
5 February 2005
10
What can I say about Shawshank that hasn't already been said? This is
one of my all-time favourite movies, and I've seen it maybe a dozen
times but I keep going back for more.Tim Robbins is cast perfectly as Andy Dufresne, a man convicted of
killing his wife and her lover and sentenced to prison, but who somehow
never quite lets prison break his spirit.In a sense, this can be compared to Cuckoo's Nest; Andy's effect on the
prison and his fellow prisoners is much like MacMurphy's effect on the
mental patients. And Warden Norton has a Nurse Ratched-like character,
full of self-righteousness and a kind of indignation at having to
"teach them a lesson".Simple story or not, this movie is uplifting and inspiring. Wonderfully
acted and directed, Shawshank's status as a classic is well-deserved.

******
4 February 2005
10
This story has such an awesome effect on those who watch it! This movie
leaves you reading the credits with that "feel good" feeling deep
inside you. Timm Robins and Morgan Freeman absolutely steal the show
with their amazing friendship. I give this movie five stars, two thumbs
up, and one heck of a high-five!!This movie proves that you do not need to pump a movie full of action
scenes, romance, and comedy in order to wind up with a great film in
the end. This movie is by far one of the greatest films that i have
seen in a long time and i was excited to find out that i would be able
to voice my opinion with leaving a comment like this!

******
1 February 2005
10
I can't seem to be able to find my copy of Different Seasons. Can
anyone tell me the correct spelling of the town they end up in? Maybe
you could e-mail me at vjohnson18@cinci.rr.com with Stephen King in the
subject line. Thanks Victor. Also,how can anyone say this was a bad
movie? You don't get nominated for Academy awards on the strength of
bad acting. The movie is set of course in the forties to start.In that
time period most everyone's mannerisms with each other are very formal
and polite. I believe the movie hit that right on the spot. That's why
I don't understand how someone thinks there is so much overacting. If
you want to see overacting watch just about everything that David
Caruso has ever been in most notably Csi Miami.He's the only negative
thing in that trilogy. Overacting in Shawshank,I can't imagine where
this guy's head was at or what he was expecting to get from this movie.
He probably thinks the Count of Monte Cristo was a flop too, where like
Shawshank the best parts of the movie were the deep conversations, and
interactions to each other based on the complete range of human
emotions. The intense circumstances of the various subplots of both
movies can't help but bring about the most powerful depiction of
emotions that the human heart can muster. When a movie shows this and
can also make you feel what the characters feel that's a good movie.
When a movie covers all the emotions,character buildups and a plot that
keeps you riveted in your seat and You wouldn't know it if the theater
was on fire, that's not just a good movie it's great. Sorry but if you
can't get that maybe you ought to stay with something easier like
cartoons.

******
31 January 2005
10
***Contains Spoilers*** This movie is a touching quite film about one
man's quest for dignity in a dehumanizing prison system and his finding
freedom. This movie has two baffo performances by Morgan Freeman as Red
"the man who can get things" Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufrense the quiet
banker who escapes the soul crushing hell on earth that is Shawshank
prison my first thoughts when i saw this was "this is based on a
Stephen King book?? huh this is really deep and emotional" so needless
to say it comes of as something you wouldn't expect IL King to write
but the movie is a great touching look at the indomitable human spirit
and friendship it is a very good movie.

******
28 January 2005
9
This shouldn't be #3. In fact, it should be #1. I believe the writing
behind a film is the most important aspect of it. This movie tells a
story of a man who was left to die for something he never did, and how
he takes what is given to him, and creates a intellectual paradise for
himself and fellow inmates. Being such a genius, he is able to cover
all his bases knowing that all of it could come crashing down, and it
did. He makes a thought impossible escape, exposes his biggest enemy
for what he is, and takes all his money which rightfully belongs to him
anyway. It is a genius script and both actors are in my top 10. I love
this movie, and it's second to none as it takes the most important
aspects of film-making and owns all other movies at them. (Although
props to Charlie Kaufman for being the coolest writer ever, but still
not making my #1 movie)

******
23 January 2005
10
The best I've seen so far in my life. I have missed it when it came out
and actually I only saw it last week. It was a rerun on TV way after
midnight. I went to bed a 4 o'clock in the morning and next day bought
the DVD. It absolutely great and 9.0 it's way too small a mark for this
one :) The main idea is about an extremely smart guy who knows how to
keep its mouth shut :) ... but I guess there were others that commented
the plot earlier so I can't bring new stuff to it :) If you missed this
movie then go and rent it, buy it do whatever's necessary to see it
because it's 100% worth. The plot is great, the characters are
exquisitely built and you won't be able to guess what happens. Tim
Robins makes the role of his life in my opinion, and Morgan Freeman is
also great.Just to compare I have recently saw "Escape From Alcatraz", which by
the way was aired in prime time &#61516;, and it's not even close to
this one.Final advice: YOU MUST SEE IT.

******
23 January 2005
10
'The Shawshank Redemption' may be hard to convince somebody to watch,
but it's important to make sure everyone does. A prison movie is not
the way it should be classified because 'The Shawshank Redemption' is a
story about people. It is told through a prison and the idea that would
be a cliché in any other film, hope. So, hope no longer becomes a
cliché because it is realistic in Shawshank. Thus, people and their
motives and environments make films interesting, realistic,
influential, and memorable. And because Frank Darabont found a way to
get all of these elements into the greatest film ever made, people who
see 'The Shawshank Redemption' look at life at a whole new perspective.
That being to "Get busy living, or get busy dying", and to always have
hope.

******
29 December 2004
10
With enough hype and investment, a weak film can top the charts and
break the records. But, ask real people how they feel about this film and you will find a
genuine majority of awe - from a population that found the film by
being told to watch it by the most trusted of authorities - our mates.This film is hope and love, carried in a vehicle of misery, struggle
and achievement.It is relentlessly thought provoking.The soundtrack is as powerful as subtle, and like the film, can summon
tears without warning.The best in this one cannot be read about. Enough said.

******
21 December 2004
10
I don't care what anybody says about this movie, it is simply great. I
watched it for the first time, on a bootleg screener copy, back in
early 1995. I used to get the Academy screeners, and I'd be so excited
that I was getting movies that were still in theaters, that I'd watch
some I normally wouldn't. Shawshank was one of those. Not the type of
movie I would rush to see, but my family had watched it, so I gave it a
shot. I fell in love with this movie after the very first viewing. It's
one of those rare movies that seems to get better, each and every time
you watch it. When I see it on TV, which is quite often, I find that
it's hard to turn the channel. It's such a human movie. Just about
everyone can relate to something in this film. If you can't appreciate
a film like this, I truly feel sorry for you. This is what film-making
is all about.

******
20 December 2004
10
First off, let me say that this was the real best picture of 1994.
Forrest Gump was definitely a great film, Pulp Fiction was a film that
set new standards in film genre, Quiz Show was great although a bit
overrated, and I can't say much about Four Weddings And A Funeral.
Despite the greatness of Pulp and Gump, neither of them matched up to
the greatness of this film.This film starts off with Tim Robbins going to prison over a crime he
didn't even commit. The rest of the story unfolds as he befriends
Morgan Freeman's character. The story is based upon the events during
his stay in Shawshank.When I said that this has everything you could ask for in a movie, I
meant it. This movie has an engrossing story line, some great character
development, awesome acting(you can never go wrong with Freeman),
excellent score and editing, and an ending that will make you glad you
watched the movie. The movie's place in IMDb's top 250 is well
deserved, but the film not earning it's best picture Oscar is beyond
me.

******
20 November 2003
10

Spoiler!!
The philosophical ebbs and flows of The Shawshank Redemption make it the
finest movie of the last ten years. Andy is a ping pong ball of hope and
despair, of assimilation and rejection.  The same is true of Red, but the
philosophical contrast between the two, and the way each is forced to
consider the other's viewpoint, is why this movie's message is so
poignantly
delivered.Andy, in his earliest prison days, is a loner, whose hope that his
nightmarish incarceration will not prove real delays his assimilatation
into
the culture and society of Shawshank.  Ultimately, though, while clinging
to
an inner belief that Shawshank is not home, he realizes that, in
assimilation, lies his only hope of coping with prison life.Contrastingly, Red, a long-term inmate whose once-a-decade parole
rejections
have become a ritual reminder of the fact that he has no hope of getting
out
of prison, has assimilated to the fullest possible extent, and clearly
views
Shawshank as home.Each is frequently exposed to the viewpoint of the other.  Red expresses
concern when Andy dreams of life in Mexico, but Andy takes exception when
Red proclaims himself to be dependent on Shawshank for his livelihood.
Red,
in essence, suggests that Andy accept Shawshank as home.Red is selling despair and assimilation to Andy, but Andy is selling hope
and rejection to Red.  When Andy escapes from Shawshank, Red's chance to
sell Shawshank to Andy evaporates, but it's impossible to tell whether
Andy
has reached Red or not, and it appears that it doesn't really
matter.The brilliant twist toward the end of The Shawshank Redemption is that it
is
the manifestation of his despair to the parole board that results in
Red's
parole.  Even in parole, however, Red finds despair in assimilation, the
same despair that prompted Brooks to commit suicide some years earlier.
Only when he reads the note Andy left for him in the hayfields of Buxton
is
Red presented with a chance to pursue a course of hope and
rejection.Rejection, in this case, means parole violation, and results directly
from
Red's, seemingly unprecedented, hope for a happy life.  When Red acts on
his
impulse and travels to Mexico to, presumably, live out his life alongside
the greatest friend he has ever known, he, finally, buys into Andy's
philosophies about hope, despair, assimilation and rejection.In doing so, he provides a happy ending to a film that may live on
forever
due to the criticality of its subject matter and its masteful delivery of
its message.

******
16 November 2003
10

The Shawshank Redemption is a film about people, which is becoming
increasingly rare these days where movies merely showcase special effects or
action.The film seems slow but that is the point. It must convey the slow passage
of time, as we see Andy and Red lives in the prison. Its a film that makes
us think as well as feel, and that is what makes it truly
great.Tim Robbins' performance is incredible, making Andy out to be a complete
person with real thoughts and feelings. He IS Andy, not simply an actor
going through the motions. He is the film's heart.And That make's Morgan Freeman's Red it's soul. It is his point of view that
carries us through the film, making Andy seem even more mysterious because
he is never quite sure what Andy is up to.A Wonderful film that suceeds on so many levels. A must see for anyone, even
if you don't think you will like a film about prison that is so long and may
seem slow. See it anyway! It earns its place on the top 250 list with heart
and style. We watched it in a sociology class and it is the only movie I
have ever seen that has a climax capible of moving an entire room full of
jaded college students to standing ovation. A true masterpiece!PS: In one of the scenes on the bus (I forget if it is when Brooks or Red
gets out) a woman with short reddish curly hair can be seen (At least in
widescreen) She was my math teacher in high school, and most of the movie
was filmed around my hometown of Mansfield. I just felt like mentioning
this.

******
29 October 2003
10

This is one of the greatest films of the 20th Century,Its a drama, Its a buddy picture, Its a prison movie,
It's strange thinking of The Shawshank Redemption as a buddy picture
though,
especially when you consider that Andy's friend Red is a convicted and an
admitted murderer and yet Red seems so gentle and trustworthy, also the
other guys in Red's group such as Heywood seem nice as well and we dont
even
know what crimes those guys committed but when you watch this movie you
dont
even ask yourself what crimes they committed, you just assume it's
murder.watching the friendships development in this film is really moving,
watching
Red worrying about Andy the night and day after Andy Escapes just proves
that they were more like brothers than friends,The Shawshank Redemption is the only movie I have ever given 10/10 or a
five
star rating out of 5, I first watched this film when I was 14 years old
and
loved it then, im 20 now and I love it even more,
this is my number 1 movie of all time.Perfectly casted, directed and edited.
An American Classic.

******
18 April 2003
10

Many people ask the fatidic question: why does this movie is ranked second
best movie of all time???  But I believe that most of them have miss the
point: we don't love movie because its `cool' or because one is more
`intellectual' or anything else; no, we love movie when they leave to us a
powerful message. So yes, this movie is quit simple, the plot is basic,
the
actors are ok, but not exceptional but the image that stay in your mind at
the end is a message of hope, it shows you that sometimes, in our life,
our
beliefs are more important than anything else; that we must choose the
deepest way to succeed in what we expect to shine, because hope is the
last
thing to die.10/10


******
11 February 2003
7

I finally saw this movie.  I wanted to rent it after seeing this is the
number two favorite movie of all time.  But I could never find it in the
video store or library.  Of all places, I finally saw it on television!
In
the age of predictable plots, I could not predict this movie at all until
the very last few seconds it reveals the events.  We watch movies for the
truth and there are lots in this one.  There are some valuable lessons
here:
never lose hope, always do your best wherever you go, persistence,
persistence.

******
13 April 2002
8

While a successful writer, Stephen King has a bad reputation when it comes
to the film versions of his work. "Children of the Corn" and "Maximum
Overdrive" are some of the most frequently cited examples of how difficult
his stories are to translate to film. Granted, there have been exceptions,
such as "Misery" and "The Green Mile," that have won critical and commercial
acclaim, but these are relatively few and far in-between. As a rule, his
non-horror writings tend to work better on celluloid. Still, no one, not
even King himself, could have predicted the overwhelming praise bestowed
upon "The Shawshank Redemption," helmed by a then-unknown
director.If you're looking for cheap thrills and "boo" moments, you won't find them
here. Unlike Darabont's "Green Mile," there are not even any elements of the
supernatural. The focus is on the relationship between a man wrongfully
imprisoned, and the inmate he befriends. In later scenes, the story takes
some intriguing twists and turns, in classic Stephen King fashion. What
happens I will not reveal, but the screenplay is clever at making everything
come together in the end. Despite the grimness of prison life, all is not
lost. In fact, one marvels at how Andy did such a good job in making the
best of his situation.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman deliver subtle but effective performances,
making everything absolutely believable. Kudos, also, to the fine supporting
performances of Bob Gunton and William Sadler.So far, this is the best Stephen King film I've seen.***1/2 (out of ****)Released by Castle Rock through Columbia Pictures

******
10 July 2001
7

I gave this film a 7 over all.
I think it was very well filmed and acted, but perhaps that's my problem
with it - there's the 'feeling' that you're watching something 'significant'
but the aura it seems to generate seems out of line with the proportion and
events of the story.
But, then that's the magic of cinema, and it _did_ pull the wool over
people's eyes (therefore the 9's and 10's in the poll).I was especially impressed as I'm not a King fan (either on paper or any
film/miniseries adaptations i've seen) and wasn't expecting much from this,
but the narrative and characterisation are fairly strong (again, if out if
sync with the film's "feel")


******
8 June 1999
7

Though I really enjoyed this movie, never would I agree that it is best
film
ever.  It's powerful and full of heart, but it lacks one thing which is
extremely important in a good film: originality.  Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman were excellent in this film but their relationship is much like
the
relationship between Clint Eastwood and the librarian in "Escape From
Alcatraz."  The involvement of the library, the old coon who dies (Doc),
the
brut who is a threat (Wolf), the hole, the oppressive warden, and the
escape
in general all come from "Escape From Alcatraz."  Though "Escape From
Alcatraz" is not as powerful and emotional as "The Shawshank Redemption,"
it
is a brilliantly done film and has the originality which "Shawshank"
lacks.
Though I do not want to belittle those who worship "Shawshank," I would
suggest that anyone who has seen it should rent "Escape From Alcatraz."
Then you may think twice before calling "Shawshank" the greatest film
ever.

******
21 April 1999
5

Frank Darabont's "The Shawshank Redemption" is a film of pretentious
platitudes and obvious intentions.  Based on Stephen  King's short story
"Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption", the film stars Tim Robbins as
Andy Dufresne, a banker wrongly accused of murdering his adulterous wife and
her lover.  Morgan Freeman delivers a much-deserved Academy-Award nominated
performance as the hardened Red, the convict responsible for smuggling
cigarettes into the penitentiary whose genuine depth allows him to form a
friendship with Andy not based on the macho rules of the prison yard (Andy's
demeanor is in face so falsely naive that many of the prisoners bet on him
to be the first under pressure) but on a continuing sense of willpower and
motivation in a place that genuinely lacks the atmosphere for such human
emotions.And yet whereas "The Shawshank Redemption" is in itself an honorable
predilection of prison life and shows an understanding of the human spirit
which is somehow lacking in the more recent prison movies (most notably Tom
Selleck's "An Innocent Man" and Sylvester Stallone's "Lock Up"), the film is
deemed exceptional only by your willingness to surrender to Darabont's
predictable machinations.  Darabont may be a talented screenwriter, and some
of his creations here (such as the character played by William Sadler, who
comes across during an inventory inspection a copy of "The Count of Monte
Cristo" by Alexander...Dumbass) are unmistakeably human, his portrayal of
the Bible-thumping warden (Bob Gunton) cannot resist but to relegate itself
to stereotype. The film's real downfall is in Tim Robbins' performance, who
despite his squeaky-clean cherub face cannot project the inspiration needed
to give this film its realistic element.  And yet this is not a bad movie,
just certainly not the best movie of all time.  Some images of the movie
will continue to stay with me:
the cold-hearted sexual depravity of "the Sisters"; and in the
infamous shot beautifully and rigidly painted by cinematographer Roger
Deakins ("Fargo"), Dufresne basking in a downpour upon entering freedom.
Unfortunately, the film isn't cohesive enough to warrant any more of those
moments.

******
8 March 1999
10

This has to be one of the best, if not the best, movie I have ever seen.
Combining the masterful acting skills of Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman,
Frank Darabont blends empathy with brutal physical and emotional violence to
the best possible effects. The chemistry between Robbins and Freeman is
wonderful, whilst clinical, precise and realistic writing from Stephen King
ensures that this is one of the most worthy candidates for Movie of the
Decade. If you only ever see one movie for the next 10 years, see this
one. 

******
5 March 1999
10

I am happy to know that I am not the only one who thinks this is one of the
best movies of all time. It's my personal favorite. It shows the
determination of a person to live his life. How he works for years on his
escape tunnel. The subplot of the parallel life outside of prison of Brooks
and Freeman's character is excellent. I don't think any part of the movie is
bad, not even avarage. It's perfect from beginning to end. The only probable flaw
I see in it is that it makes criminals look better than they actually are,
but that's the point.

******
3 March 1999
10

In my opinion, it deserves to be in AFI's top 10 of all time. Just one of
those extremely rare movie experiences. The highest compliment I can pay it
is that every movie I have watched since Shawshank has paled in comparison.
I've never been so involved in a movie from beginning to end. And the ending
is so incredible it provides inner joy you can't even express. Gump was very
good and won Oscars because of the hype and $$$ it spent & collected. But,
Shawshank with no special effects or high priced productions provided better
script, plot development, acting and ending than 99.9% of Hollywood films
before and probably after it. Totally under-appreciated
masterpiece.. 

******
2 March 1999
10

It seems as if every movie has something about it that is unbelievable, and
this movie does have one part, but except for that it is a 10 all the way
which is what I rated it.  Excellent story line, acting, drama, humor,
relationships... you name it.  A 10 all the way. 

******
28 January 1999
10

Shawshank really surprised me. I didn't think any prison movie could shape up
to Escape from Alcatraz but this one did! Tim Robbins gives a brilliant
performance and the supporting cast shows no flaws. The ending will leave you
begging for more. I recommend for everyone to see this great
film.

******
8 October 1998
10

This is simply the best movie I have ever come across. It makes you "stick
with the movie" from the beginning to the very last end. Especially the
ending is great, but also the build up to it, the great acting of Tim
Robbins and Morgan Freeman.Definitely a must-see for everyone !!

******
3 October 1998
10

This film is quite simply fantastic, great performances, great storyline,
well directed and produced, my favourite film ever.

******
27 July 2006
5
The Shawshank Redemption is an excellent example of Hollywood
craftsmanship. It has believable acting, excellent pacing, good
cinematography and tells the story in a very effective manner. But it
is film as a craft, not as an art.To put this film in the same category as those of Kubrick, Kurosawa,
Truffaut or Bergman is like comparing a piece of quality furniture to a
Picasso.I doubt even one in a hundred people, who hold this film in such high
regard as to vote it #2, could actually name the director if you asked
them in the street.

******
4 March 2006
10
This Movie, is, with out a doubt. one of the best movies ever made. Tim
Robbins and Morgen Freeman are unforgettable in this classic.Andy Durfrein(Robbins) is a banker and is accused of murdering his
wife. after being sent to jail he ends up in Shawshank. when
Red(freeman) first lays eye's on Andy he knows he is different, and so
is this movie. it is so powerful and unforgettable.although it was released in the same year as other classic's, Forrest
Gump and Pulp Fiction(my fav movie) it is still are masterpiece in its
own right. by far Robbins best performance, it deserves nothing less
than 10/10the Shawshank Redemption is a Must See for any Movie Goer.GO SEE IT!

******
11 February 2004
6

Spoiler!!
How can an overglorified view of prison be so widely accepted. I thought
we
as a movie going audience had got over the romance of films such as escape
from alcatraz. Its the same film. Shy white guy befriends black guy. White
guy escapes. Black guy is happy. Everyone who voted high for this should
watch Animal Factory by Steve Buscemi. It isnt a great film but it offers
a
far more powerful realistic look into penitentiary life than Shawshank.
kev

******
27 May 2003
7

I like "The Shawshank Redemption," but cannot understand why it is rated
so
highly.  While it's well-acted, the direction is pedestrian, and the
story
is derivative.While it should be somewhere in the top 250, rating it above movies like
"Citizen Kane," "Lawrence of Arabia," "The Seven Samurai," "Chinatown,"
"Memento," etc. strikes me as ludicrous.

******
3 March 2003
6

My impression is that since the early ninenties and especially  after
"green
fried tomatoes" was released movies regarding human relations and/or
tragedy
and using narative as their spine became fashionable..Countless movies
followed that i dont care to mention most of them inferior than the
original
they tried to follow and one of them is Shawshank redemption.Sure it is
not
a mellow love story but about life in prison that is objectively hard.But
somehow the typical ingredients are there.The film is mostly sad and
melodramatic and one can even consider it romantic in a way.Despite its
strong cast and a good storyline it does not avoid all these
characteristic
cliches that sadly deprive it from any real replay value.Rent it on dvd
and
you wont be disapointed by viewing it but the second best movie of all
times
it aint and you will know this because you wont feel the need to watch it
now and then as it happens at least to me  with movies that are really
classics...Not a bad movie but highly overrated....3 out of five
stars.

******
16 November 2001
6

Perfectly fine yarn, but those who are ranking it among the all-time
greatest movies need to see some more flicks. The cliches are
pretty heavy at times, and the moral of the story seems to be
freedom _isn't_ a mental state, after all.

******
31 August 2000
6
This movie is a fine way to spend 140 minutes, but is by no means a
movie of the first rank. The script is far too simplistic,
cliché-ridden and predictable. The characters are far too good guy/bad
guy dualistic; and for a story purporting to take place over the course
of 20 years, there is remarkably little character development. And,
just about every really evil character gets his comeuppance, whereas
the people we're supposed to be rooting for end up in clover. Hmmmm....Among prison movies, Cool Hand Luke is better--more realistic, and
without the obligatory Hollywood feel-good ending. Runaway Train and
Papillon are also very good, certainly more interesting. Among
inspirational movies, last year's October Sky is a better bet.In a nutshell: tremendously overrated, but certainly worth seeing.

******
22 July 2000
6

The evangelical adoration this film has earned is lost on me.  Like so many
popular films of recent years, "Shawshank" is an obvious, cliche-riddled
epic that's won fans because it plays it safe.  Characters are either
saintly or satanic.  There's no room for shades of gray.  Sure its
sumptuously filmed.  A $50 million budget can do that.  Add the always solid
Morgan Freeman, a paper-thin moral about hope, and you've got a film longing
to be loved.  Obviously, plenty of people do.But compared to Freeman, Tim Robbins' vanilla performance as the
long-suffering innocent (dare I say Christ-like) man trapped in purgatory
comes off bland.  Clancy Brown as the sadistic prison guard is the worst
cliche of the all.  When you toss in the obligatory prison rapes, the
corrupt warden, and James Whitmore (who is very good) as the veteran inmate
unprepared for life outside the institution, you've got a predictable film
that only snaps to life near its plot-holed conclusion.   Worse of all, Frank Darabont directs the works at half-speed. This is a
painfully overlong concoction.In time, "The Shawshank Redemption" will be regarded as a well-crafted but
shallow prison film.  

******
24 July 1999
6

Cannot see why this film is rated so highly.  Sure, its watchable and
nicely
inoffensive, but its not really about much, and nothing really happens.
Just a film about a bloke going to prison.  Somewhere along the line I
think
I must have missed something, because I can think of at least a hundred
better films.  Saying that, Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are flawless,
though the latter's best film will always be the Hudsucker Proxy.  (Which
incidentally is a better film.)

******
17 May 1999
10

The acting is top-notch, the dialogue is superb, and even the
cinematography
only serves to highlight the first two.  This movie never fails to bring a
tear to my eye.  The tears start about 10 minutes before the ending in
anticipation.  I've never used this word to describe a movie before, but
it
is beautiful.

******
31 March 1999
10

Towards the end, dealing with Freeman's loneliness, I felt how he was
feeling. These are believable criminals. People say these guys are too nice
to be hard-core criminals, but people make mistakes. The guys' mistakes
were on a big-time scale. One line will remain with me forever
: 
Get busy livin, or get busy dying.Well, Get busy watching or get busy goin';

******
21 March 1999
10

So there I was, relaxing one Sunday evening in front of the TV.  Suddenly an
advert for "The Shawshank Redemption" appeared - it was on in an hour on
Channel 4 (fourth out of five for you non-Brits).  I thought, "Hey, I
remember that film.  It's number one in the IMDB ratings."  I always
wondered why - I remember watching it a few years ago and thinking it was
pretty good.  So I thought I would sit myself down and watch the thing
properly...  Thank God I did.  That film is absolutely fantastic.  I sat
rivetted for the full two and bit hours of it.  The sheer complexity of the
plot, the twists, the character development.  The ending.  You can sort of
understand why it got nominated for so many Oscars.  As I mentioned earlier
I always wondered why this film seems to have spent most of its time at the
top of the IMDB chart - not Star Wars, the Godfather, Citizen Kane even.
Now I know.  I suppose most of the people who have read this far would know
how good this film is - but if not, here's my advice.  Watch this
film!

******
9 August 2008
6
Many folk rate Shawshank Redemption as one of the best films they have
ever seen. I'm not so impressed. Firstly, I agree that the absence of
special effects is a boon in any 1990s film. Secondly, Freeman and
Robbins act well and are well-directed. The storyline, though, lacks
subtlety (not in the telling - this is a very well directed film - but
as a story) and Dufesne comes over as a kind of everything-he-touches,
incarcerated upper-middle class Forrest Gump. The film is suffused with
a kind of Manichean morality which tips over too readily into
sentimentality (again, despite the best efforts of Freeman and Robbins)
and which, ultimately, I found cloying.Perhaps, though, I'm being too harsh. Is it just that the film is a lot
better than the story from which it is taken? Rita Hayworth: eat your
heart out?

******
9 November 2007
6
The story's quite plain, the acting is OK but nothing really over the
top, even though the soundtrack, the quality of the shots and the
atmosphere really stood out! I think it's for obvious sentimental
reasons that people like this movie! The good guy takes a lot of crap
but wins in the end because he's smart!! There are way better movies
than this one and I really can't understand why so many people rate it
10!! 10 equals perfection and very few pieces of art come close to it!!
I think 7 is a very high rating and this movie probably doesn't deserve
more than an 8 maximum!! The masses don't necessarily appreciate subtle
art and want to be entertained, that's what the movie industry is
about! Still, this movie was quite gay! Way too much emo and way to
predictable!

******
8 November 2007
4
Shawshank Redemption is a story of, well, Redemption. Just like any
film from Quentin Tarantino, but with an extra dose of melodrama.
Orchestral music to drive you to tears, overly dramatic dialog, and
plot twists that come so far out of left field even M. Night Shylamalan
would cringe. You just have a hard time seeing them, because the movie
is relatively laid back.Which is the best part of the film. It slows down whenever it needs to
take its time. It's the story of two prisoners who bond over. One is a
wrongfully accused man hoping to find a way out. One is a man who has
given up all hope. And random acts of kindness help them earn their
redemption.See, it's about Redemption. It's in the title. No use thinking about
the theme. Morgan Freeman is perfectly cast in this film, and gives one
of the best performances in his life. But every one of his lines is not
the line of a prisoner, but somebody who has been paid to pretend to be
a prisoner.The movie lacks any sense of reality, from the poorly supervised chain
gang, to the subplot of the sinister warden, and even down to the fact
that a man is allowed to keep a tool made for chipping away rocks in
his cell.The film would have worked as a stage play easily. Because we expect
this detachment from reality. But this film likes to pretend this is
reality. The film also likes to make conclusive statements, and then
immediately retract them.This movie has a heart. It spills out all over the screen while we
watch the characters monologue, getting to the point of the movie over
and over again. Long movies never bothered me. On the contrary, I think
it's a shame four hour movies never get released these days. Still,
when it's two and a half hours plus of monologues reiterating the same
plot point, it's two and a half hours too much.

******
31 October 2003
6

I cannot believe that this movie has rec'd the accolades it has. I thought
was mediocre at best and at worst saccharin, predictable, neatly cathartic
and only mildly believable. I think that if it didn't contain the rape
scenes, it would have been so sweet that I would have turned it off before I
regurgitated. This is not to say that I enjoyed those scenes - I didn't -
but it appeared that it was Frank Darabont's sophomoric attempt at
instilling some sense of prison reality into an otherwise boring story about
male bounding. I personally would not recommend this movie to
anyone.


******
17 January 2002
6

having this movie in your top ten best films of all time is like saying
the
greatest pieces of art ever painted are the ones they put on hotel walls.
Maybe this is true in a sort of egalitarian, democratic and mind-numbingly
banal way. A thoroughly ordinary film, that has been embraced by men who
want to cry, have faith, and have equilibrium. Which is
nice.

******
8 July 2000
6

I hadn't seen this film until today and I never would have rented it if I
hadn't seen that it was so high up on the top 250. It wouldn't have been a
great loss. It's a pretty good movie, but a bit sappy for my taste. Gives
you lots of warm feelings inside about persistence through adversity, hope,
friendship and all that good stuff. If you're into that, it is very well
put
together and it features some good acting and a beautiful score. Oh, and --
this could be considered a SPOILER given that it's a prison movie -- the
ending is so nice and so predictable and so cute and so corny, it just
hurts. Art, it is not.

******
2 August 1999
5

The good points of this movie have already been stated in the other posts,
so I will stick to the points I feel detracted from the
movie.
This movie never gripped me, I never really felt all that emotionally
involved with the characters.  Even though 19 years passed in the story, I
never got the sense of time passing as I have in other movies that have
storylines that span decades.  All the characters who weren't prisoners were
very one-dimensional.  Overall, it was a pretty good movie, but I don't
think it belongs in the top 250.

******
30 October 2000
6

Ok, so this isn't exactly a bad film, but it's extremely hard to see why it
holds the no.2 position in the top 250 films. The acting is fine, the twist
is gratifying (if a little predictable) and some of the shots are
fantastic.
However, the film is let down by unrealistic dialogue, especially on the
part of Freeman's character, who does not seem able to construct a sentence
without using a string of metaphors and similes.The prison warder is a one-dimensional villain with very little allure -
we,
the viewers, are not credited with much intelligence. Because he is a
villain, it therefore follows that he must a be a Nazi, no? Cue references
to book-burning etc. Furthermore, the portrayal of Tim Robbins' character
as
Christ is slightly offensive (check out the shot in which he is shown with
his arms thrown up to heaven).In true Hollywood style, there seems to be about five 'endings' - when we
think that the excitement (or otherwise) is over, another sequence is
tagged
onto the end. Despite some fairly violent scenes, life inside Shawshank
seems actually rather appealing - a library, plenty of time outside the
cells. This, combined with the film's massive length, means that for my
mind, The Shawshank Redemption merits only a 6/10.


******
24 March 2002
6

Have watched the thing twice and frankly I still don't have a clue what
the
fuss is all about. There's hardly anything special about the movie, let
alone breathtaking, intriguing or groundbreaking. The beginning is
somewhat
promising, but pretty soon it all gets painfully predictable right down to
the moment the credits start rolling. The narrative is way too often
overdrawn and phoney, the music - heavily pretentious and irritating. The
performances are not bad, but let's face it - the script is far from
demanding. The storytelling is overwhelmingly fairytale-ish and even the
drastic bits seem oddly out of the place, as if thrown in to make the
thing
feel more dramatic. Words keep flowing in abundance, soothingly creating
the
impression of a nap story told by a lit fireplace. Having recently watched
the ingenious "The Straight Story" I was astonished to see how much damage
may be done to a picture by putting in too much talk.All that is not to say the movie is appaling. However, an inch above
average
is as good as it gets. Both "Midnight Express" and "Escape From Alcatraz"
beat the weepy Shawshank experience hands down. 6/10.


******
20 March 2002
6

Originally, I wrote a very long review of Shawshank Redemption,
but i've decided not to post it.  Instead i'd just like to say that i
would
compare the movie to a poem that i wrote in 5th grade.  i'm not
going to write the poem out because i don't have it with me right
now, but it had to do with rainbows and waterfalls and following
your dreams.
In other words, it was complete b.s. I just wrote what i
thought were some typical poetic themes and threw them together,
hoping people would like it.  My plan succeeded, the teacher
thought it was the best in the class, and it got published in the
school newspaper.
Seems like the director of The Shawshank Redemption,
Frank Darabont, and the writer of the book, Stephen King, did the
same thing.  The movie is technically well made and does
succeed at telling the story.  I admit that I got caught up in the
ending.  But no matter how much you try to defend it, it's still pure
Hollywood.  Cliche here and there.  I recognize this for what it is:  a
director's attempt to manipulate people's emotions, which, due to
a large amount of naivite in the world, succeeds.  He did the same
thing with The Green Mile with more success.  Now, with The
Majestic, I am glad to see that it seems that most reviewers and
many moviegoers have recognized this, and given it generally
lower reviews than his first two films.  Finally!  Now I only hope
people will start to give Shawshank lower ratings and get it down
from the heights of the top 250 list.

******
21 April 1999
6

I quite like this film but it wouldn't make my top 100. The idea it's the
greatest film in history is laughable.Of course the acting's terrific. Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are solid
as
ever, even if Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown (the Baddies) chew the scenery.
And that's the problem - everything is so terribly black and white, with
every character springing straight out of a three word summary. Our hero
is
Good But Flawed, Red is Good And Noble, the Warden is Just Plain Bad and
his
henchman is Reminiscent Of Another Film (okay, four words).I've never been inside a prison, but I can't believe all the prisoners
would
be so damn nice. There's the "sisters" - a bunch of horrid rapists, of
course, but they're nothing a small plot contrivance can't eliminate. The
"sisters" aside, there's nary a cross word from a prisoner in the whole
film.Racism is also curiously absent. American prisons today are notorious
hot-beds of racism. Martin Luther King's dream is bizarrely alive and well
in Shawshank, where colour doesn't get a mention in twenty years of
"history".This total lack of realism means it's not really a film about prison at
all.
And
what kind of "character" film can be centred around someone who seems
entirely flawless (other than perhaps in his choice of
attorney).I can whinge about the mechanics of the film as well. Voiceover narration
is
irritating enough - but Red narrating events at which he was not present?
Pur-lease. And that final scene - talk about a director who didn't know
when
to shout "cut". It didn't need much self control to stop at the point Red
heads towards Mexico - films for grown-ups shouldn't need endings that
resolve any uncertainty.Speaking of the director, isn't it odd how the maker of the "Greatest film
in the world ever" is also credited for The Fan, Eraser, The Blob and The
Fly II? It's as if Orson Welles directed "Plan 9 from Outer Space", or
Francis Ford Copolla helmed "Megaforce".I don't mean to make this out to be a bad film - it's far from that. But
anyone who rates it the greatest ever should try "Godfather",
"Goodfellas",
"Citizen Kane", "Casablanca" - something, anything that's not so *worthy*.


******
1 July 2005
10
"The Shawshank Redemption" should have won Best Picture for 1994. A
story of banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) getting falsely convicted
of murder and sent to the hellish Shawshank prison, the movie is beyond
amazing. In prison, Andy meets Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding (Morgan
Freeman), who was imprisoned many years earlier. Red gets Andy a poster
of Rita Hayworth. Over the next twenty years, Andy experiences all the
horrors that one would expect in jail: beatings by the guards, rapes by
other inmates, and so on. But he never gives up hope.This movie, like "Carrie", "The Shining", "Dolores Claiborne", "The
Green Mile" and "Hearts in Atlantis", just goes to show what a great
author Stephen King is. When we think of horror, we think of spooky
horror, but "The Shawshank Redemption" is a different kind: personal
horror. Pure genius. I can only hope that in the coming years, this
movie is recognized as what it is: a masterpiece. I can't believe that
it won no Oscars!

******
6 August 2002
6

(slight spoilers, nothing crucial) This is a competent movie, but its presence in the rankings completely
baffles me -- it might as well be 'The Pelican Brief'. Its scenes are schematics into which emotion might be put (for example, the
schematic of the despairing ex-prisoner Red), but they lack the ragged
richness of real feeling.  Where 'Kiss of the Spider Woman' overwhelms us,
this shows us a series of events.


******
29 January 2000
7

I found this movie to be rather trivial and predictable.  It was, in many
ways, a Forrest Gump version of a prison movie.  It had a manipulative and
superficial plotline, and the leading character was too good to be true.
It
never dealt deeply with any issue at all.  Basically, you liked the leading
character because he was perfect, and cheered him on and hoped for his
success, just like Forrest Gump.  However, unlike Forrest Gump, I could
never see the true emotion of the Tim Robbins character.  He didn't like
being sexually assaulted, but we never saw how that affected him; he didn't
drink but got beers for his friends.  He finds pleasure out of the simple
things and doesn't like unpleasurable things.  He turned out to be a
perfect
character with no negative qualities at all.  Maybe he's this way for a
reason; people can relate to him because they like to think of themselves
being completely perfect and think they would make every right decision if
they were in a situation like this.In many senses, this was just a morality play, with Andy Dufresne being
entirely good and all the prison officials being completely bad.  I think
the only reason why people enjoy this movie so much is that it has the
message "Good things come to those that try and do good with their lives."
However, I didn't think the movie had enough substance to offer any deeper
meaning or insight.  The best thing about this movie was it made me realize
how great of a movie Forrest Gump is and how great of an actor Tom Hanks
is.
He made the Forrest Gump character seem to have a fully round personality
and allowed us to understand who he was.  He seemed possible.  Andy seems
unlikely and not relatable because we never see any reasoning behind his
personality.This movie moves people because it is a heroic fable.  It's not a worthless
movie experience, but it should have done more with what it already had.
To the people that think this is the greatest movie ever made...spare me.
My rating 4/10.

******
11 February 2002
6

I can't say much more than I was incredibly underwhelmed by this film.
Perhaps it was that I had been told what a great film it was by all and
sundry, but I found it utterly average.  I am afraid I just didn't get
what
was so fantastic about the movie.  Don't get me wrong it was an
entertaining
film but not the masterpiece I was lead to believe it was.
Sorry.

******
18 August 2002
7

Sure it was a good prison movie, and much better than many other movies
I've
seen.  But this does NOT beat Godfather, Star Wars, or Casablanca in any
way.  Watch this if you enjoy good performances and good plot, but don't
expect a present-day classic ala Forrest Gump.  

******
1 March 2016
1
Okay the whole thing is nothing but masturbation noises on a loop for a
whopping 10 hours. I seriously don't get why people think this is so
good. Is there a hidden message? It must have flown past my head
somehow. Like I have no idea how. It just did. This film is so
ubiquitous that I couldn't not watch it at least once, and unless there
happens to be some Freddy freeloader Esq hidden message throughout this
whole film I just do not care for it a single bit. There I was, five
years old waiting for my first Linux swirlie; okay, I hate to go on a
tirade right now (bisquick is broiling) but I am tuckered like
Smucker's, my dad said that if I say that I will be cool. So I guess
you need at least 7.765474 GIFs to be a snarks rapscallion egghead
nuisance . Is this the end> Let me know at my email
scaldinghotiron99@gmail.com thanks

******
15 December 2015
7
i've been seeing this movie as the number one everywhere but I
personally don't think it deserves a 9.3 or the best titles in the
world. I think it's very average. Morgan Freeman is good in every
movie. I loved his acting here as well. the movie has a good story
overall and i loved the ending and the philosophy. Although i watched
it a long time ago, i cant remember all of it. i will try to watch it
once more to refresh my memory and hopefully i can come up with
something good to write about this movie. or maybe it's my choice of
genre. i would personally rate this movie a 7.5 out of 10 and
definitely not a 9 or a 10. thank you :)

******
18 August 2015
7
think every generation has their films that they can relate to. My
generation related to films like Breakfast Club, Pretty In Pink and
Fasstimes at Ridgemont High. Not to say that these films cannot make an
impression on today's youth, because I'm sure that they can, but they
were definitely films that appealed to kids my age in the 80's.
Napolean Dynamite is a film that, in my opinion, is much more of a film
that appeals to today's youth. Napolean is a slacker and just wants to
be left alone. He has his circle of friends but for the most part, as
the poster says, he is out to prove that he has nothing to prove. The
film is humorous in some parts, pedestrian in others and overall it is
a film that for someone like me ( 33 years old ), it probably doesn't
work as well as it does for someone who is in high school. I know many
kids that enjoyed this film and most of it was because of Jon Heder. He
embodies the very spirit of Napolean Dynamite and even though I found
the film to quite average, I have to admit that even I enjoyed Heder's
performance. He obviously has a bright future ahead of him with a total
of 7 films to his credit in the next two years.

******
6 August 2015
10
The year 1994 was an time of epic movies in the cinema such as; Léon,
Forrest Gump and Pulp fiction and The Shawshank Redemption.The Shawshank Redemption is a movie that's enchants you from the start
to the end.You really get connection with the characters and you root for them
through the whole movie.It shows us the unique bond between two strangers that's really
affects.It's not hard to see why it's been ranked as number one of the IMDb
members.I have seen the movie 15-20 times and every time after the movie it has
left me with the feeling of having seen an great movie.I wouldn't be surprised if it would dominate the cinemas if it would
been released today.My opinion is that Shawshank Redemption is without questioning the best
film today even though all those new films created today and that we
consider great.That being said, this is an must for all movie lovers to watch. It
really affects you right into your soul.The movie is quite long but as they say time flies when you're having a
good time.If you haven't seen it, please do. But I suggest that you keep an open
mind and don't have to high expectations since it is after all the
number one ranked movie.

******
3 August 2015
10
This film is really great.Life expectancy and perseverance in the
beautifully illustrated. Very much enjoyed seeing the film. This film
is really great. And life expectancy and perseverance in the
beautifully illustrated. Very much enjoyed seeing the film. This film
is really great. And life expectancy and perseverance in the
beautifully illustrated. Very much enjoyed seeing the film. This film
is really great. And life expectancy and perseverance in the
beautifully illustrated. Very much enjoyed seeing the film. This film
is really great. And life expectancy and perseverance in the
beautifully illustrated. Very much enjoyed seeing the film.

******
2 August 2015
9
I decided to watch this movie when I saw it on the top of IMDb list.
and even tho there are many great movies this is kind of movie which
would be liked by majority of the world. This is an amazing story about a man during his long-term imprisonment.
Morgan Freeman is undoubtedly a great actor and we find him as a
supporting actor has been really trendy culture in the modern cinema.The movie has a really great plot, full of interesting dialogues you
need to pause if you blink your eye. It really sticks to your chair.I think this is my favorite movie so far as well. I just gave 9 out of
10 because I hardly give 10/10 to anything in my life cuz there is
always room for improvement.

******
30 July 2015
10
When I heard that this movie bombed at the box office during its
theatrical run, I was very surprised as this is simply an all time
classic. Rarely is narration in a movie been done as well as this,
Morgan Freeman simply becomes Ellis Redding whose depiction of a
hardened con who has accepted that he may never get out and goes
through his parole hearings not caring about the outcome. Tim Robbins
becomes Andy Dufresne and his portrayal of a man who is really out of
his depth and his element, and finding adjusting to life on the inside
difficult, almost impossible. The changing relationship between the two
characters from initial hostility to deep almost brother like
friendship is captivating. Clancy Brown's depiction of the tyrannical
Captain Baron Hadley is amazing and likewise Bob Gunton as the
hypocritical bible bashing, Warden Norton. The other characters like
wise are also well done, especially Brooks and sadistic inmate Boggs.
The depiction is what you'd expect from a prison movie and while
depicting a life of boring monotony and routine show occasionally
punctuated by brief moments of excitement is still fascinating thanks
to the soundtrack and of course Morgan Freeman's narration, and I don't
want to spoil the ending but it climaxes perfectly with not a dry eye
in sight, thanks to the pacing, and the dialogue can't be faulted. Now
in regard to the differences from the book, these are for the most part
minor and if anything enhance the story rather than hinder it, a
rarity. In summary this is a must watch for all movie lovers.

******
30 July 2015
8
The Shawshank Redemption is a fine and heartwarming tale that holds up
after over 20 years. The film is about a man named Andy Dufresne
(played by Tim Robbins) who is sentenced to prison after it is ruled he
killed his wife. In my mind, The Shawshank Redemption is one of the
best "feel good" movies because it is not afraid to present darker
themes (suicide, rape, corruption, etc.) and explore the brutality of
prison life. But by presenting such a low for the main characters, the
audience feels more when the heroes succeed in the end. I feel that
Andy is a character most people can empathize, which is critical for a
movie of this type. In conclusion, The Shawshank Redemption is a solid
film that leaves a good feeling with the viewer, even after the credits
roll.

******
30 July 2015
10
The Shawshank Redemption will always be one of my favorite movies, of
all time. The way that this movie is put together, start to end, is
magnificent. The plot in this movie is not something that we can all
relate to, but then again, the underlying message is something every
person can relate to. This movie can make you feel sadness, happiness,
excitement, thrill, sorrow and can make you feel uplifted in a way that
not many movies can. The acting in The Shawshank Redemption is
absolutely amazing and the way Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman captures
the two main characters Andy and Red is outstanding. If you ever sit
around and wonder what movie to watch. Then watch this. I promise that
you will not regret it!

******
17 June 2015
5
This film is popular with sports stars. You will find it chosen as the
favorite film on sports stars playing cards from Baseball to Hockey to
Golf to Rugby League. If you have any sports cards without this listed
as a favorite film it's rare! You should probably keep it, encase it in
plastic as it would probably be worth something in the not too distant
future. It's a film about a guy who is about to die and he talks to Tom Hanks
about this. Tom's acting is pretty plastic he morphs into the character
like Bruce Lee's water speech. I've seen this on VHS, DVD and MPEG-4.
If you have this on any of these I recommend watching them.

******
6 November 2014
10
Two imprisoned men (Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman) bond over a number
of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common
decency.Is this the greatest film of all time? IMDb would have you believe so.
Despite being a box office flop (that barely recouped its budget), the
film received multiple award nominations and outstanding reviews from
critics for its acting, story, and realism. It has since been
successful on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.And it deserves this praise that seems to be growing each year. Now
twenty years old, the film has not aged a day, and instead seems to be
getting better. This is Tim Robbins' best role, and a fine performance
from the always wonderful Morgan Freeman.

******
11 September 2014
10
I watched this movie when I'm in college,it should be 9 years ago.
There's not so much fun in college,so when weekends come,some student
will rent a movie CD and broadcast in classroom. One day my roommate
and I are passing a classroom,find there's a movie on,we went in. In
the beginning,we found it boring,but with the story moving on,we forgot
to go back and obsessed by the story.After it ended,we asked the student who broadcast this CD which movie
is it,and then came the name...The story is so encouragement，full of positive,it teaches me that don't
give up on what you want,and insist,try your best.You have to work hard for what you really want,and should never be
defeated。

******
15 November 2013
10
i my opinion this movie have the philosophic vision of how the human
psychology how could be in the prison and how it have a power of escape
my opinion this movie have the philosophic vision of how the human
psychology how could be in the prison and how it have a power of escape
my opinion this movie have the philosophic vision of how the human
psychology how could be in the prison and how it have a power of escape
my opinion this movie have the philosophic vision of how the human
psychology how could be in the prison and how it have a power of escape
my opinion this movie have the philosophic vision of how the human
psychology how could be in the prison and how it have a power of escape
my opinion this movie have the philosophic vision of how the human
psychology how could be in the prison and how it have a power of escape
my opinion this movie have the philosophic vision of how the human
psychology how could be in the prison and how it have a power of escape

******
8 September 2013
4
I don't know about the other viewers but I personally think this is one
of the greatest movies ever made.I usually don't have a great taste in
movies and I really enjoy watching chick flicks and I get bored of
watching some movies that actually have very good ratings on this
site,but I think that if,me,a person with the worst taste in movies
ever liked this,then its a very great movie.I enjoyed it a lot and I
didn't get bored at all...for the first time ever. I think everyone
should watch this movie. But am I the only one here who thinks that the
rating for this movie on this site is kinda low?I think it should be a
little higher...just saying. Anyways bottom line if you haven't watched
this movie yet, you are wasting your life.So buy it and watch it.
That's all folks ;)

******
22 July 2013
10
I came here just to write review for my profile, I didn't watch this
movie, but it has a highest rank so I vote it with 10 (excellent) I
must have minimum 10 lines so I typing this just to enlarge my text,
you don't have to read this because it's stupid, and I'm gonna just
copy all of this text and paste it. I came here just to write review
for my profile, I didn't watch this movie, but it has a highest rank so
I vote it with 10 (excellent) I must have minimum 10 lines so I typing
this just to enlarge my text, you don't have to read this because it's
stupid, and I'm gonna just copy all of this text and paste it. I came
here just to write review for my profile, I didn't watch this movie,
but it has a highest rank so I vote it with 10 (excellent) I must have
minimum 10 lines so I typing this just to enlarge my text, you don't
have to read this because it's stupid, and I'm gonna just copy all of
this text and paste it.

******
29 July 2011
5
This the most overrated movie I have seen, how this movie is number 1
on IMDb is beyond me. Now this movie isn't bad it's just that the movie
is so over rated that there are movies not in the top 250(Jurassic
Park) that I'd rather watch than this. And that are more ground
breaking than this movie was. Now the best part of this movie in my
opinion is Morgan Freeman he is just SUCH a talented actor in the
position he plays in this movie. He is the main reason I watched this
movie. This is not Morgan's best movie but certainly not his worst. The
reason I gave this a 7 is how over rated it is. I'm not saying I hate
this movie, which I don't, I'm just shocked at the fact that its number
1?! There are a lot more movies out there that deserve more credit than
this film.

******
19 August 2009
6
I rated this movie a 6 mainly because not only is this based on a
Stephen King novel, but it is also IMDb's No.1 rated movie! I had very
high expectations and presented this movie to watch with friends during
our "movie night". I have to be honest, my high expectations did lead
to a slight disappointment.I feel the movie was quite slow paced, it is about 2 and a quarter
hours long and I felt a few parts could have been cut. The acting was
definitely excellent, Morgan Freeman delivers his best all the time and
the storyline and plot were very clear. One main thing though is that I
don't understand how almost everyone is rating this a 10/10 when I feel
there are many more movies probably more deserving? Could be classified
as a good movie, a really good movie but certainly not a great movie.

******
14 March 2009
9
The Shawshank Redemption is an academy-award nominated 1994 film
starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.It was based on a short novella
by Stephen King entitled "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption",
which was featured in the collection entitled "Different Seasons".This
novella collection also includes the novellas which were later made
into the movies "Apt Pupil" and "Stand By Me".Stephen King is actually
my favorite author and I really enjoyed the novella.Now for the movie.I
watched it a few months ago and I found that it was very good.The
acting is superb, Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are great, the
storyline, characters etc were all great.It is a great movie.However it
definitely does not deserve to be #1 on IMDb's Top 250 movie list or
any top movie list for that matter.I liked the novella a bit more
though there were some changes in the film that I liked better.The film
is directed by Frank Darabont who would later make the amazing and
superior(in my opinion) "The Green Mile".Overall, Shawshank is
definitely one of the best prison movies of all time, though it is a
tad overrated.

******
24 September 2007
10
One of my personal best films of all time, Directed by Frank Darabont
(Screenplay for The Green Mile and The Blob) and wrote by Stephen King
(Misery/The Shining). Morgan Freeman (Along Came A Spider/Se7en) plays
an amazing roll alongside Tim Robbins (War of the Worlds/mystic river),
as 2 inmates both serving life sentences at Shawshank Prison set in the
1940s. I love the film from beginning to end. It has tension and
suspense all the way through which builds up to one of the best endings
which you could possibly imagine,it has everything a decent film should
have. Bob Gunton (Broken Arrow/Demolition Man) plays a tough prison
warden alongside Clancy Brown (Starship Troopers/The Hurricane). I have
not added anything to this review which may spoil the film in any way,
it is merely a review of my own, personal opinion, but i can tell you
that you will not be disappointed with the film. thanks for reading,
hope you enjoy the film has much as i did.

******
21 September 2007
10
THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION has been hyped about for as long as since it
came out. I was aware it was a great movie but to experience it is
another, great experience.Andy Dufresne, a young New England banker has been accused of the
murder of his wife and her lover, Mr. Quentin. He is given two life
sentences to serve at Shawshank State Prison. Andy learns how to get
about his new life and serves through some tough experiences like being
the sexual delight of a homosexual inmate. Despite this, he meets Ellis
or also known as Red. Their friendship goes beyond simple friends.
Their insecurities and their desire for hope is what is what makes the
great, great ending to the story. It's inspiring and also extremely
entertaining.The movie, although a modern masterpiece, may not be suitable for
children who aren't in their teens due to some prison elements. Around
12 with parental guidance should be fine. Parents, once your kids are
this age or older, this movie will have them talking about the values
of life for a long time.

******
15 September 2007
10
I just saw this movie for the first time. My daughter watched it first
when she was 12 when it first came out. She went on and on about it
saying how great it was then in about 1995. She also loved "Trading
Places". I guess the moral of both of these stories is that the good
guys win in the end. I now know what she was talking about. It is a
great movie, and I can see why it appeals to women.The movie is set in a prison, with the time old tradition of a close
friendship over many years of an innocent young man as the hero and an
"old lag" who knows all the ropes, in this case Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman. This is the same formula earlier used in the films "The Count
of Monte Cristo" and "An Innocent Man", both films which are highly
recommended, if you liked this one.The film, although made in 1994, goes back to a time when good wins out
over evil. unfortunately the fashion for a long time in the nineties
movies was for bad to win out, as in "the Terminator" and other movies.
The bad guys are as usual the prison boss, The Warder and his Second in
Command, the Uniformed Chief Officer. There is a highly unusual twist
at the end of the movie, in which the good guys win out. This is a
highly improbable situation, but fantasy is allowable in movies. One
character of note is that of an old man, played by James Whitmore, who
rescues a tiny bird, and nurtures it for years. Thank goodness it
doesn't get killed by some other evil person, as usually happens. The
old man has to cope with pressures in the outside after he is released.The overarching theme of the movie is one of hope. No matter how bad
things get, there is always hope that thing will get better. It also
shows that it is possible to have a friendship between black and white
people, as the older man, the main character's friend, is a black man.
The thing that this movie gave me, is that I can see how wise my
daughter already was at 12 years of age, and more importantly, it gives
hope and a good philosophy for the rest of my life. I'm sure that it
will do the same for those of you who see this movie too.I am unsure as to whether it deserves to be rated the best movie of all
time. However movies with hope and goodness as their main themes are
generally up there, take "Gone With the Wind", "Schindler's List" and
"Lord of the Rings" as examples of this.

******
10 September 2007
10
Back in high school, I had an English class where we read the short
story by Stephen King and then watched the movie. The short story is
wonderfully to read by itself. However, the movie manages to both
perfectly capture the whole feel and atmosphere of the original story,
and improve upon it. It is rare for a movie to be better than the book,
yet everyone agreed it was so. In the movie, many of the characters are
more developed, and the warden is made much more crooked. Much of the
narration is directly from the short story, but the parts that are not
blend perfectly. It is a long movie, with little action and no special
effects, yet it is always mesmerizing and beautiful, a movie about
hope, with an incredible surprise ending. I still feel cheated because
I read the story first and knew the ending before I ever saw the movie.

******
7 September 2007
9
The Shawshank Redemption is based on a story by Stephen King, but if
you know what King usually writes about, you will be totally surprised
by this film. There are no monsters or creepy crawlies at all. No,
instead we are given a story about prison life that involves our two
central characters, Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) and Ellis Boyd "Red"
Redding (Morgan Freeman), both of whom are convicted of multiple life
sentences in Shawshank Prison.Andy is a banker whose life is turned upside down when he is convicted
of murdering both his wife and her lover. Sentenced to 2 life prisons,
Andy does his best to survive by using his skills as a banker and
accountant to move up in the prison world. He soon gains respect from
his fellow inmates, especially Red, and not long after both he and Red
become good friends. I was never sure what Red was imprisoned for, and
though the story is mainly about Andy, Red's role is just as important.
Kudos to Morgan Freeman, who gives one of his best performances ever.The movie is well over two hours long, but I was never bored. Frank
Darabont, the director and writer of the screenplay, keeps things
interesting throughout. The pacing is perfect, and the actors, all of
them, kept me engaged in the story. The movie also has some twists and
turns which when finally revealed are perfect and add to the film's
excitement.The dialog is one of the most important aspects of the film and one of
the films strongest points. We may have never learned much about the
prison guards or the warden, but we got enough of an idea about them to
be satisfied because of the dialog and because of the actors who played
those parts. Also dialog is vital in Andy and Red's friendship. Without
it, and the great work by the two actors, the film wouldn't have been
quite as strong.The only flaw I could find in the story would be in the prison terms
for both men. If they are both imprisoned for multiple life sentences,
how come they never seem to age over the years? It is a small problem,
but it takes away some of the reality of the movie, and so I can't
quite give it the perfect rating. Other than that, this is still and
incredible movie going experience.Note: I see that Shawshank Redemption is sitting pretty at #2 on IMDb's
top 250. I'm not sure it deserves to be that high, but that doesn't
stop it from still being superior to many other films on that list.

******
2 September 2007
10
This is the greatest movie of all time! I'm not joking! The Godfather
is good, but this movie is beyond any other movie!Each and every movie
ever made has to bow down to this amazing, moving, grasping and
beautiful movie! It's story is greater than Forrest Gump, it's actors
are greater than Marlon Brando and Al Pacino and Casablanca, it's story
is greater than Star Wars(Of course the old ones!)! This is the movie
should have one higher number when you vote, because it's greater than
a 10, even an 11. It's the most touching story in the story of the
movie industry. If you haven't seen this one, you have no idea of what
you are missing! This is not a must see picture, this is the most see
picture! You'll never regret watching this movie, never!Movies can hold you prisoner. But only "The Shawshank Redemption" can
set you free. Only Shawshank Redemption, forever!

******
19 August 2007
10
The Shawshank Redemption is by far the best movie I've seen in my life.
It has it all. The acting is superb and that is not just a complement
every single actor that appears in this movie gave probably the best
acting that they could give. The story is very rough and hard, being
life in prison and all, and yet it's touching, you see the leading
character, Andy, never giving up, sticking to his story even when the
world seems to turn its back on him. Inside He finds that hope is the
only thing that's gonna make him go on, wake up everyday. Very nice
message that the movie gives you. Also the way the friendships works,
the commitment, the way they stick together and help each other, very
beautiful, very beautiful. So great directing, great story, great
acting, EXCELLENT MOVIE! Make yourselves a favor and go rent this
movie, I promise it won't let you down.

******
18 August 2007
10
I guess not many people will ever read this, but I just feel obliged to
praise this work of art. I am an aspiring Neuropsychology student and
obviously an extreme positivist. Man IS A MACHINE. Yet, The Shawshank
Redemption DEFINES what BEING A HUMAN is! That is the reason why it is
the best film ever made. It inspires hope, meaning, aspiration...
whatever you would like to call it.I wouldn't say that it inspired me to be less scientific in my view of
life, it's just that it made me feel better about life. I am still very
much in the physiological pure hard scientific corner of psychology.
What I guess I'm trying to say is that this movie MUST put things into
a rather mature perspective, even to the most rebellious and
unreasonable nihilist on the face of this planet.This movie is simplistic, the story isn't intricate, it is subtle and
very very very easy to follow. Yet, it resides in that category of
movies that include the likes of Schindler's list, Pulp Fiction and
Forest Gump; it actually sits on the throne there. The essence of this
movie is bigger than the discovery of Special Relativity, in that it
gives an answer to the question that you are faced with when hearing
the short line of sweet dialog: "I guess it comes down to a simple
choice really: get busy liven or get busy die'n". "What is the meaning
of life?"

******
13 August 2007
8
Top 250 material - YES #1 movie of all time - not a chance in Hell.I saw this movie when I was like 14 or 15 and thought it was the
greatest film ever made. Great acting, great story, great subplots,
best Stephen King adaptation ever, Morgan Freeman. The things that bother me most now are the one-dimensional characters
of the warden and guards. If we could see what turned them from human
beings into what they are now, that would have been helpful to the
emotional atmosphere of the film. The warden was definitely one of the
central characters and I didn't quite get a sense of who he was.Still a fantastic film, but I can think of 100 better ones.

******
8 July 2007
10
This is in my opinion, tied with Goodfellas for the greatest ever made.
Masterfully conceived and directed by Frank Darabont, a powerfully
adapted story from Stephen King's short story, amazing acting, and one
of the best musical scores ever written made this movie one of the
handful of masterpieces that will never die. Along with Goodfellas
losing Best Picture, choosing Forest Gump(a great movie) over the
Shawshank Redemption was the biggest mistake they ever made. The movie
that makes many references to redemption and hope is like Jesus
himself. The film did poorly in the box office but has enjoyed one of
the greatest afterlives in the history of cinema.Plot: The story is taken from Stephen King's short story "Rita Hayworth
and the Shawshank Redemption" and Frank Darabont made one of the only
movies better than the source material. Masterfully crafted to start
with a depressing image of everything the film goes to make one of the
most uplifting, happy, and powerful endings in the history of film.Acting: Narrating is Morgan Freeman who gives an Oscar-Worthy
performance as Red a lifer for murder in The Shawshank State Prison.
Tim Robbins likewise gives a powerful performance as the sympathetic
Andy Dufresne a lifer for murder as well. Playing the cold and ruthless
Mr. Norton the Warden is Bob Gunton who creates one of the greatest
villains I've ever seen on screen.Quality: This film is one of the greatest ever. One of the things that
really made this film was probably one of the best, most uplifting and
powerful musical scores I've ever heard which also deserved an Oscar.
The camera work was also fantastic opening with a sky-view of the
prison.This is one of the few movies where if you don't see the genius of it I
will have to question if you really seen the entire film or any of the
film. This is along with Goodfellas the greatest movies ever. There are
only a handful of masterpieces in history and this is one of them. Even
less is the amount of films that will never die and will always stand
the test of time. This is one of them. This is a film that you should
just buy.11/10

******
6 March 2007
10
When the musical score alone is enough to broadcast the emotion of the
movie, you know its a good film. Add to that outstanding performances
and one of the best screen plays ever written and I promise you wont be
disappointed.Many people are surprised to learn that this film is based on a Stephen
King novel, but they should not be. The dialog between characters is
outstanding, and required a literary genius to construct. No one says
to much or to little; it's just perfect. Best line: Andy: "Why do they call you Red?" Red: "I think it's cause I'm Irish"Red: "These walls are funny. First you hate 'em, then you get used to
'em. Enough time passes, you get so you depend on them. That's
institutionalized."Red: Rehabilitated? Well, Now let me see. You know, I don't have the
slightest idea what that means. parole board: Well, it means that
you're ready to rejoin society. Red: I know what you think it means,
sonny. To me it's just a made up word. A politician's word, so young
fellas like yourself can wear a suit and a tie, and have a job. What do
you really want to know? Am I sorry for what I did?

******
16 December 2006
8
The Shawshank Redemption was released in a very good year for movies
(1994) and although it could very well be argued that, at the time, it
did not get the credit it deserved-- being overshadowed by movies like
Pulp Fiction and Forrest Gump, it now may get more credit than it is
due. Time and time again I have heard the phrase, "They don't make them
like this anymore," when The Shawshank Redemption is spoke of. However,
it should be noted that Shawshank was not the first movie of its kind
and owes much credit to its predecessors (taking elements and ideas
from movies like Dead Man Walking, It's a Wonderful Life, etc.) Well
paced and often times very moving, The Shawshank Redemption provides us
with what is initially a very realistic situation: middle aged man Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is put on trial wrongfully (as far as we know)
for murder. Found guilty, he is put in jail for a life sentence. As the
movie progresses , in part from beautiful cinematography, and in part
from lightly tugging at the audiences heart strings, we are able to
sympathize with the inmates, and almost pity them. The concept of
having a home and not knowing what to do when not in your comfort zone
is something that the Shawshank Redemption uses to make a simple idea
into a very good full length movie. However, it is ranked #2 on IMDb's
top 250 (with a rating of 9.2 it is actually higher than The Godfather,
thus should be ranked #1) and this, I believe at least, is an
undeserving spot for The Shawshank Redemption. While it is very good,
it is certainly not among the ranks of Citizen Kane, The Godfather and
others on that level. Providing us with little or no historical or
cultural relevance, the movie likely earns its ranking because people
can identify with it, so they end up enjoying it, and end up giving it
a 10 out of 10 because they enjoy it so much. Though it pains me to say
it, just because a movie is highly enjoyable, it does not make it great
by any means. Andy Dufresne acts as a metaphor for the rest of the
human race, and shows, how sometimes, we are all wrongfully accused of
something or other. However, the movie pertains only to itself, not
taking on anything bigger-- so it stays a very good movie rather than
an excellent one.

******
26 November 2006
6
I am totally puzzled as to why this film is so highly rated. It is
reasonably well made, has a very good cast, and it held my interest.
However, it has nothing new in it. It wasn't fun. It wasn't life
changing. It didn't make me want to be a better person. None of the
characters in the film were particularly appealing. The protagonist's
method for escaping from prison was obviously not new, since he flashed
his copy of "The Count of Monte Christo." There was an unusual
directness in confronting gay rape in prison, but I find it to be not
that compelling a subject. I guess that leaves redemption. To me, he
paid way too high a price for thinking about, but not actually, killing
his wife. After she cheated on him. Perhaps the point was that he felt
so guilty about her death, he wanted to be punished. By spending twenty
years getting raped in prison? That's not punishment, it's just sick.

******
8 January 2006
10
This film really got me. As soon as Morgan Freeman got into the movie,
I started to get interested and the film ended up to be a crowd cheer
and a tearjerker. The story is so well done. This movie is based on
Stephen Kings short novel "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption."Vice president of the Portland bank Andy Dufrane (Tim Robbins) goes to
jail for two life sentences he did not commit. When he goes to jail,
the first step onto the prison ground will change his life. When he's
been beaten around by the queer bull Diamond brothers, he decides to
wait a few years to escape. Before these years he decides to meet the
institutionalized prisoner Red (Morgan Freeman) who can get Andy or
other prisoners whatever they wanted. He can get you packs of
cigarettes, jack hammers, naked lady cards, and posters of Rita
Hayworth, Marilyn Monroe etc. Andy wanted a jack hammer to crack his
wall. Red promised Andy that if the guards find his hammer, they will
never do business again. Andy never got caught and Red and him both
became friends for a long time. Andy became a big hit for the prisoners
and the guards when he helped them with their tax problems. In exchange
he got the prisoners beers. After he got the prison library to expand.
That is most of what I can say about 'The Shawshank Redemption.'Why did this film not win any academy awards? I felt this film was a
lot better than the brutally charged 'Pulp Fiction' than Tom Hanks life
achievements as 'Forrest Gump.' This picture sees life more beautifully
and more possible. This is a great luminous character study of
fortitude and friendship behind bars at its finest.

******
8 July 2005
10
I was very impressed by this movie. At first I wasn't sure if I should
rent it or not but I gave it a try and it is the best movie I've ever
seen. The acting is very good, the plot very good, and just the right
amount of drama, comedy, and sadness is included. The movie doesn't
leave you wanting more like some OK movies, It finishes just how it
should. After seeing this I guarantee you'll think the money was worth
it. I would would definitely give this a 10 out of 10 hands down and
judging by its excellent rating on this site, others share the same
opinion. I personally wish I could see it again for the first time as
it is just great! Enjoy!

******
1 July 2005
10
I have to say that Shawshank is THE best film i have ever seen, it was
recommended to me by a friend and i have been recommending it to all
and sundry ever since. You simply haven't lived until you have seen
this movie and although i loved every character in this movie, Morgan
freeman definitely did it for me. It leaves you realising that after a
long time in prison, it must be extremely intimidating to be set free
in what is a crazy world and leaving a hard but familiar life behind. I
have never been to prison and never want to but its quite an insight
I'm sure to how you develop a routine and a life in there. If you only
ever want to see one movie in your time then make this the one, if i
was doing desert island discs, then this would be the movie i take with
me without a doubt. And as for which movie actor i would take with me,
well thats easy.....that has to be Morgan Freeman (Red) Cheers Sarah

******
25 June 2005
10
***SPOILERS***This is a great movie that shows us that hope is a great thing. The
story tells us about Andy Dufrense, a man who is falsely accused for
killing his wife and her lover and who gets sent to Maines strongest
prison. Shawshank. In Shawshank Andy gets new friends, as well as
enemies. Being the wise man that he is, he begins to inject wisdom in
people. Helping them. He also meets Ellis Boyd "Red" Redding. A man
also accused for murder, but on true accusations. They become great
friends and together they give themselves hope. This is a wonderful movie that leaves you happy and shaken. Its an must
see.

******
21 June 2005
10
Words can't explain how good Shawshank is. This is the only movie where
i have felt emotionally attached to the characters. Frank Darabont
needs to get some work. He did an amazing job directing Shawshank.
Along with Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman perfectly cast as the main
characters, this movie just gets everything right. IT'S PERFECT. NO
OTHER MOVIE WILL EVER SURPASS THE GREATNESS OF "THE SHAWSHANK
REDEMPTION". (I know i can get a little dramatic). I don't understand
why it's behind the Godfather. Don't get me wrong; the Godfather is a
great film, but it doesn't compare to Shawshank. I was really surprised
when I found out that Shawshank was a box office failure. I guess
people would rather fork over their 8.50 to see garbage. I get annoyed
when people say Shawshank is a cult classic. It's not a cult classic.
Even though it failed at the box office, it's appreciated by many
today, and stands on many peoples list as the greatest film of all
time. It would be a crime to miss "The Shawshank Redemption". Instead
of wasting your money to see garbage like "White Chicks" or whatever,
you should go and pick up a copy of Shawshank. I guarantee that you
will not regret it. To me, "The Shawshank Redemption" is the greatest
cinematic experience of all time. Not because of flashy special
effects, but great story-telling, acting, writing, directing. This film
gets everything right. To sum it up in one word, this film is a
MASTERPIECE.

******
17 June 2005
10
I'm an action movie buff and watching a drama... ohh! that's way out of
my league. I avoided watching this movie for years; one, it was a drama
and two, the movie title was so weird, I almost took it for some
documentary preaching about salvation. And then there was this one day
when I didn't have anything else to watch but this movie.... and the
rest I'll say is history. The movie just moved me. The narration by
Morgan Freeman was so powerful that his voice still rings bell in my
head. Tim Robbins acted great, but so did everyone else in the movie.
The way the director has shown the events in various persons life are
just too great; special mention for the characters of Andy Dufresne,
Red and Brooks Hatlen (the librarian).To sum it all, this is the best movie I have watched, way better than
any of the action movies I have spent my life watching.- "Viks was here."

******
17 June 2005
10
The Shawshank Redemption. Somehow for Americans it was a difficult name
for a movie to get used to. From the first time I saw it, I have never
forgotten it. A story of hope, friendship, perseverance. Shawshank
immediately struck a chord deep within me. I think many people that
have seen it and rate it very highly, will share this feeling. I have
always been a big movie-fan and to the question "which is the best
movie ever", I could never give an answer without summing up some 3-4
different ones. But over the years my answer has become formed and now
whenever I get asked that question I can honestly say "The Shawshank
Redemption".

******
15 June 2005
10
I don't know how many times I've seen this film, and it still is as
entertaining as it's ever been. The directing is excellent. Tim Robbins
and Morgan Freeman are the best choices for their respective rolls, and
the story makes you wonder why Steven King ever wrote a horror novel to
begin with. Even the trailer to this movie is probably one of the best
I've ever seen.This is one of those movies that I've unwittingly been recruited as a
salesperson for. In other words, I feel I need to show this movie to
all my friends and family who haven't seen it, and I'm more than
willing to watch it again. If you love this movie as much as I do, then
don't forget to watch the younger brother of this film, The Green Mile.
Written and directed by the same crew. It's a great film, but has a lot
to live up to.

******
13 June 2005
10
I read this novella in Stephen Kings "Four Seasons" while i was doing
my GCSE exams. i remember then what a profound effect the story had on
me. A story of hope through extreme adversity and the power of
friendship that i thought could not be found between two men. The sheer
anticipation of this film being released was almost heart stopping, but
coupled with the fear it would not live up to my expectations. i also
remember thinking that i did not want to see it for fear of it
shattering my own perceptions of the two main characters, ANDY and RED.
i need not have feared a thing.....the screenplay and adaptation was
done with nothing short of pure brilliance. the camera work and choice
of location could not have been more suitable. perhaps it is a symbol
of how well Mr King writes that, it seems, everyones picture of
everything is the same!!! Thus is was quite easy to choose sets,
locations and of course actors. In the book, RED is a white, Irish
man......against all odds, i cannot imagine ANYONE else delivering such
a captivating, believable and utterly brilliant performance as Morgan
Freeman. This man deserves 20 Oscars his acting together with the small
stabs of narration are mind blowing who else could have done this?!!
NO-ONE!! Tim Robbins IS ANDY!....his whole movement and attitude were
exactly what King had written, this was encompassed in Robbins'
portrayal perfectly. together the chemistry they had was beautiful, you
could see that these characters were good friends, as well as the
actors that played them. The visionary pieces of the film that will
always linger? well the whole film lingers, such was the effect it had
on me, but the two specific points in the film? Firstly, Andy described
to RED where he could find a box, near a tree in a field, under some
rocks to be exact. Now this bit is in the book (obviously!!) but i
remember when i read it, the picture of that tree, in that field, next
to that wall. In the film it was as if they had asked ME to choose the
location, a chill went down my spine and it nearly brought me to
tears!!! and i am NOT KIDDING!!!!. The second bit, well its right at
the end, its the smile on RED's face when he sees ANDY again. This is
not a feeble lip turning grin.....NO this is a full , both sets of
teeth, cheek aching smile!!!! it IS the biggest and most emotional
smile i have ever seen in any film. i could go on for pages about this
film, i have been a film fan ever since i can remember, sitting with my
father on a Sunday afternoon (before the times of VCR's or satellite,
when you watched what was on that day or tough!!!) we watched films
like "The African Queen", "Bridge on the River Kwai", "Citizen Kane",
"The Rear Window", etc and from then i always liked a good film with a
good story, The Shawshank Redemption was already a good story, it took
genius to make it a GREAT film. to date i have seen it over 100 times.
this has taken me through 3 copies on Video before the DVD came out, i
am now on my 2nd DVD. if i have to buy another 100 DVD's it will always
always alway be my number one favourite film of all time. It is a film
you can watch at any time, when you are in any mood and it is still as
compelling as the first time i saw it, or indeed the first time i read
the story. 20 out of 10........

******
30 January 2005
8
Director Frank Darabont's attention to detail and respect of each
single sub-plot is crucial to the way in which the story is unravelled.
Through a series of not quite complete shots and narration by Ellis
Boyd 'Red' Redding (Morgan Freeman) a compassionate, compelling tale of
woe is retold and lifted from the pages where it was first written down
by Stephen King. At the beginning of the film Darabont illustrates the trapped feeling
of the new prisoners particularly well in a upwards vertical shot of
stone walls encrusted with windows, cast in an eerie blue light as they
appear to be closing in on the prisoner who happens to be passing
through the doorway. There seems to be no escape now. A feeling of indifference upon Andy's part is created at the beginning
also, using shots of many prisoners through a wire mesh fence, taunting
and jeering at Andy, combined with wide shots to represent Andy's calm
overview are shown, the fact that they are shot through the fence
representing that Andy does not belong there. However a later shot, in
which a close up on Andy zooms out to show hundreds of other prisoners,
illustrates the fact that Andy has blended in and is now just another
crook at Shawshank. However there remains to be something special about this crook, as is
illustrated during many shots, an example of which is when Andy is
standing in the dark foreground, with a group of convicts in the
background, it shows that he is separate, in his own world, a world of
imagination, freedom. justice and hope. The feelings of freedom and
hope are particularly well shown, using symbolism, music and voice over
narration

******
25 January 2005
8
I've been meaning to see this movie for several years now, having heard
all the hype and comments rating this as one of the best films of all
time. It certainly wasn't disappointing- despite the relatively slow
pace compared to most brainless blockbusters of today and tendency
towards sentimentality that crept up from time to time. It certainly
wasn't one of the greatest of all films, in my opinion, either; simply
an intriguing story, with something to teach us, perhaps, very well
told and very well acted. It's probably a movie I'd watch again, though
not straight away, as it is quite slow paced, and, just towards the
end, I felt it was getting a little too drawn out. But it's very good
to look at, there are some great performances, a nice musical score
from Thomas Newman, and a great plot, with a wonderful twist at the
end. So, overall this is a very good movie and one I would recommend.8/10

******
4 February 2004
10

Why is this movie only first-runner-up? This movie is without a doubt the
best movie ever created!
All I'm saying is GET BUSY LIVING OR GET BUSY DYING...
Thumbs up!

******
29 January 2004
10

What can I say this movie is the top of it's class. The Story is great
the acting is great . You really care about these characters. Morgan
Freeman's performance  is the glue that holds the movie together
and Tim Robbin's breaks out in this movie showing that he is a
great actor. If you like prison films this is the best!

******
14 August 2003
8

I was inspired to see Shawshank Redemption because of its ranking as second
best movie of all time on this site, and a lot of people told me it was a
brilliant film.I have to say I was a bit baffled after viewing this movie.It
is certainly a good, entertaining, well-cast and acted film, but it is not
anything special. I have seen quite a few prison drama movies like it. The
brilliant performances and well paced story do set it apart from other
similar works but still this does not explain how on earth Shawshank
Redemption can be classified as one of the all time best cinematic
achievements.So I just want to caution anyone who thinks they will see something
incredibly unique and magnificent. Without a doubt this art piece is very
touching, however I found myself having forgotten about it a couple of hours
after I had seen it. Not a sign of a masterpiece...See the godfather, casablanca, american beauty, donnie darko, memento,
moulin rouge for a truly breathtaking experience.See Shawshank Redemption if you want to see a quality film.Definitely not a
waste of a couple of hours!

******
7 January 2003
8

as i was saying in the title this is way overrated...i can't believe they
called it a psychological movie, and i think it's a copy of all escape
movies in history.
i mean yes, the acting is good, it has some good lines, but nothing
more...it is a very normal good movie...just that


******
13 August 2002
10

Few movies can grab the soul like this one. 
For me, every time I watch The Shawshank 
Redemption, I remember the music. I remember 
the framing, how each scene is perfectly 
constructed and put together, displaying the 
lives of the criminals. Every oily moment with 
the warden, every frightening vision with the 
`Sisters,' and of course, every point of 
pontification by the venerable Andy Dufresne. 
While I do not consider this the greatest 
movie ever, it is awfully close o the top. The performances by the likes of Tim Robbins, 
Morgan Freeman, Clancy Brown (who was 
doing Dr. Pepper commercials at the time) 
and Bob Gunton as Warden Norton were all 
exceptional. One thing that always keeps 
me coming back is the score by Thomas 
Newman. While he has based his entire 
style off this memorable score (listen to 
The Road to Perdition and Shawshank 
back to back, and you'll see), the subtle 
movements and piano keys turn this into 
one of the best films of all time.

******
19 November 2000
10

The Shawshank Redemption is different from any other movie in one most
obvious way...there is nothing wrong with it.  Tim Robbins is fantastic as
the reserved and to some extent mysterious Andy Dufresne, and Morgan
Freeman's portrayal of 'Red' is just as good.  Stephen King shows he is
more
than a horror guru by teaming up with Frank Darabont to produce one of the
greatest movies of all time.  There's humour, there's sadness, there's
action, there's drama.  This film has it all.  10/10.  Shawshank is a
fabulous tale and it is a shame that it won none of the Academy Awards it
was nominated for.  If you haven't experienced The Shawshank Redemption,
stop what you doing, leave your house/office and go and either rent or buy
this video.  An absolute classic.  The best.
Darabont's work has been limited since this film but his last directing
sensation was The Green Mile.  Starring Tom Hanks, this too is a fabulous
film and both feature in my Top 5 of all time.  Watch them
both.

******
14 November 2000
10

The Shawshank Redemption was in the better sense of the word perfect. It
reflected on the true life in the solitary confinement of prison. This
movie
was so powerful that it changed my direction of life. I went from wanting
to
be a fireman to a movie director and now I am living my dream because of
this amazing film. Frank Darabont and Stephen King worked at their best to
write this amazing story, added with the amazing acting by Tim Robbins and
Morgan Freeman, this is a must see for any movie fanatic. I give this
movie
a perfect score!

******
14 March 1999
7

I'm way too astonished to find THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION at the top of the
rankings list. Maybe it's because TITANIC got your tongues!This is a very satisfying tale about prison life that develops friendships
and painful moments, with solid performances by Morgan Freeman and Tim
Robbins. It's disturbing to mention a couple of major flaws I've noticed in
spending 2-1/2 hours of silver screen magic. Lengthy time is just one of
them. Another is that certain scenes quickly lose your interest, while
others are so interesting that you can't help but sit back and enjoy them
with the pleasure of comfort. Just draw a line graph inside your head and
notice how the levels get screwed as time progresses. Same thing with those
machines that measure waves of earthquake intensities. I'm not being too
complex, but I think this is a good comparison to what the movie
accomplished in general. So much for the harsh part...With good intentions, THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION gets better and better at the
conclusion, which is by far the most impressive I've witnessed. We must
think of this film, as a whole, a true part of escaping society's problems,
the definite basis of what it really means. Freeman's narration contributes
to the story with thought, and Robbins does exceptionally well as a con who
awaits the splendor of freedom. Stephen King did an adequate enough job in
writing a book that escapes horror. Prison flicks usually are
straightforward, but there is higher emphasis on its ideal writing, a
crucially vital element in good filmmaking standards.So while THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION has some pros and cons, it is a natural
and redeeming look at the pains and friendships that any living soul can
accept or caress. It isn't THE greatest movie ever filmed, but stands out as
a Hollywood classic that will see future years for the whole world to
crave.Then again, I did not say TITANIC "is" the greatest... 

******
4 March 1999
10

It is a great movie .... a movie that opens up a new dimension every time
one sees it . It has a message for you everytime you see it.One can say it is a movie about hope against all odds . It is a movie about
freedom .... of thought and action . You have to keep on hoping when there
is darkness all around . But that is only on a spiritual plane . It is also
an excellent prison movie with a convincing storyline and excellent
performances from Robbins and Freeman . I think it is a must see for all ...
not only once but many many times . And every time you will find it
different.

******
4 March 1999
9

As I write these, the IMDB poll has this listed as the top film of their top
250 films of all time.  I'm a little surprised by this, as you can imagine.
On the one hand, it's always nice to see a list that's willing to throw a
curve, instead of automatically putting CITIZEN KANE at the top, and this
choice certainly qualifies.  And don't get me wrong, I think this is a very
good film.  The relationship between the characters played by Tim Robbins
and Morgan Freeman is well played out (and both actors are excellent), the
story is well-adapted from the Stephen King novella, and Frank Darabont
deserves credit for keeping it simple without making it simplistic.On the other hand, the greatest film of all time?  It didn't even make my
top 10 for 1994 (they were, btw, PULP FICTION, QUIZ SHOW, HOOP DREAMS, THREE COLORS: RED, THE BOYS OF ST. VINCENT, THE LAST SEDUCTION, NOBODY'S FOOL, BURNT BY THE SUN, SIRENS, and ED WOOD).  It
did indulge in a few cliches, like the caged bird kept by James Whitmore's character, and the "sisters", that prevented it from being a 5-star movie(that's my highest rating). Nevertheless, it is
a very good movie, 9/10, and I'm glad to see so many people have caught up to it after it didn't do so well during its theatrical release.

******
2 March 1999
8

I have seen over 5000 films in the last 30 or so years. and as an amateur
film critic, I am among the thousands (maybe millions) of movie buffs who
also recognise that "The Shawshank Redemption" is one film that should be
rated higher by film critics and be given more appreciation. It is superb!!
entertainment!!  However! to be ranked higher than The Godfather,Citizen
Kane,The Seven Samarai,Raging bull,etc, What gives?  If anybody can share
with me their reasons for saying that this is THE GREATEST FILM OF ALL
TIME?...over some of the films that I just mentioned, please explain. Am I
missing something??

******
4 July 2014
10
Oh man where to begin. This movie has it all. Easy to follow for both
critics and normal viewers alike. This film has it all. The
performances are amazing, especially Morgan Freeman. For God Sake he
even narrates it. This film deserves the top spot on IMDb for sure. The
story is great, and it really gives a great look at what prison can be
like and how it can affect a man. It also has one of the most
satisfying endings in film history. Stephen King may be a creepy guy
but boy does his books make incredible movies. I recommend this movie
to literally everyone (except small children) who are looking for an
emotional, heart-warming, tear-jerking, amazingly created movie.

******
4 July 2014
9
Very good film, would recommend. It's a violent film so not for the
heart lighted. From start to middle to finish it gets you edging out of
your seat. The characters are believable. The special affects are
brilliant. If you scared of violence or don't like blood and guts don't
watch this film. I loved the different scenes. My son loved this film
well he would he is a teenager and loves all the fighting scenes that
where in this film. On the other hand my daughter disliked the film
because she like films that are not violent like this film is. I would
recommend this film to people who like fast pace films. As I mentioned
before the special affects are brilliant and it must have cost a
fortune to make this film.

******
3 July 2014
10
is an impressive, engrossing piece of film-making from
director/screenwriter Frank Darabont who adapted horror master Stephen
King's 1982 novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption (first
published in Different Seasons) for his first feature film. The
inspirational, life-affirming and uplifting, old-fashioned style
Hollywood product (resembling The Birdman of Alcatraz (1962) and Cool
Hand Luke (1967)) is a combination prison/dramatic film and character
study. The popular film is abetted by the golden cinematography of
Roger Deakins, a touching score by Thomas Newman, and a third imposing
character - Maine's oppressive Shawshank State Prison (actually the
transformed, condemned Mansfield Ohio Correctional Institution or State
Reformatory).Posters for the film illustrate the liberating, redemptive power of
hope and the religious themes of freedom and resurrection, with the
words: "Fear can hold you prisoner, Hope can set you free." Darabont's
film is a patiently-told, allegorical tale (unfolding like a
long-played, sometimes painstaking, persistent chess game) of
friendship, patience, hope, survival, emancipation, and ultimate
redemption and salvation by the time of the film's finale.It was nominated for seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best
Actor (Morgan Freeman), Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Cinematography,
Best Editing, Best Original Score, and Best Sound - but it failed to
win a single Oscar. And the film's director failed to receive a
nomination for himself! In the same year as Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction,
and Speed, they received all of the attention. Only through positive
word-of-mouth (following cable TV and broadcast airings, and then video
releases) did the film do well - although its original reception at the
box-office was lukewarm. The film was the precursor for another
inspirational and popular film (and a similar adaptation of a Stephen
King story by writer/director Frank Darabont) - The Green Mile (1999)

******
10 August 2010
6
Written and directed by Frank Darabont in 1994, The Shawshank
Redemption is a film about a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins)
who is wrongly accused of and sent to prison for the murder of his
cheating wife and her lover. During his stay in prison he becomes a
financial adviser to the guards and the warden. The warden is involved
in taking bribes and enlists Andy to hide this illegal money. Andy
befriends Red (Morgan Freeman) the guy in the joint that can get things
on the inside and they become close friends throughout the movie. This
is a well written story and seemed to be a good escape from everyday
life, but does not qualify as one of my all time favorite movies. I
thought that filming most of the movie in a prison was kind of boring
and the lack of action or any type of visual effects made it a little
dull. This is not a movie I would watch again and again. The pace is
just so slow.

******
8 December 2009
9
The Shawshank Redemption is a simple story elegantly, cleverly told,
not to mention expertly acted. The story is about a banker (Tim
Robbins), wrongly convicted of killing his wife and her lover, who
finds the strength to deal with the brutality of prison, thanks to a
murderer serving a life term.The film is a tense drama of injustice and male dignity, brilliantly
adapted from Stephen King's story, with Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman
at their peak. A satisfying, audience-pleasing film. It has enjoyed a
curious after-life. On its release in 1994, The Shawshank Redemption
had mixed reviews and grossed just $28 million in the US; it did not
make the list of Top 50 films at the box-office for that year. Yet in
2001, Channel 4 TV viewers voted it their third favourite film of all
time, behind only the Star Wars and Godfather films. Readers of Time
Out and Empire magazines also named it among their very favourites.

******
3 December 2005
6
OK OK OK Shawshank's a very good film. Not in MY top 25, or even top
50, but it's a good film. Robbins and Freeman certainly work magic and
the story is quite entertaining, if a tad predictable, especially the
Hollywood happy ending. However, this film is FAR from being the "#2"
best movie in the IMDb top 250. In fact, Shawshank Redemption as the #
2 film is the most overrated anything I've ever come across. Maybe
somebody will rank Paulie Shore as the # 2 greatest actor, but until
that time this one wins most overrated, hands down. I really don't
think this film deserves a 3 rating, heck I might give it a 5, but if
there's folks blowing this thing way out of proportion with 10's then
somebody's got to slip an underrating in there just to weed out the
Shawshank homers....

******
13 December 2002
8

Is Shawshank a good film? Yes. Is it the second greatest film of all time
as
this website suggests? Definitely not! I continually fail to see how
people
rank it so high. I don't even believe it was the best film of its given
year. Pulp Fiction was a much more inventive film that changed the way
films
were made afterwards. Shawshank is a good film but I doubt it changed the
cinematic landscape or it can be looked at as a work of an auteur. I am
guessing the same people who regard it so high are the same people who
have
never seen a foreign film or consider black and white films hard to
watch.I hate to be so critical of a film that I enjoy. But at the same time, I
feel I have to show my discontent with movie goers. I also don't consider
the Lord of the Rings the 5th best film or Memento the 10th best film of
all
time. There were films made prior to 1990.
People are free to have their opinions and I am allowed to have mine as
well. My opinion is that the general public are the ones who encourage
Hollywood to put out recycled formulas year after year.***1/2 out of ****

******
6 November 2002
6

It's a lovely story with nice guys (you'd love to make friends with) and bad
guys (you'd love to hate). OK. Let's say it's the kind of entertaining stuff
that makes you feel good... provided you are lenient enough to find it deep,
genuinely humane, etc.So you think it's a wonderful movie? Welly welly well. Maybe I need to tell
you something about cinema. [Don't take it as a lesson from an infatuated
Frenchman but simply as the point of view of a cinema lover.]
Cinema is about images made emotions. Hence astoundingly good movies are way
above the usual recipe: (good story + good story-telling) + (good characters
+ good actors) = good movie.As long as it was, never did I felt emotions through images in The Shawshank
Redemption. The good characters/actors/story-telling... had already killed
every single spark of emotion. Especially the deadpan voice-over
narration.Bottom line: Shawshank Redemption is beautifully bundled, not beautifully
crafted. Guess why Tim Robbins directed Dead Man Walking the year
after.

******
6 June 2002
6

It's nice. It's somewhat clever. Just too formulaic with the "noble
prisoners" struggling against the corrupt and evil prison system. It would
be nice to see a movie that actually thought ILL of prisoners (as we
should). Same aul, same aul.

******
10 March 2000
10

I just saw this movie yesterday and now I feel ridiculous for waiting so
long.  It was really great and I am sorry it did not win any Oscars, because
it deserved to win more than "Forrest Gump", in my opinion.  Tim Robbins
actually played a likable guy and Morgan Freeman was perfection.SPOILER ALERT!!!I cried when "Red" was given parole! I also should have known what was going
to happen to Tommy Williams, but that caught me by surprise.I do have one problem with the movie, but I got over it right away and did
not diminish from the entire experience.  If Andy's cell was on an upper
level, and in between other cells, where was this tunnel he built actually
supposed to be? The ending was very cathartic, thank God.  After the brutality and injustice
portrayed in the movie, we needed that. And the ending was very beautiful
too. 

******
4 January 2011
4
After seeing how high it was on 'best film' lists I thought it must be
something great, unfortunately it didn't live up to my expectations.
Sure, it was a touching story, great actors and of course a great
ending, but I couldn't help feeling disappointed. Shawshank Redemption
was visually boring and seemed to drag on for hours and hours without
reaching any type of plot until three quarters into the film, and the
plot itself was pretty unrealistic, sorry but what are the chances of
him meeting a man, who knows the man who really killed his wife?
...unlikely. I must admit, its not a bad film and i'd watch it again
just for the ending, which I didn't see coming at all. But I still
can't get my head round why anybody would consider this 'the best film
of all time' because it most certainly isn't.

******
17 March 2009
7
I'm utterly mystified at the cult of idolatry that has developed around
this solid but not overly memorable prison film based on a Stephen King
short story."The Shawshank Redemption" came out of nowhere in 1994 to be nominated
for 7 Academy Awards, and I have to believe that it's the film's
underdog story that has helped it to develop such a following over the
years as much as it is the quality of the film itself. There's nothing
egregiously wrong with it, but it's overly-sentimental and obvious
film-making from a director who has done nothing but make too serious
film adaptations of Stephen King novels. I think it's become apparent over the years that Morgan Freeman is a
one-trick pony when it comes to acting, but at the time he wasn't quite
as well known, so the wise sage role he plays here seemed good enough
to get him an Oscar nomination. However, it's Tim Robbins who really
deserves the most praise as the man wrongly imprisoned. The less said
about the actors who play the various prison personnel, the better --
they're all played as horrorshow goons.The original Stephen King story was an entertaining bit of pulp, but
Frank Darabont tries to turn it into something that the story just
isn't -- namely, an epic story about one man's struggle to free his
soul. As a result, where the story felt sleek and satisfying, the film
feels sanctimonious and bloated.Grade: B

******
8 August 2006
5
This is supposed to be better than every movie but The Godfather? Well,
maybe I could think more positively about it without such ridiculous
comparisons, but this is an average movie at best. I guess my biggest
problem with it is that it is so completely far-fetched. You have a few
characters supplied solely to provide the "sad" moments, and everything
else is just built up to provide a fulfilling and completely happy
ending. Now I'm no prison warden, but I would look behind my tenant's
posters (more in case they've tunneled into each other's rooms for a
little lights-out action).Anyway, as I thought about it more, the movie started to remind me of
another classic prison flick, Cool Hand Luke. Unfortunately for
Shawshank, Tim Robbins is no Paul Newman, and whatever stiff played the
warden is no Struther Martin. Perhaps more importantly, though, is the
way in which Cool Hand Luke presents a much more believable series of
events, with no fairy tale ending. Luke's omission of the whole
prison-love thing is even forgivable thanks to the inclusion of a
classic car wash scene. One does not need a prisoner who happened to be
roommates with a prisoner who happened to kill the wife of a man who
happens to be a prisoner to create drama. It's a truth Shawshank dearly
needs to learn.

******
17 May 2006
5
Let me start by saying that I always enjoy watching this film. It is
perhaps one of the ultimate Hollywood feel-good movies. However, to
call a film one of the greatest of all time, you need to compare it
with many films of all types, and from many sources. This film is above
average Hollywood fayre, and does indeed look very good compared to
most of the over-hyped brain-disengaged tosh Hollywood produces.I am suspicious of most film top 100's, 10's etc etc in any case. They
are as much a reflection of the average age and experience of those
voting than any intrinsic value of the film.Withouit wanting to be disrespectful, anyone who feels this film
uniquely opens their eyes to certain fundamental truths about the human
condition, would do better watching Sondeburgh's highly accessible, but
more profound exploration on love, loss, faith, hope and redemption
"Solaris". The adventurous might also check out Tarkovsky's 1972
Russian version!

******
7 May 2006
7
This movie provides positive proof that the IMDb website has security
holes. Somehow the family members of the filmmakers hacked the system
to grossly inflate the votes for this movie. How else to explain the
No. 2 ranking of a film that probably does not belong in the Top 2000?
It is an entertaining prison yarn but there are at least twenty prison
movies that are superior to this and the filmmakers had the good sense
to borrow from these (I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang, The Great
Escape, Cool Hand Luke, etc.). In fact, the same director's The Green
Mile, which is also based on a Stephen King story and set in a prison,
is a better film. On the acting front, Robbins and Freeman are always
watchable.

******
29 January 2003
6

I'd heard so much about this film, everyone who told me about it, sang its
praises. My ex boyfriend said he'd cried at the end. It's even ranked #2 in
imdb's top 250 movies. So you can imagine that as I settled down to watch
this film, I was expecting something out of the ordinary. Unfortunately for me, it was *very* ordinary. Ok sure, there's some great
twists and some parts keep you on the edge of your seat. But the pace was
slow and dragged in parts, *SPOILER* just like Andy's possesions when he
escapes. A few rare films I've watched, American Beauty for example, have
made me go "wow" afterwards and stayed with me long after the film has
finished. Due to all the hype, I was expecting to feel the same after
watching "Shawshank" but all I feel is that most of the film is instantly
forgettable and cheesy. I suspect that most of the people who have rated this film a 9 or 10
haven't had the opportunity to see many films that haven't had the
"Hollywood" conveyor belt behind them. My advice to them is to give smaller,
low budget films a watch. You may be pleasantly surprised.

******
10 April 2002
6

I thought Shawshank was a gorgeous movie, wonderfully shot with beautiful
production design. That said, I have a hard time watching the film. It
drags-on for too long. I think the filmmakers were aiming for deep-thought
provoking pacing, but I just got bored. The film moves slowly just so you
can see how beautiful it is; personally, pretty pictures are not enough for
me.

******
11 March 1999
4

"The Shawshank Redemption" has so much
skill which went into the production that
it is regrettable that it's overlength
undermines its attributes. Episodic, slack
and slow formatting stretch the narrative
far beyond what its material requires. The
result is a fair film, with some worthy
touches.   

******
5 November 1998
6

While the acting is rather good, not all performances are flawless, nor
matched with each other as well as they could be
(see Godfather 1 and 2, Goodfella's, even Pulp Fiction for near flawless
ensemble acting in films).The film works but is a multi-derivative film, borrowing similar characters
from several films and fashioning a film of fairly corny and unbelievable
melodramatic moments to ultimately preach a message of
hope.While it's an entertaining film, it's not a very good film at all.  It's
strongest moments are borrowed from prison films as
far back as 1930's Up the River which starred Spencer Tracy
and
Humphrey Bogart (in his second role).   While Shawshank is superior overall
than some of the film it borrows from, it does not go any place other films
have not already been before.  While at times it borders on being brutal, it
still is completely done with a rose colored glasses sensibility.  Were it
to more accurately portray any semblance of what the situation would be like
it would be at times very difficult to watch and emotionally
exhausting--which this film is not.I am rather surprised it has received such high praise from so many.  I
suppose if voters would see films such as Attica, Breaker Morant, Brubaker,
Cool Hand Luke, Cry Danger, The Glass House, Papillon, Pressure Point
(1962), Riot in Cellblock 11,
Short Eyes, and Yol for starters (films which concern men who are
prisoners), they would realize how much of this film is borrowed from prior
films.

******
7 January 2005
7
Shawshank Redemption is a good movie with great actors, a decent
director, wonderful music and a very obvious plot. I think the movie
would have been between mediocre and failure were it not for Robbins
and Freedman.Its ranking on the IMDb top 250 is a shame. It shouldn't be on a list
with other such high caliber films as the Godfather and Gone With the
Wind. I think that the re-release of the DVD is the cause of its
illogical high-standing.Don't get me wrong. Its a good movie its just not as good as people
say. Worth watching especially if your a fan of either of the main
actors.7 out of 10

******
18 December 2007
3
Watching this film made me think about the genre of "prison"-movies and
what the theme really is in these stories. All of them seem to have
some common elements; the warden is a psychopath, there is almost
always some inmate that is out to get the protagonist in some way,
there is the companionship and last but not least the portrayal of the
human spirit that will not be broken in the direst of circumstances.
And maybe that is what "shawshank" wants to tell us; that the strong
individual can beat an unfair and cruel system by different means. In
this story we have Andy Dufresne who is clever but also able to endure
visits in "the hole" many times without developing psychiatric
phenomena. In this sense I will claim that this movie is just as much a
piece of fiction as lets say "starwars" is. It is simply not possible
to stay sane if you are repeatably treated in a degrading manner and if
you live in constant fear. The movie is highly entertaining but should
not be seen as a serious attempt to explore human reactions in a prison
environment where inmates are treated as garbage. Don't fool yourself
on this account. Luke Skywalker is just as real as the character of
Andy Dufresne is.Regards Simon

******
22 October 2006
4
The Shawshank Redemption is reasonably well written, directed, acted,
and filmed. Yet in my judgment it is a below-average movie. It lacks a
real plot, and, while the title promises redemption, nobody and nothing
is redeemed. The characters lack depth, and many events are
implausible.No doubt, wardens and prison guards can be wicked people. But those
portrayed in this film are so completely perverse that they become
uninteresting. Their function is to represent "the establishment" and
"authority." The audience is meant to identify with Andy Dufresne, the
main character. While innocent of the murders of which he is convicted,
he's hardly an admirable character, and he becomes worse during his
imprisonment. He's a clever manipulator who eagerly cooperates in the
warden's criminal activities in the hope of profiting from doing
so--which he eventually does. The prison also has has a contingent of
homosexual rapists, who are called "not human" so as to avoid admitting
that their behavior is all too human, and very much in need of
redemption.Thus, the film's popularity: it appeals to our tendency to rationalize
our own wickedness by comparing ourselves with moral monsters.
Unfortunately, serving that function does not make a mediocre film
great any more than serving sound moralism does.

******
3 September 2005
5
Good cast. Good story. The performances were excellent and there was
both ample food for thought, and some very good scenes. Didn't hurt
that i'm a big Morgan Freeman fan. Always top notch.On the other hand, overall, the whole film was far too unpleasant,
preachy, and downright repugnant, to be terribly enjoyable. When the
payoff at the end finally arrived, it just wasn't grand enough to
overcome the feeling i'd just crawled through the sewer.And for this to be the #1 film on IMDb (actually second, but same score
as #1 and with more votes) among far superior films like "The
Godfather", "Schindler's List", "Lord of the Rings", and "Casablanca",
is ludicrous. This would never even have entered the remotest regions
of my mind if somebody had asked me to name some really great films.

******
10 February 2004
4

This is just a typical prison yarn with some mawkish sentimenttossed in. I really don' t understand the fuss. I guess some peoplelook for grandeur and prjoect it onto middling, palatable materiallike this. That's the only explanation I've got for the unwarrantedpopularity of this flick. Production credits are fine enough, as is theacting but it certainly doesn't belong on any repsectable list ofgreatest films of all time.

******
29 July 2001
4

After seeing this movie I could not notice to be misled by the IMDB rating.
The movie is nice, even good, but no way it should receive a 9.0.The movie could easily have been produced by Disney: strong moral & a happy
ending. Sure, there are strong points. The scene of the old man who have
been imprisoned for almost his whole life is very well placed and Tim
Robbins' performance is good but the story itself does not leave anything
behind. 3 out of 5. That's all there is to it.

******
26 April 2002
4

I don´t like movies about "way of life" or about a hope. In this movie is
handled a problem with "normal life" or with resolution to take a life to
"own hands". A topic of this film is such like Papillon. This is not an
authentic subject, this is not an authentic movie....

******
19 July 2000
4

It is strange that this movie is 2nd in imdb chart, as it is the same old
american story, where good people win, and bad guys died.
More strange, the USA is still the place where this story must sound more
false.

******
13 October 1998
3

WEll I had high hopes for this movie.  But it fell way short.  I was hoping
it would keep me guessing, but this movie was easy to predict what was going
to happen.  Though I did think the acting was good by both main
stars.Jason

******
9 August 2006
5
I cannot possibly realize why this movie is rated in top movies. There
is nothing new in this film and there isn't anything in it that makes
it special. Wake up people! Quote Bill Hicks "Piece of Sh*t".OK I'll give it that there isn't anything to complain about the acting
or directing, etc. But this entire movie seems to be a compromise. I
also think that the success of this film is based on the "least worst
principle" and that makes it bad.I'm also fed up with the narrator and all the dramatic film music. All
this seems like fishing Oscar nominations. Am I really the only one who
can see how transparent this is? I doubt it so please vote movies that
really will make difference.

******
8 February 2003
3

Why do you like this so much? It steals directly from every other GOOD
prison movie I've ever seen: The Great Escape, Escape from Alcatraz,
Midnight Express, you name it. Because it allows the hero to be raped
it's
somehow brave or profound or heaven forbid realistic. Far from it folks.
The
work of hacks, only the MAIN performances are redeemable. How 'bout that
warden, quite a 3 dimensional character that one. As are all the
peripherals. Its bad, but in an average hollywood way. Of course it's
overblown but it entertains decent enough in that much. Nothing
memorable,
infact I'd have forgotten it totally if it weren't for the persistant and
oh
so undeserved praise heaped upon it. But hey if it does it for you more
power to you. Just don't talk about it's "power" in front of me, I may
puke.

******
1 August 2000
2

this film is very convincing hokum. nice, gentle, inoffensive and
insubstantial story about prison life - I came away feeling prison was a
place where nobody says f##k or fears bending over to pick up the soap.
check out Freeman, in the token performance of his career, neatly basking in
the falsely accused smart white gentleman robbins' shaddow. what a team...
so very progressive. 'hope...' . oh yeah, we've got a lot of 'hope' going on
here. The lush fantasy kind, so deadly sweet and full of bull. frank
darabont is a gifted man who excels in making pretty pictures that strike at
the very heart of american pie values and gives them a welcome support by
elevating tokenism to its greatest levels in hollywood yet - that is no
small achievement, considering... if you don't believe me check out his
latest masterpiece, he just can't stop doing it. hell, why not! it sells
tickets.

******
13 December 2015
6
This is the film that seems to make people excited that they can tell
other film-lovers that they like, because it seems sophisticated. With
it's captivating title and the feel-good story of friendship, it's
about as complicated as most American movie-goers can get. This can be
a decent one to keep on, if you switch to it on TV and have some
laundry to fold. However, there are hundreds of films I'd rather watch
to stimulate my mind. I would have said thousands but I've only seen
slightly over a thousand films so far. I know that many people have a
special place for this film in their heart, but they never really seem
to stop and ask themselves "why?". Shawshank does have a few, fun
gotcha-type moments, and the shot of Andy in the stream after escape is
quite memorable. However, the film itself is not one of those birds
whose feathers are too bright that "are not meant to be caged." This
film needs to stay shelved when we are discussing the greats. It can
find itself comfortably and appropriately filed between Shallow Hal and
Shiloh.

******
21 July 2013
7
This is a well done movie but there are a ton of inconsistencies
through out the movie which ruin it for me (such as the pressurized
sewage pipe).Either way, if you break the movie down in to segments, the movie does
very well. The characters are believable, with the storyline also being
fairly solid.My favorite scene is the tar/roof top scene. Very well done. Very real
life.I'd like to get the BlueRay version of this and watch the special items
for this movie. I'd like to see the making of it and the behind the
scenes.The only real weak part of the movie is the ending. It almost feels
like it is being pushed a little too quickly and I thought their should
have been some dialog at the end.Acting 1 Storyline 1 Continuity 0 Plot Twists 1 Realism 1 Directing 15 of 6

******
19 July 2013
8
Not bad it really is not bad at all but certainly not worthy of the
number one slot.Not bad it really is not bad at all but certainly not
worthy of the number one slot.Not bad it really is not bad at all but
certainly not worthy of the number one slot.Not bad it really is not
bad at all but certainly not worthy of the number one slot.Not bad it
really is not bad at all but certainly not worthy of the number one
slot.Not bad it really is not bad at all but certainly not worthy of
the number one slot.Not bad it really is not bad at all but certainly
not worthy of the number one slot.Not bad it really is not bad at all
but certainly not worthy of the number one slot.Not bad it really is
not bad at all but certainly not worthy of the number one slot.Not bad
it really is not bad at all but certainly not worthy of the number one
slot.

******
30 May 2012
6
I consider a technically well made movie, good story with great actors,
but nothing more. Use the melodic drama injustice, but not quite
spectacular, as a masterpiece of cinema. I think a great movie for
afternoon session, but not the level of movies that have the best score
of all time. This I consider an injustice. This film has to have
something else to be an excellent movie. I respect the majority opinion
here, but I put my sincere considerations, here is a democratic space
to put our feelings and emotions. Film is a passion, and I'm sure we'll
be together to honest debate with many other films. I liked this movie,
but without much enthusiasm, as in the comments here. For me, a movie
only average ...

******
14 January 2011
9
I heard about this movie very much some use to say "this is the
greatest ever movie" but after watching it I started saying "what a
movie(I mean awful)?There is nothing great about this movie its a
boring 2 hours crap.The story is about a guy called Andy(Tim Robbins)
is convicted with crime which he has not committed.The whole movie
describes Andy life in prison and finally how he escapes from the
prison which takes almost 20 years for him to escape.If anyone has a
very high expectations about this film then please erase it.Its just a
ordinary movie there is nothing in this movie.If someone want to kill a
time then watch it.I m going with 6/10 for this movie.Not so good,Not
so bad.

******
14 November 2010
7
I don't get how this movie could be the best rated in the IMDb. Sure
it's good, maybe great, but come on, there are so many movies more
meaningful, more groundbreaking, more shaking... That's a clever story
with an amazing end. Actually, it's probably one of the happiest movie
end. Maybe that's why people like it so much. Sure there is some
message about justice, perseverance and courage, but all in all very
classic and easy, not to say shallow. So I rated it 7 as an efficient
entertaining movie. Nothing really special in the photography, nor in
the acting, nor in the staging, nor politically. No complexity in the
feelings nor in the characters. Really, it does deserve good critics,
but certainly not being ranked best movie ever. I suppose the shawshank
fanatics would also give the litterature nobel prize to Stephen King?

******
20 February 2010
7
Not the greatest but definitely up there. It has power and presence
within several characters and grips you into a mind boggling reality of
what could be and how any routine, even in a prison, can become all
that one in the situation comes to expect. A very thoughtful outlook.
After a while, what some on the outside "looking in" may consider
outrageously profound comes to be the only reality worth acceptance to
the one stuck on the inside of it all. After decades of being trapped,
several men sharing life's toughest and most eye-opening experiences
behind the same old walls come to realize that there may be even less
opportunity available within boundary once they are ultimately freed.

******
1 January 2010
8
Don't miss it.The depiction of brutal injustice and hopelessness in this movie is
utterly convincing. I was totally taken in, and by 80% of the way
through was dreading the end: on the one hand, I knew that stagnation,
institutionalization and hopelessness are the fates to be expected in
the U. S. prison system, and would not be disappointed or surprised to
see an end similar to the beginning in those regards; on the other
hand, I hoped for some kind of positive uplift at the end.
Unfortunately I was disappointed in both expectations. The Hollywood
ending was too contrived and unbelievable to maintain the high level of
realism of the first part of the movie.1. You cannot tunnel through 15 feet of concrete with a rock hammer,
even in 20 years. 2. A Portland newspaper cannot banner-headline a
prison corruption story, ever. 3. The Warden could have notified all
the banks to expect an escapee masquerading as a customer before
Dufresne could have withdrawn funds from 10 banks. Have you tried to
close a bank account recently? 4. Dufresne could not have kept his suit
and papers intact crawling through 500 yards of sewer pipe.Etc., etc. No ending is better than a contrived feel-good ending. Were
the producers concerned that we might be too inspired to advocate
prison reform unless they gave us a shot of feel-good at the end?
Fortunately the power and artistic perfection of the first part of the
movie dominates. Very disturbing and powerful. I am grateful for the conversation it
inspired between my stepdaughter, my girlfriend and myself this
morning. We ranged over the Massachusetts Geoghan case, the death
penalty, criminal justice in the U. s. vs. China, and the thousands of
movies that do NOT have Hollywood endings.

******
11 May 2006
10
i don't even know what to write about this movie. while i was leaving
the theatre, i already knew it became my favorite movie. its degrading
to this film to even call it a movie, its a masterpiece. a one of a
kind portrait which can't be duplicated. every scene is perfectly
crafted; perfectly filmed. the pace is perfect; there is never a dull,
or too fast moment during the film. the music is beyond words, how the
director was able to incorporate such feeling with the music he used is
beyond my comprehensibility. the acting is phenomenal (obviously, how
can Morgan freeman be bad in anything?), Tim Robbins ain't to shabby
either. the writing is the true work of art, though. the script is
completely magnificent; its a gem.still to this day its by far my favorite movie, and let me tell you
I've probably seen more movies than you've even heard of. its unique
and thats the only thing that one movie has to stand out from all the
other movies created in this business. and let me tell you, oh how this
movie stands out.

******
29 June 2005
10
Now this is why we go to movies. I'm surprised at how this film flopped
when it was first released in 1994 and yet 11 years later, it's
considered one of the greatest movies of all time. I think it's the
greatest movie of all time (sorry, to all of those who think that title
goes to "The Godfather"). Yet, here is a movie that in all instances
should have failed. Maybe it was because of the plot, which shared too
many likenesses to every cliché prison drama we've ever seen. But I
assure you, that's not what goes on here. Directed by Frank Darabont,
who wrote the film's script, which is an adaptation of the Stephen King
short story "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption," "The
Shawshank Redemption" is filled with a strong sense of self-worth and
purpose. Yes, in the beginning a man named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins)
is convicted for a murder he did not commit. Behind the walls of
Shawshank penitentiary, Andy finds himself the victim (a "fish" -
prison slang for a new arrival) of violent acts by other hardcore
convicts. He begins a tentative friendship with a fellow lifer, Red
(Morgan Freeman, in an Oscar-nominated role), and Andy finds himself
doing the taxes of the warden (Bob Gunton). In all of this, we know
that a man, like Andy, is not meant to be locked up, whether he
committed a heinous crime or not because simply, the human spirit is
not meant to kept down by mortal circumstances. This lends a great
amount of weight and structure to the film's most powerful image, which
has ingrained itself indelibly into our minds. This movie carefully
avoids clichés, and it's the better for it. Tim Robbins is a revelation
in this movie, as is Morgan Freeman and the rest of the supporting
players. "The Shawshank Redemption" is a film about hope in even the
most bleak of places, which could be considered prison. It's a movie
that has rightfully earned a place in cinematic history as a legend and
a masterpiece of film. It's no wonder why.10/10

******
17 December 2004
10
A friend of mine once asked "why is The Shawshank Redemption so good?".So let me tell you.Visually I find the movie excellent. Now I can't say I am an expert in
movies, but in my opinion the acting is very good. The parts for Andy
and Red aren't extremely difficult or anything, but they are carried
out truly well. Also the supporting actors were good, though I don't
think they match the leading actors' performances.Some shots in the movie are awesome. Just tiny little details and
angles make them special. I could pull out many examples, but you
should watch the movie yourself and see those little things that I
believe make it excellent.Now what I have mentioned above, won't make the movie one of the best
ever. But then there's the story. Oh yes the story. Written by Stephen
King, it's basically very simple at the start and gets more complex and
spreads out like a cobweb. In the middle, we have interesting twists
and then near the end, the ultimate climax. Now another thing I found
interesting about the plot, was that the actual "high-point" of the
movie was not as near to the end as usual. The movie kind of lets you
cool down before the very end. I found that great.That was The Shawshank Redemption technically, now people find like a
new dimension in it emotionally. It's a movie about hope and
friendship. It touches almost everyone who watches it. It evokes strong
feelings. It's what makes it the best movie ever.

******
10 September 2001
8

I figured prison life to be much harsher, as seen in other films.  This is
the films only weak point, but then the story would suffer if the film was
like Fight club.  This is a story about a man who loses everything but still
survives.  He uses his intelligence to outwit his attackers, and function in
prison.  No matter what happens he still kept his dreams alive.  What is a
man without dreams?  The word institutionalized is used in this film to
describe what the prison does to the individual. Tim Robbins will not have
the inner freedom of who he is change to what the prison dictates.  There
are many interesting subplots that keeps the viewer's attention.  These
subplots culminate into a unforgettable conclusion.

******
26 July 2000
9

Every single scene in The Shawshank Redemption, every bit of dialogue,
everything that happens all beautifully serves the purpose of intensifying
the impact of the story itself. The muted colors and the relaxed
cinematography do a spectacular job of taking us back in time, and the
message of the film is inspiring, to say the least. What you have in the Shawshank Redemption is a film that is extremely well
thought-out and put together in such a way that it is able to hold your
attention even for well over two hours. The movie is about holding on to
hope in even the worst circumstances, even under tremendous stress, and even
when you are in that situation unjustly. However, even though Andy Dufresne
is clearly the protagonist, Red is actually a more important person as far
as the message of the film. He seems to embody the lessons learned in the
film, and this is shown in the way that his life is transformed by his
friendship with Andy.However, there were a few things about this film that I didn't like that I
think took a lot away from it. For example, even though I admit that it
didn't reduce the potency of the film itself, everything worked out a little
too perfectly for Andy in prison. Sure, he got beaten up and sexually
assaulted, but look at the aftermath of those attacks. When the "Sisters"
beat him within an inch of his life, did he get his nose broken? Was he left
with any scars? Were any of his limbs casted? Did he even develop a limp?
No, what happened was he spent a month in the infirmary and got out with his
hair messed up. That's a pretty small price to pay for almost being beaten
to death. I also find it hard to believe that every single guard in the prison,
including the warden, would allow a prisoner to do their taxes. Sure, he's
got expertise in the banking field, but he's also been convicted of murder.
I would think that the warden in particular, with all of his, ahem,
activities, would want to kind of keep to himself as far as his finances.
Another problem was the timeline. We see events that take place over long
periods of time, but we are largely left to speculate about what goes on in
the years that are skipped over. The film comes together as a great story,
but you have to keep in mind that in between scenes that seem to run
together, YEARS have gone by. The aging process wasn't done very well
either. All of the characters involved looked almost exactly the same at the
beginning of the movie as they did at the end. When that many years have
passed, something needs to be done to try to make the actors look at least a
little bit older.Aside from these minor deficiencies, as well as a confusing title, The
Shawshank Redemption is an absolutely incredible film. The setbacks can be
overlooked because of the fact that the film as a whole communicates such an
important and powerful message, and the film is not boring even for a
second. It's intense, it's beautifully made, and it will not soon be
forgotten.

******
9 August 2008
7
This is what I'd call a "very good" film. But to think that people
consider this better than... just for a few examples... all the
wonderful Hitchcock, Kurosawa, Fellini, Bergman, Leone and Welles films
is shocking. The fact that "The Dark Knight" is higher on this list
than "The Shawshank Redemption" is equally shocking. "The Shawshank
Redemption" is ranked higher than "The Godfather," for Christ's sake!!!
Of course, this is a list based on popular taste... not "high culture."
I have plenty of problems with high culture, myself. But I have even
more problems calling this one of the greatest films ever made. Frank
Darabont isn't even a GOOD director. He's turned out three solid
films... and then a bunch of crap. His "solid films" are pretty
hamfisted and corny. But then people continue to like crap like "Gone
with the Wind" to this very day.It's amazing to think people like this film better than... say... "Taxi
Driver." It tells you something. Anyway, I could go on and on like
this. If you enjoyed "The Shawshank Redemption," it would be
hypocritical for me to fault you that. After all, I liked it, too.I don't mean this comment to be helpful to those considering watching
the film. I mean it to be thought-provoking for those who appreciate
the history of great cinema.

******
26 June 2006
3
A fair number of the movies that rank high on this site's top 250 all
time list also share a parallel 'life' as literature, so let's start
there.The book "Rita Hayworth, etc..." is the best of the 'Different Seasons'
tetralogy. King adhered to the first person perspective, which is a
challenge: the narrator can only know what comes into his range of
perception. You as the reader have to decide if you trust him, and so
on. King wrote this in the early hand-to-mouth period of his existence
-- and what do we have? A prisoner who persistently writes to his
benefactors for 'more funding'.Darabont didn't have the skill necessary to really offer anything of
artistic value here. We're stuck with borrowings: parts of "Convict
99", "Gilda", "Brubaker", "Birdman of Alcatraz"; musically, the
"Marriage of Figaro" aria -- it's actually not a bad bit of
self-reference. It's the only good visual part here, and even that is
smothered by the narration; literarily, Dumas' "...Monte Cristo"...The book does a good job of playing with the readers' expectations and
using irony. There's no preaching. And it ends far more intelligently
than this does; the denouement here seems to belong in a different
movie altogether.This isn't a bad movie; considering the obscene amount of money
invested in these things, it's hard to find a truly bad movie any more
-- one with no cinematic value at all -- that wasn't the case 20 - 30
years ago. But there's no way I can love it. It just isn't the sort of movie that
resonates with *me*, because the story is just 'there' with no life of
its own.

******
12 February 2005
5
I did not see a "goof" submission area, so I feel compelled to comment
on this movie's fatal flaws.Andy's cell was consistently laid out even right up to the night of his
escape as he sat on his bed staring at the Rachel Welch poster. There
in lies the flaw. If Andy crawled through his snug tunnel as depicted,
with his clothes in tow, how did he get that poster to lay so flat to
where it even appeared to be glued to the wall? It was so flat that
even the Warden's commotion (rock throwing) in an open-air cell never
moved that poster once. Given that, what about the sanitation pipe area
that was equally open and subject to drafts and air movements, which
would have easily moved the poster. Nailing, tacking, Velcro, and
taping are out too. Even if he had tried to exit feet first he would
have had to move some furniture, given the height of the tunnel's
access off the ground. The guard found nothing unusual in the cell, as
if Andy had vanished into thin air!The sanitary pipe leaves a lot to be desired as well. A thick-walled
pipe of that diameter would need to be saw-cut in two places and have
the section removed in order to allow enough room for Andy's body to
fit. Armed with only a rock it would have taken Andy another year to
get through the pipe. The director would have been better off
installing a manhole access.Last but not least, the wool suit Andy wears in the bank looks
spectacular for being crumpled up in a plastic bag only hours before
the bank opened. Given the location of his rain soaked prison clothes
and the time of day after a 500 yard crawl, Andy would have hastily
changed in the rain and that suit would have been ruined. Unless he was
packing a London Fog topcoat with him he would have had to make a visit
to a dry cleaner and had a two-day wait on his clothes at best. I wish
he would pack for me on my trips!"Redemption" is a good movie, but not a great one.

******
16 January 2004
5

the all-time #2 is WAY high for this flick. NO great acting
performances(they're OK but not a miracle!!!!) the story lacks logic in
parts and the final sequence is a little too much. very good movie to
watch
a must see anytime but NOT all-time #2

******
29 August 1999
3

Satisfying, good movie, but the only great part of this movie is the
magnificent performance by Morgan Freeman. An apparently inspired Tim
Robbins rises above his very mediocre talent and delivers an adequate
performance. Ham-handed attempts at profundity in every scene get tiring as
is the use of every prison movie device, character, and cliche in the
history of hollywood. 

******
3 April 1999
5

I really can't explain why this movie does absolutely nothing for me.  It
has a great cast that turns in some good performances, and the story is
compelling; however, I always feel so empty after I see it.  I get a
similar
vibe from FORREST GUMP and TERMS OF ENDEARMENT, to name a couple others.
I
can't really figure out why.

******
9 September 2006
2
Well, after all the glory this film has had, I decided to watch it. And
for my opinion, it wasn't that great. Was it the hype, I don't know..I
just didn't like that much to esteem the movie as #2 in IMDb top 250
list. It was just as boring as Stephen King's book are. Afer all,
acting was great, I have no bad things say about that, it's only a bad
script, for my opinion. Nowadays, when there's such realistic prison
descriptions, as OZ and Prison break, this one doesn't give the spark.
For a good prison movie I reckon the following: If you wanna see a good
prison movie, you should watch ' Blood In Blood Out ', If you haven't
had a chance already. Now, there's a reality check and a great movie,
which haven't lost it's best-before date, like this one has.

******
21 August 2002
2

I have no idea, why this movie has received such a good rating. It´s an
average prison movie without any highlights. Typical Hollywood stuff.
There
are hundreds of better movies around.
The movie drags, the actors are average. It´s just this typical
"heartbreaking" stuff and far away from other movies up on this
list.

******
25 December 2003
3

Last week, I had seen "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King" and I
feel it is one of the best movies ever made, especially in these hard to
entertain folks at the movies for $10 a seat times. I couldn't understand
how some, as minority as their voices were, could not like that
film.That was until I decided to sit down and write how I feel about this film.In the 9 years since it has come out, I have attempted to watch it 12 times.
Three of those times, I slept through it. I finally took some extra caffine
Coke and gave it a twirl -- twice. Sorry, I just didn't warm up to this
film. Robbins and Freeman's acting was good, but I guess the story wasn't
original -- or surprising to me. I just didn't care about these guys, nor
anyone else. It's prison. The guilty as well as the innocent are there -- I
get that concept. Sometimes you're released after serving time, sometimes
you're not. You make friends...fine. I dunno, kinda reminds me of 4 years of
High School or college I guess. I just don't care about those folks no
matter what we all did together once I got out, which is why I just didn't
care about these and wondered why they should. Move on. Thanks for sharing.
Snooze.First I thought, I might not be a big "prison" entertainment fan, but then I
remembered one of my favorite films is "Birdman of Alcatraz" (which I
thought much from this film owes homage to), I really fell in love with "The
Green Mile" (which was more on King's level than this) and I actually sat
through a few seasons of HBO's "Oz" which was gritty and scary, to say the
least. I give everything a chance, in fact -- several chances. But sometimes
not all things appeal to all people. For me, this was one of them. (If
you're wondering, "Reservoir Dogs" is another.)The point is...as I was going to write awful things to those few folks who
didn't like "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King", I find myself
here at "The Shawshank Redemption", and now I am able to stand where they
were -- for a moment -- in the minority.All things are not wonderful to all people.And that's....a good thing.

******
31 August 2004
3

This movie is absurdly overrated by people who think soppy affirmative
moviemaking accompanied by a lush score is synonymous with aesthetic
brilliance.    The direction is nothing to write home about, the cinematography is,
frankly, standard.  The script has Steven King written all over it - a
melodramatic plot involving the woes of an educated bloke told in
overwrought dialogue full of clumsy metaphors.  (A good example: the moment
when the scriptwriter decided that the prisoner's interest in geology had to
be spelled out for the dumber members of the audience "It's all about TIME
and PRESSURE..." just in case anyone managed to miss the connection). 
Morgan Freeman is, as usual, superb but Tim Robbins is inconsistent as a man
who goes from being the gaol newcomer to an old hand.  While the film's
sympathetic liberal political stance can be commended, it's certainly not a
great work of art.

******
6 April 2006
4
I'm not going to tip toe around it, this film is crap. Its completely
unoriginal, its not artistic, its not demanding (except for being
boring). You will not learn anything about the world through this film.This film is not a part cinematic history, unlike nearly all other
films in the top 250. It is predictable and emotional crap.But even if your not into cinema, and you just like popcorn
entertainment there are far better movies out there...basically any on
the video shelf.

******
13 January 2004
3

The acting is adequate, the story is adequate, but why all the
fuss?It sometimes baffles me why some movies get such high ratings when they
are
really only run of the mill.This is not that bad a film, just seen it all before.

******
30 July 2015
7
Christopher Nolan brings yet another adrenaline-filled, comic-inspired
movie to the big screen. We see all sorts of familiar faces this time
around, but the audience is introduced to a few new characters as well.
When crisis threatens Gotham City, Bruce Wayne jumps back into the
Batmobile to fight crime. Batman is joined on his quest by an eager
orphaned cop (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), a seductive cat burglar (Anne
Hathaway), and a violent masked villain (Tom Hardy). This film served
as great entertainment with its colorful cast and numerous plot twists.
Nolan used actors that had either appeared in previous Batman films or
in his blockbuster hit Inception, and all of them shone in their
respective roles: Tom Hardy was almost unrecognizable in his Bane
costume, while Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Marion Cotillard were both
excellentand obviously comfortable with Nolan's directing style and
the film's dramatic tone.

******
10 October 2012
5
In 1946, a banker named Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of a
double murder, even though he stubbornly proclaims his innocence. He's
sentenced to a life term at the Shawshank State Prison in Maine, where
another lifer, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), picks him as the
new recruit most likely to crack under the pressure. The ugly realities
of prison life are quickly introduced to Andy: a corrupt warden (Bob
Gunton), sadistic guards led by Capt. Byron Hadley (Clancy Brown), and
inmates who are little better than animals, willing to use rape or
beatings to insure their dominance. But Andy does not crack: he has the
hope of the truly innocent, which (together with his smarts) allow him
to prevail behind bars. He uses his banking skills to win favor with
the warden and the guards, doing the books for Norton's illegal
business schemes and keeping an eye on the investments of most of the
prison staff. In exchange, he is able to improve the prison library and
bring some dignity and respect back to many of the inmates, including
Red. Based on a story by Stephen King, The Shawshank Redemption was the
directorial debut of screenwriter Frank Darabont. ~ Mark Deming, Rovi

******
5 June 2012
8
This film is no. 1 on the top 250. I would have to disagree with that.
The reason why I don't think it deserves to be 1 or even 25 for that
manner is...Tim Robbins acting and this might be coming from a biased
point of view because I have never liked Tim Robbins in any one of his
films. I have never liked him because of his slow delivery that makes
him sound a little bit like Robert De Niro in Awakenings. Also another
reason I don't think it deserves to be no. 1 is because of it's plot.
This plot is completely unoriginal. I mean wow an African-American man
and a white man become friends in pre civil-rights movement America.
One of the few things I did enjoy was the whole middle part (i'll try
not to give too much away.) The middle part consists of Morgan Freeman
getting out of jail and searching for Andy Dufrane (Tim Robbins). Also
one of the few things that is fantastic about this film is the
supporting acting and the Directing of this film. Overall I would put
"Shawshank" at about 35 on this list.

******
27 July 2008
6
I can see why this movie is loved because it is moving and a great
emotional experience, however #2 on the IMDb 250. Is this madness? It
doesn't deserve to be mentioned in the same sentence as the Godfather.
In comparison to the Godfather lets see:1. Is it better directed than the Godfather? Not even nearly close come
on this movie didn't even get a nomination while Coppola has directed a
masterpiece for all time.2. Is it better Acted than the Godfather? Please Morgan Freedman vs.
Brando No question and the Godfather has better supporting actors all
around.3. Better Screenplay? That is a joke, Mario Puzo owns it4. Better Music? Forget about the Godfather music is famous.5. So is it all around? not a chanceAs for the movie overall, I did like it but it is good not GREAT. I
found it moving and a good film for the triumph of human spirit (its
not better than a flew over the cuckoo's nest either) and I found it to
be a good movie. On AFI's top 100 list, it was at 72 which is a more
appropriate for it. I only compared to the Godfather because the
Godfather and Shawshank are in the battle for #1 when its no contest.
The ending was a fairy tale too. Yeah sure people always break out of
jail with a rock chipper and then move to Mexico with their pal that
they met in the joint. Please.

******
14 July 2010
4
The condition of the human soul. Many movies have done it better. The
reviews embrace only what they know...why don't they know more? Tom
Hanks is OK. Everything about this movie is OK...but only OK. IMDb herd
mentality. Internet clickings etc...Learn something about truth. Shaw s
hank is missing something. There are much better social justice movies.
The ridiculously high rating on the net only shows the net isn't all
that its cracked up to be. There is no one in this cast that would put
this movie ahead of TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD...so why do you? The internet
is filled with fools with keyboards. If you believe that this movie is
superior to TKAM ...it only speaks to your access to a
computer...nothing more. The internet is dead. Reality killed the
internet star. Ooops. LOL.

******
15 March 2006
6
First of all I am by no means a Shawshank hater nor I'm I here to troll
the film or its fans for it being ranked this high on the IMDb top 250.
Shawshank I must say is a rather enjoyable watch with a decent
performance from Tim Robbins, a particular good one from Morgan
Freeman, a decent storyline and a nice ending. However that said I
would not put it anywhere near my top 50 movies list and I'm pretty
sure I could name at least 30 films, twenty of which are not even
ranked in the 250 that are IMO way better than Shawshank in their use
of story telling and making you study them in your head even after
you've watched them many times. It would perhaps be safe to say that
what ever it does for many other people it just didn't do for me. The
story was fairly predictable from start to finish and although I did
appreciate its ending I found it to be too much your typical Hollywood
sort of ending where every things happy and all loose ends have been
tied up etc. I've now seen this movie four times and I must say I still
find it to be very overrated, when I see it voted number two of all
time then I think of how there are so many other movies out there not
even in the 250. Oh well I guess popularity polls can never be just the
way one would like them to be. Overall I give The Shawshank Redemption
6/10 stars I would have given it a seven or a eight only with the
amount of high votes and rankings its got over the years on this site,
I just felt it wasn't in need of such charity. As stated above a very
enjoyable prison drama but just nowhere near in the same league as The
Godfather, Star Wars and The Lord of the Rings trilogies. But hey thats
only my opinion and thats what makes us all different isn't it?

******
28 March 2006
5
When i first saw this I came away thinking it was an entertaining piece
of movie making but nothing particularly special. I simply cannot
understand why it features so highly in many top movie listings. Yes
the story is good and has a nice happy ending. Andy is a character who
is easy to identify with against the nefarious, sadistic warden. This
unchallenging hackneyed dichotomy is helped by Andy's buddies vs the
nasty gang who's leader is intent on a slightly different kind of
relationship with Andy.The actors all shine and it's well photographed but is simply nothing
special, it certainly doesn't warrant it's apparent stellar position in
film history. I think it is the most overrated film of all time, no
question. It isn't even a standout in it's own genre and is way way too
long in it's telling of a tale that is unoriginal and intellectually
undemanding .

******
10 September 2005
5
I still cannot understand this films continued high regard. Yes, it's a
good drama and the acting is pretty solid if unspectacular. But it is
the most sickly saccharine and clichéd movie I have ever scene, which
often throws logic straight out of the window.The depiction of prison life is pretty ridiculous. Different races all
getting on fine, apart from the small group of 'bad guys'. The ending
is absolutely awful. If it had ended with red getting released it would
have been marginally better. However, to do the typical Hollywood thing
of explaining exactly what happens is just rubbish. Note to Hollywood,
we can use our brains! I think this film is 2nd in the IMDb Top 250,
can someone please explain why? It's a very average film and be warned
it will make you sick with its cheesiness!

******
27 July 2005
4
It's predictable from the first to the last minute. I can't believe
it's second in worldwide history. Well... first is other predictable
movie (The Nerd of the Ring). This situation reminds me of Brave New
World. One of the future citizens in there goes to a theater to see a
movie with "the savage". The future and civilized man (or woman, I
don't remember) is fascinated with it. But the Savage tries to make him
notice that the plot was a truly rubbish, truly predictable and truly
untruly. Now, what's the problem? ALL THE MOVIES ARE EQUALS. So, the
future one can't distingue and decide in a correct way. He has NO
OPTION. That's what is going on here. And not only in movies...

******
6 May 2005
4
When I first saw this movie in 1994, before the hype, I thought it was
a passable flick; nothing special and certainly in keeping with the
usual schmaltz expected from any non-horror Stephen King work. In fact,
with the exception of Morgan Freeman's excellent performance, I found
it imminently forgettable. Then, lo, came the Academy Awards with a
surprising nomination for Best Picture. Then, even worse, came the
belated hype from its legion of fans. I could not understand this
adoration of a movie that was as sugar-coated as that other saccharine
movie of 94, Forrest Gump. Worse than Gump's unpalatable cuteness,
however, was Shawshank's genre clichés: the rape scene, the prisoner's
pet, etc. Had no-one seen Escape From Alcatraz or Birdman of Alcatraz?
For me, Shawshank is possibly the most overrated film ever made, a fact
emphasised by its place at No. 2 in the IMDb top 250.

******
17 December 1998
10

Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were splendid in this look at the horrors of
prison life. Great camera work, acting, and a believable script led to a
realistic feeling movie. This is only the second King book that made a good
film; "The Stand" being the other. 

******
11 March 2004
5

I'm sorry but I just don't get the big deal over this movie. It is pure melodramatic schmaltz.  Give me Cool Hand Luke or Papillon any
day.  Or how about Scum or even Chopper.I have to admit I felt the same way about The Green Mile, maybe it's just
Stephen King's view of prison I don't like.  As if he has a
clue!I think he should just stick with the coming of age stuff (loved Stand By
Me) and the isolated looneys (The Shining), things he can obviously relate
to.  Leave prison stories to the folks who actually leave their
house.

******
1 December 2012
7
This film is nicely told, ably acted, and neatly directed. It is an
eminently watchable movie. But what on Earth is it doing listed as the
highest rated film on IMDb? Yes, this film is better than average, but
not much, much better.There is an interesting twist to the way that this film approaches its
story. Its narrative building blocks are those of the familiar all-male
prison tale, but the script operates like an old-fashioned Hollywood
women's picture. This allows the movie to explore a series of
melodramatic situations, but to people these situations with just men.
As a result, even as the movie acts tough, it relentlessly explores its
characters' unsatisfied emotional needs. Lots of opportunities for
restrained male tears ensue, often to good effect.I know that my next comment is going to anger a lot of readers, but
this film's exceedingly high rating on IMDb explains why cultural
elites, and not the masses, end up determining which works of art have
lasting value. When everyone's voice is equal, non-offensive, but
merely better-than-average movies such as this one rocket to to the top
of the list. It's like when every judge's third choice ends up winning
because each judge's first and second choices were daring works that
ended up being at least one other judge's last choice. Rating films by
committee clearly does not work.Again, this is not a bad movie, but it is most certainly not the best
film ever made.

******
7 May 2012
2
It seems that every time a movie comes out with an exceedingly positive
and uplifting message or story, the average moviegoer is blind to any
other problems or shortcomings the film might have. Every moment of
this film feels phony and hollow. The character of Red (Morgan Freeman)
is just a vehicle to keep the plot moving and doesn't seem to even
exist as a whole person. His narration is embarrassing with its phony
regional dialect and forced folksiness. The prison life depicted, while
brutal and violent in a few scenes, is overromanticized by the
picturesque cinematography and florid music. The plot is fairly clever
but, like bad American television, everything that happens is in
service of the plot. There's no behavior from the characters that
doesn't help bring you to the film's stunningly maudlin final scene.
And there are logistical problems, like the fact that you can't make a
hole in a thick metal sewer pipe by hitting it with a rock three times.
They could have solved this problem by just showing a shot of a clock
moving forward. The best character is a relatively brief and peripheral
one, Brooks (James Whitmore). Whitmore doesn't seem to know he's in
such a shallow, contrived movie and gives the character a realism and
three-dimensionality the other characters don't have in his short time
on screen. In the montage-type scene in which he's trying to cope with
life out of prison, however, he suddenly seems less intelligent and
more of a stereotype of a befuddled old man. Tim Robbins as Andy
Dufresne is somewhere between good and mediocre, seeming to force weird
expressions onto his face like he just read the character description
in the script for the first time. Bob Gunton as Warden Norton is
over-the-top and seemingly one-dimensional, but it works because
Bible-thumpers are often over-the-top and seemingly one-dimensional.
He's actually believable and interesting to watch. The prison guard
Hadley (Clancy Brown) is realistically sadistic, but his type of
comically crude sexual language sounds too contemporary for the time.
The final scene is just so unrealistically over-the-top happy and sunny
it's an insult to the viewer's intelligence and, I think, ruins much of
the film. This film obviously has developed a huge following over the
years, but I think that's largely just because of it's sentiment of
hopefulness and positivity, and that doesn't necessarily indicate a
well-written, well-executed, well-acted film. Some of the worst crap in
theatres and on television has a hopeful, inspiring, uplifting message.
Of course a film doesn't have to depict a realistic world. In fact, I
like surrealism in movies. But it should at least show an interesting
version of a world, and to keep any intelligent viewer's attention the
characters have to be fully realized, seemingly existing in a world
outside of the film's plot.

******
17 July 2008
4
This film is much overrated. it is a typical Hollywood film. there is
not at one time any surprise in the whole plot. everything happens as
you expect it. everybody loves this guy, everybody wants to help him.
he of course is shy and always nice. the sound makes the film more
awful than great. too sentimental. too cheap. the film is like a fairy
tale. and yes, there are enough good films about prisons. like Brubaker
with Robert Redford, sleepers, or even the worse film with Sylvester
Stallone, in which a prisoner gets a chance to drive a car for the
first time in his life in the midst of the prison. wow, super
sentimental. not a good story though. this is nothing new. and the
dialogs or monologues of Morgan Freeman are nice, i admit. but, well,
cant compete with texts of good books. so, not the best quality. the
plot also is very simple. the guards are very bad guys, the director is
corrupt. every time the same story. nothing original. so i think that
9,1 points is very too much. there are enough films with a better
message and plot, and whatever. the actors also aren't so superior.
it's a typical Hollywood film, like i said. with a hero, with a lot of
sentimental music, and other things which the average person likes in
Hollywood movies. not a classic.

******
7 July 2007
5
this film got a 5/10 because i thought the film was too long. the
storyline wasn't even that good. there is some sad bits though. i don't
recommend this film to be watched when tired, because it makes you fall
to sleep. good acting by Morgan freeman. a highlight of the film is it
does contain some interesting theories of life. the best part of the
film is the ending,very touching i also enjoyed the ending because, it
meant i could go to sleep. so overall not a good film, i think its over
rated. thats all i have to say on this boring film.. i hope you reading
this comment has stopped you from watching this film because its a
waste of your time. 143 minutes to be precise.

******
3 January 1999
5

I wait for the day when this film is no longer in the top 200 of IMDb, as it
deserves.  Please, if any film was passed over in favor of Gump at the 1995
Oscars--it was the best film of the nineties--PULP FICTION.

******
16 February 2005
5
I saw this film only once and I immediately started to hate it from the
very beginning. The director did a horrible job on creating this piece
of crap! Whoever watched this piece of crap is just weird!! Hopefully
nobody has to go through the pain that I had to go through because the
only reason that I watched the movie is because at my house we have a
movie night and it so happens that the movie my family and me watched
this crap!! I wanted to go up-stairs and watch a movie on my TV but my
mom said no, so because of that I had to watch crap!! I am sorry to
anybody who liked this film but it was just plain retarded. Do not be
offended if I upset your feelings though!! Sorry!!

******
30 October 2005
4
This film should barely scratch out a spot in the top 250, let alone be
one of the top ranked films of all time. It is rather dull,
extraordinarily predictable, and filled with clichés. This is not even
the best prison film, let alone #2 among all films! Cool Hand Luke or
Papillon anyone? I'd give it a 7-8/10 (Freeman & Co. do not
disappoint), but someone needs to bring down this bloated rating. The
film is little more than a rehashing of conventional sentimentalism
painted in prison stripes and sold in bulk to a (apparently) gullible
audience. Help bring this down to a reasonable position so that more
deserving films can attain their proper recognition.

******
12 January 2005
5
What is this movie is doing in the top ten? Its a good movie. By good I
mean - you go to see it and you walk out saying - that was a good
movie. Then you may watch it again because you remember enjoying it the
first time. On the third viewing you are beginning to tire of it and
the characters seem more contrived and you begin to see how the script
has some flaws. Still - all and all - its better than most. A great
movie (and there are many) is a movie that no matter how many times you
watch it you marvel at the script - the performances - the music - all
the things we love about the movies. The Shawshank Redemption doesn't
come close. Well made, good performances, but not great and not
deserving of being on ANY top ten movie list of all time.

******
27 July 2003
2

This is quite far from being the best movie of all time. The characters
are
black and white in true blockbuster tradition. Everybody is either all
good
or all evil, and do not at all feel real. The plot is unoriginal (although
it has a surprise ending, that's hardly original scriptwriting) The film
is
extremely cliche-ridden, and I don't recommend it to anyone who appreciate
truly great films like the three colors trilogy etc.

******
15 November 2001
6

In the long and storied history of cinema, there have always been those
films, which are undoubtly overrated.  However, none before and none since
have been more overrated then The Shawshank Redemption.  While the Shawshank
Redemption is not a waste of your viewing times by any means, it is not the
pinnacle of film making.  The performances are good, especially Freeman, but
I'm not too high on the way the plot works out.  It doesn't really break any
new ground, a man is wrongfully convicted of a crime he didn't commit(Wow,
that's new!!), and learns to cope with his new circumstances, while
befriending the prison veterans.  While the audience learns a valuable
lesson about the determination and courage of the human spirit!  I don't
know about you all, but when Robbins escapes from prison during a dramatic
thunderstorm, there were more then a few tears coming down my face.  When I
see something like this rated in the top 10 films of the 1990s let alone of
all time, I have to wonder about people's taste in general.  The message of
the movie isn't incredibly powerful nor is the plot.  How can anyone
consciously say this movie was the best ever?  It boggles my mind, but I
have a few theories.  First this movie is recent enough and shown on TNT
enough (like 5 times a month), that alot of people have seen it more then
once.  Younger people (I'm talking teens and twenties), who haven't seen
many Dramas let alone the real "great" movies, will say this is the best.
If you ask this same demographic what is the best comedy of all time, they
are likely to say something like Happy Gilmore (which Caddyshack blows out
of the water for best golf comedy).  These are the kinds of people giving
Shawshank it's highest praise, these people are sadly my generation.

******
14 November 2012
6
Well maybe its WHY soap operas last a long time...because there is a
HUGE market for them, that is why this movie has 9 stars don't get me
wrong its a fine movie, but #1 not a chance.I suggest u expand your horizons with European and Asian movies or good
classic us movies, cultivate yourself a little.By the way Morgan freeman is badly directed at times overactedGood script but then again is designed to emotionally impress you not
to transcend youGood for housewives and newbies with very little repertoire in film
watchingI guess its expected

******
24 April 2008
6
I enjoyed this movie, but I still regard it as one of the most vastly
over-rated films of all time. The villains in the film were
2-dimensional caricatures. There were no shades of gray in this film
whatsoever. I can accept such villains when some element of the fairy
tale, some element of the supernatural is introduced. For instance, it
was okay for Chigurh to be cartoonish in No Country For Old Men because
he was clearly supposed to be a symbol, a force of nature. The warden
in Shawshank Redemption, on the other hand, isn't a force of nature,
merely a poorly-written character. Honestly, the Shawshank Redemption was absorbing, but it wasn't a
"great film" (in the capital-letters sense) by any stretch of the
imagination.

******
25 January 2010
6
I looked on the IMDb list of the "top 250." This movie is number 1 on
the list. That is way overrated. I can tell you that it was a good
movie and deserves to be watched but it is not the best movie. Great
acting makes this film enjoyable but the movie at times becomes boring
and predictable. Good movie but not "fantastic" like many people seem
to think. I enjoyed many other movies on the top 250 more than this
film. If you want a great movie on the list check out The incredibles
or the wrestler or toy story. They are better films in my opinion. Good
movie but not fantastic like many people think. Way
overrated!!!!!!!!!!!!!

******
8 January 2009
7
Just having registered with IMDb, I thought a good movie to start my
reviewing with would be the one which users have rated the best of the
best. This is one of my favorite films & over the years I have watched
it or portions of it whenever it happening to be playing on TV,
probably mustering up a good 20-30 viewings to the point that I thought
I could nearly recite the films dialogue word for word. That anyone
could rate any film 10 out of 10 I figure is more a function of the
mind of the viewer, and its penchant for exaggeration after watching a
film which happens to induce some powerful emotions in him, rather than
any inherent perfection in the piece. Whatever the truth may be I offer
here some reasons why this particular film, although moving and well
made in it's own right, cannot be the best film made by the hands of
man.#6: It seemed to me that the evidence for convicting Andy at the
beginning was badly inadequate. There was no murder weapon found & no
prints of his found inside the building the murders took place. His
story was consistent, and though he had motive for getting wasted and
driving around, its a big step to murder, and what guilty man freely
admits he had a gun and planned on using it to scare the adulterers,
when on trial for his life? An upright, honest man with faith and trust
in the judicial system, thats who. Small wonder he was so shocked to
here the judge give his sentence. And who was Andy's lawyer, Lionel
Hutz?, did they not dust the murder scene for prints to give an idea of
a possible involvement from another party etc?#5: The night he decides to escape just happens to be a stormy one with
loud peals of thunder perfectly disguising his rocking the sewage line?
c'mon!#4: The guy has been in the same cell for 19 years. All the time an
enormous poster has been draped over the subway tunnel like hole to
freedom he has been digging away at each night. No guard in that span
felt he might have a curious peek-a-boo under the poster during the
cell checks?#3: I was a little incredulous at the good faith the warden seemed to
show Andy after he had completed his 2nd warden ordered ordeal in the
hole. "Its good to have you back Andy, place has'nt been the same
without you" Did the warden remember putting Andy in the hole in the
1st place, for pleading and proving his innocence to him, remember
having the man shot who could have restored Andy's life, I thought a
man smart enough to contrive all of the fraudulent operations that were
making the warden rich would at least merit a small deal of suspicion
from the warden. "what else might this man be capable of?"#2: Andy's job on the outside was as a banker not a priest, the movie
continues to show how clever he is and flexible at making the most of
his limited resources in the joint, but when and how did he find time
to memorize that enormous book that is the bible? passage for passage,
line for line? his mastery of this difficult book is shown in giving
the exact chapter and line reference after the warden quotes him a
segment of the book. Perhaps that is why his wife wanted to leave him,
after work he was up all night till 4am memorizing segments of the
bible, but more likely not.#1: Finally and I thought most implausibly, the new guy Andy taught to
read and write just happened to have the information on the "real
killer" For this to happen I thought the following chance happenings
would have to conspire: 1: he happens to share a cell with the killer
at some other prison 2: the killer chooses to tell him that he killed a
couple & a banker got the blame for it 3: he finds himself in another
prison where Andy resides 4: of the many convicts, he happens to form a
friendship with red and Andy and their small crew 5: red happens to
spill the beans about Andy's crime to him I thought all this was a
little unlikelyIn summary, great movie, great dialogue, excellent performances, and
great vindication of the power of hope, the rewards of perseverance and
the importance of sticking to ones core values regardless of external
circumstances, not the best of the best, but what is? 7 out of 10

******
10 September 1998
6

An UNDER-RATED movie?? Gimme a break! This is one of the most over-rated
movies on IMDB! 8.7, what a joke! This movie is boring, plain and simple.
You want to watch a movie 5 times so that you can put the pieces together
and finally get it, fine. I'd rather watch a movie that was actually more
entertaining than a jigsaw puzzle.

******
13 August 2008
2
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman to very good actors star in this movie
about Tim wrongfully accused and sent to prison where he befriends
Morgan Freeman. I mean it was a good movie and a i liked it, it just
didn't blow me away and I guess thats how I rate a movie from Good or
Great, I like it don't get me wrong, its just i didn't get the same
feeling i get from other great movies, it didn't have me thinking about
the character, whats happening next, it wasn't riveting, it was kinda
slow I guess just dragging from scene to scene. To be perfectly honest
I would personally rank this movie at like an 8.1 - 8.2, I guess I just
kinda figured that he would get out, and a movie like that where you
can pretty much guess whats going to happen there is much to stay and
watch, I didn't feel they would leave the movie with him in prison and
thats pretty much what did it for me.I mean this is purely my opinion,
I know some people who love this movie and they bring up their valid
points, but right now I am sharing my point of view with everyone about
this movie.

******
11 October 2010
3
Let me start by stating that this is one of the most sad, poignant and
beautiful films I've seen since Paranormal Entity. I feet that Tom
Hanks' portrayal of a bored police officer was cutting edge at the time
and has yet to be surpassed by any actor in any film since, excluding
Shane Van Dyke's potentially career defining performance in Shane Van
Dyke's Paranormal Entity (written by Shane Van Dyke). Michael Clarke
Duncan's interpretation of the character John Cofey was banal to say
the least, but I was more than compensated for this error in judgement
with two deliciously witty comedy set pieces. One was where a rat got
knocked out and one was where he forgot to put a sponge on his head. As
an aside, I enjoyed the skit in which Michael Clarke Duncan refused to
give Moon's Sam Rockwell a slice of bread and the bit where Tom Hanks
couldn't take a wazz.In conclusion, I award this film 2 golden skulls. Half a star for the
scene where the rat dies, and one star for Tim Robins crawling through
a crapper. I am also awarding the film two golden skulls for the scene
in which Tom Hanks bangs his wife after John Cofey heals him.Overall - 3 golden skulls (Paranormal Entity earned 9 golden skulls)
cheers

******
6 June 2012
2
Let me start out by stating the fact that I am a HUGE Morgan Freeman
fan. I absolutely adore most of his work, however, The Shawshank
Redemption is the only exception as to just how far my love of Morgan
Freeman will go. First of all, in the opening scene, when Morgan is
getting rubbed down by two husky white men in the shower, the hot water
handle should be facing the LEFT, unless this film was shot in Canada
or Utah, I see no reason for this subtle inaccuracy. Second, why did
Bruce Willis decide to concentrate his fire strictly on the escapees of
the prison?! Why not on the inmates that were tucked safely in their
cells?! Finally, the third and final problem that I had with this
movie, is this: Hadley is arrested for murder, crying like a little
girl as he is taken away, while the Warden decides to shoot his brains
out.While the others would talk about Andy's exploits, Red just
listens. One day he receives a blank postcard from the Border, knowing
that his friend made it there in one piece.Red manages to pass the next
parole hearing with an angry honesty that was missing from his past
meetings, and is sent to the halfway house used by Brooks. He is lost
on the outside and would like to return to Shawshank, but instead he
fulfills his promise to Andy, and follows his friend's plan to find the
tree he mentioned, and a black box containing a wad of money and a
letter.Red breaks the law to violate his parole, and takes the bus down
to the border. At the end, on the beaches of Zihuatanejo, we see Andy
working on a boat, about to be joined by another free man, Red.
Honestly, if you're even considering watching this movie, please spend
your time elsewhere. It's terrible.

******
11 October 2001
2

The Shawshank Redemption is an exciting and very emotional excursion. It is
the best "jail" movie ever made, for sure. There's suspense, surprises, and
more, but it's true greatness is in it's show of the human spirit
triumphing
over impossible odds. With a pair of great actors and a very nice script,
The Shawshank Redemption winds up getting a 10/10 from
me.

******
12 August 2008
7
May be one of the best movies of cinema history. But for television
audience. Not for cinema audience. You can watch that movie on TV
always. But one in time in movie theater is enough, not second time.
It'a not a The Godfather or The Dark Knight..I have seen many movies. And I have my personal Top 1000 list, like
IMDb. And this movie set on the first 50, but not on first 10 or 20. I
have seen twice that movie on DVD, but only one time in cinema. On the
other hand, I have seen The Matrix 6 times, Braveheart 2 times, The
Lord of the Rings Trilogy 10 times (whole three movies completely),
Memento 2 times, The Dark Knight 3 times, and etc.. People likes that
movie, but not adore..

******
14 July 2000
10

This film is probably the best life-in-prison film ever made.  It depicts
one man's time in the big house for something he (supposedly) didn't do. 
This man is Andy Dusfresne (pronounced Duframe) played in his best ever, Tim
Robbins.  But he isn't alone; he is joined by fellow inmate (who is the only
guilty person in Shawshank) Red played also very well by Morgan Freeman. 
Freeman narrates the life in The Shawshank prison all the way up until the
end (not to mention some very memorable escape scenes).  Very memorable,
showing what movies are made of.  Based on Stephen King's novel (one of his
best) and adapted for the screen and directed by Frank Darabont, who 5 years
later would write and direct the Green Mile, another good (but can't be
matched to this one) prison movie.  A++

******
21 April 2002
8

Great movie but number 2 all time?  Get real.  Morgan Freeman is great,
Tim
Robbins is at his pinnacle and the screenplay keeps things interesting
throughout.  At times the direction is a bit klunky, and not all of the
supporting characters are believable.  It certainly deserves a place in
the
100 top movies, but not in the top 50.

******
5 October 2004
10

The Shawshank Redemption is a Beautiful, Touching film that can not be
described in words how truly wonderful it is. I mean, come on, what can
I say about this film that hasn't already been said? Everyone I know
(almost everyone) loves this movie. My sister (at the moment) has never
seen this movie! I beg her everyday to watch it with me but she keeps
putting it off. She has NO CLUE what an amazing film she isn't
watching. The impact that this film has had on me, along with everyone
else who has seen it, is massive. This film makes you realize how
wonderful life is and how great people are (even those in jail). It
defines the word Hope better then Webster's dictionary does.Also, it is
in my opinion, the best film adaptation of a Stephen King story.10/10


******
6 January 2007
10
I would just like to begin by saying the Shawshank redemption is one of
the worst movies I have ever seen despite it being number 2 in the IMDb
top 250 list. As I went through the movie, it was so painful, boring
and everything else which makes a boring movie, unbelievably slow
movie. I am aware of the fact that most people had voted this movie as
an ace movie but in my opinion it was the single worst movie i have
ever encountered with. Although I admire the 1 actor in the movie I am
sad to say that for me this movie is a waste of time. I regret ever
watching it. However I would not be able to say "do not watch this
movie" as the voting and the scores point otherwise. In my opinion the
Shawshank Redemption should not even be on the 1-10000 list of the
movies. It was just someone going into prison and making a difference.
I am all for inspirational movies, just not this one. I would rather
sit and stare into a blank spot rather than wasting my time watching
this movie. No offense to the actors as they were not bad but the
script, the story, the screenplay, the time period, nothing suited each
other. I am just expressing how i feel about this movie and my final
words to describe this movie: "DO NOT WATCH".

******
28 February 2009
4
This movie was inspired by the brilliant Stir Crazy starring Gene
Wilder and Richard Pryor. As an essay on prison life, Shawshank
Redemption fails on every level that Stir Crazy managed to succeed on.Shawshank is nowhere near as funny as Stir Crazy. There is not a
woodpecker suited bank robbery to be found. There is no Grossberger, no
homosexual black man hassling the heroes, no silly mania scenes. There
is nothing here that even remotely comes close to emulating its
predecessor.The obvious links to the original are still there: Morgan Freeman in
the Richard Pryor role and Tim Robbins as Gene Wilder. However, Robbins
and Freeman are nowhere near Wilder and Pryor in the acting stakes and
we end up feeling disappointed at their lack of conviction (no pun
intended) in the roles.

******
4 March 2005
10
Fear can hold you prisoner. Hope can set you free. A good tagline for a
great prison drama from writer/director Frank Darabont (The Green
Mile), based on the book by Stephen King. Basically Andy Dufresne (Tim
Robbins) is the lawyer convicted for the murder of his wife, sent to
Shawshank prison, headed by the nasty Warden Samuel Norton (Bob
Gunton). While he is there he is quiet for a while, but eventually he
forms a friendship with black Irish marketeer Ellis Boyd 'Red' Redding
(Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Morgan Freeman, and the character was
originally a white red haired Irishman), retains hope and gains respect
of fellow inmates. After a while, he gets to do a lot of personal work
for the Warden sorting documents, founding a new library and improving
a lot of other things, with his law and mathematical skills. One day
though, he seems strange towards Red when he asks him to find a
specific tree somewhere he knows, and the next morning, he has escaped
(scraping through the soft wall with a chisel). Andy and Red do
eventually find each other again in the happy emotional ending, well,
many moments in the film are emotional. It was a flop in the cinemas,
and since release to video and DVD it has become a favourite with many
film goers. Also starring William Sadler as Heywood, Clancy Brown as
Captain Byron T. Hadley, Gil Bellows as Tommy and James Whitmore as
Brooks Hatlen. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography,
Best Film Editing, Best Music for Thomas Newman, Best Sound, Best
Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best
Picture, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Screenplay.
Morgan Freeman was number 27 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, the film
was number 7 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for the scene where
classical operatic music plays in the prison, it was number 23 on 100
Years, 100 Cheers, it was number 13 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before
You Die, and it was number 3 on The 100 Greatest Films. Outstanding!

******
8 September 2010
8
This movie (The Shawshank Redemption) is not the best ever. What are
people thinking about? Of course it is better than 1 star - but 10????
It is a nice movie, with a fine happy ending. But to make it number one
in the world, is a bit too much. There can be only one number one - and
that is without a doubt The Godfather.Please everyone, try to consider your votes again - I hate to see that
things are not in the right perspective. If IMDb should be accepted as
the world real Bibel for film lovers, The Shawshank Redemption can't be
our top movie. A lot of other movies are far better. Among them; The
Godfather part 2, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, The Fight Club, The
Prestige, Once Upon a Time in The West - and many more. Please change
your votes........

******
8 January 2007
2
This movie is more of a drama than action, but that doesn't matter,
because it would fail in either case. A viewer can accept the cliché of
the wrongly convicted man, but this case is deceptively against the
grain. Our society already has a predisposition to acquit any man of
murdering his wife, a predisposition to think it is impossible, when
the statistics claim the opposite. For that reason alone, this movie is
dangerous propaganda, and most often a lie. The characters never become
believable, mostly because of the reason stated earlier. Also, because
such men don't wind up in prison. The wrongly convicted man always
comes from a different background and class. I can't imagine someone
finding this movie even remotely plausible. In fact, the viewer has no
idea what the "redemption" is. Nothing makes any sense.

******
22 April 2006
4
Boy, this is a very popular film, and one of the reasons Liberals love
it so much - in addition to the fact that it's an interesting story and
well-acted - is the anti- Christian bias in here, which is very strong.You see, the villain, as in almost all modern-day prison films, is the
warden. And, they go out of their way to show you that the despised
hate-filled warden is a Bible Believer, of course. It's repeated and
demonstrated several times as the warden quotes Scripture. And our hero
(Tim Robbins) carves out the middle the Bible to use as a place to hide
a tool for him to escape. Heaven forbid, the Book would be used for him
to actually read! It's no coincidence since this is written by famous
author and Christian-basher Stephen King.Amid the bigotry is an interesting story with two likable lead
characters (the other being Morgan Freeman, whose narration in the film
is superb) and a very satisfying ending. Along the way we get other
clichés, such as the usual sadistic guard (Clancey Brown) who beats up
defenseless nice guys. This movie is so manipulative it's laughable.....but entertaining,
especially if you're another Bible basher are another naive Lib who
thinks that jails are filled with intelligent, sweet-natured guys like
Freeman, Robbins, et al. In the world of film-making, criminals are the
real "victims "of our horrible society.

******
7 September 2015
1
This movie is the most overrated movie of all time. The beginning of
the movie is disgusting. Then it passes slowly , slowly , slowly ! ..
There are no events !!! only a bunch of people in prison talking to
each other.. that's it !! The movie was boring and long.. I mean very
boring .. If it was not rated as 9.3 I would just stop watching the
movie. But because of the high rating and all the fuss about it I just
continued watching it. The ending was absolutely hilarious ! Common !!!
a very funny twist that was predictable. But the way they presented
that twist to us was hilarious ! Believe me , don't watch this movie,
it is literally overrated. If there was zero rating, then this movie
deserves it !

******
3 April 2004
7
Quite frankly, this is a movie of clichés. You want examples, I got
examples! "Some birds are not meant to be caged, their feathers are too
bright" or "Get busy living, or get busy dying" or "Terrible thing, to
live in fear" or "It was like some beautiful bird flapped into our drab
little cage and made those walls dissolve away" or "need it so you
don't forget. Forget that there are places in the world that aren't
made out of stone" or "Hope is a good thing, and good things can never
die" - if you say so, sensei!Problem is Stephen King never leaves anything to the imagination. He
tells us everything - if Tim Robbins organises some special event for
the inmates, like playing music over the loudspeaker, Morgan Freeman's
voice will come right out and suggest a few reasons why this episode is
so wonderful/significant, the nature of which are very similar through
each episode of the movie. And Darabont obviously likes the idea of
assuming the audience are very thick, and will not see or experience
anything unless you dictate to them what to experience, and has made
his movie by it.Also, i'm starting to be wary of Thomas Newman as a composer doing
exactly what Darabont has done as a director: employ a formula that has
worked in the past. His score for Shawshank is calculated on the same
formula of highs, lows, and general atmosphere as in his score for Road
to Perdition, American Beauty, Meet Joe Black, Horse Whisperer, Scent
of a Woman, and The Green Mile, not surprisingly. If you think about
all these movies, they all have a similar feel, they all go for a
similar nostalgia, haunting sadness - which admittedly i find very
appealing, but i'm starting to worry at how similar they all are.I think encouraging this movie too much is like rewarding someone for
employing a formula very successfully - instead of taking risks and
doing something edgy that still turns out to be enjoyable and
brilliant. Most people do not evaluate movies based on their IMDb
ranking, but i certainly would be surprised if any major lists ranked
this in their top ten.That said, this is still a good movie, with good performances, a good
unity, despite its necessarily episodic nature, and it looks great. Its
only for movies people insist on putting on best-ever lists that i
require a certain originality, the feeling that what this movie gives
you you could not get anywhere else (I believe this is why movies like
Citizen Kane, Vertigo, 2001, Raging Bull, Third Man, Grand Illusion,
Persona and, for me, Exterminating Angel, are constantly mentioned on
such lists, and deservedly). What this movie gave me, I could get from
reading any other Stephen King story, or seeing any other movie
adaptation of a King story.

******
31 July 2013
1
i cannot believe someone would call this movie great i would give it a
3 but the fact it is the highest rating movie ever on this site makes
me go crazy how pathetic can this be this is the most overrated movie
ever created made with a low budget it seems all that happens is a guy
that went to prison gets raped several times escapes and meets his
friend from prison back when he was out ending 99% of the movie was
made in prison where all that happened was he gets raped and washes
some clothes seriously how can you even compare this near to godfather
dark knight etc? ...and the bad director just killed himself at the end
his wife gets killed he isn't even sad about it 20 years in prison has
some money not that much and is happy how nice

******
11 June 2013
1
Based on Stephen King's novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption,
Frank Darabont's "The Shawshank Redemption" tells the story of Andy
Dusfresne (Tim Robbins), a gentle banker wrongly convicted for the
double murders of his wife and her lover. The story goes on to send a
powerful message of friendship and hope through even the darkest times
imaginable."Andy Dusfresne  who crawled through a river of s*t, and came out
clean on the other side", remarks Red, narrator and man-who-knows-how-
to-get-things, effortlessly played by the iconic father of narration
Morgan Freeman. When we meet Red, he's 20 years into a life sentence
with a jaded view of the world and initially thinks little of
Dusfresne. However as the months turn into years we watch them form a
beautiful friendship and observe two people who truly care for each
other, a rarity in many modern movies and arguably life today.This is testament to the wonderful acting from Robbins and Freeman, and
indeed across the board. The supporting cast is excellent, from the
corrupt Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) and his viciously sadistic Captain
Hadley (Clancy Brown), to the kind, institutionalized librarian Brooks
(James Whitmore), every character in Shawshank is well rounded and
brilliantly acted. And as if all that wasn't enough, the soundtrack,
composed by Thomas Newman, is hauntingly beautiful and perfectly
complements the film throughout its 2.5 hours.The Shawshank Redemption is an emotional roller-coaster in that it
truly offers everything, from devastating and disturbing lows to
heart-warming highs, and even elements of comedy where appropriate.
This movie has such depth and whilst not being preachy in any way, it
has many lessons to offer through Andy's character. Andy, for me,
embodies the perfect human, caught up in a hurricane of bad luck; he
only once complains about his fate, the rest of the time he seems to
find goodness in most situations and spends his sentence improving the
lives of those around him.This is epitomized by Red's story who, despite our protagonist being
Andy, is our eyes and ears, our story teller and ultimately the one
redeemed. Red, the self-proclaimed "only guilty man in Shawshank" is
all but institutionalized after 30 years in those walls, but it's Andy
who gradually shows him the power of hope, of integrity and of not
forgetting who you are. He enables him to free himself after being
freed from Shawshank.It comes down to a simple choice really. Get busy living, or get busy
dying.

******
11 June 2013
1
i pretty much hated this movie. its a prison movie, so plot is
basically Tim robins gets framed than raped and eventually escapes.
Morgan freeman is locked up and i don't know he just acts like a kid in
this. i understand he's suppose to be locked up since he was a teen but
really he's giving the same performance here as his role as god in
Bruce almighty. even though he's miscast he honestly carries the movie,
mainly because Tim robins does nothing in this movie. some other
subplots include Tim teaching some idiot to read or something, some old
guy hangs himself, they deck a roof,freeman sneaks in a hammer and
robins makes chess pieces, i'll stop the the point i'm making is this
movie is excruciatingly boring. number one on IMDb, are you kidding me?
even from a technical standpoint this movie blows. everything is just
dull and unimpressive, hell it looks more like a TV movie than a film.
i'd describe the tone of this as Disney's take on jail movies. it's to
concerned with being safe and classy to accurately represent prison
life. everyone's favorite part of this is the ending, and that sucked
too. Tim robins apparently escapes prison with a rock hammer, after
digging through his cell wall for like twenty years. his hiding place
is a poster? really? to make matters more hilarious he has crawls
through a tunnel of poop and emerges from a poop lake in a failed
attempt to move the audience. Morgan freeman gets paroled by basically
insulting the judges, than he goes to a rock in some random place that
Tim told him to visit, and than goes to Mexico and finds Tim on a boat.
reunited and roll credits, oh yeah Morgan freeman also married his
step- granddaughter. that's the dumbest ending ever written. there's so
much better stuff you could be watching instead of shawshank like porn
or riki-oh.

******
13 May 2012
1
Why this film is so highly rated is beyond me. First of all, where is
the redemption? The characters do nothing that can be construed as
redeeming (except for the one played by Gil Bellows). They simply
survive. Someone who also doesn't like the film compares it to a fairy tale
because it's unrealistic. This is an insult to fairy tales. Fairy tales
are beautiful and deep, with complex motives transmitted throughout the
centuries, the traditional good-bad dichotomy and a clear moral
conclusion. The Shawshank Redemption is dull, with some basic and
carefully explained symbolism (because apparently we're too stupid to
get it otherwise) and, contrary to traditional notions of morality, the
hero's sidekicks are some nice criminals. Of course, prison staff are
cast as the bad guys and their boss is portrayed as a hypocrite
speaking of the Bible yet acting in an un-Christian manner. Can you say
anti-Christian bigotry?

******
11 September 2010
1
Shawshank is by far the most grossly overrated films of all time. To
say that this is better than Lawrence of Arabia, better than Alien,
Better then Saving Private Ryan, is just ridiculous. This movie is
weak, as are all the characters in it. I'll never forgot the scene
where the old man hangs himself after leaving prison and the piano
symphony kicks in. Why should I feel sorry for him? Try living in
Africa buddy and tell me how hard your life is. This movie is for weak
people who love to shed a tear for prisoners and overall just weak
people. Now I love the director of this and Stephen King, but im sorry,
this isn't a masterpiece, it's forcing the audience into the characters
emotional problems that few can relate. Go see the Green Mile instead.Rating = D-- VideoGameHollywood.com

******
2 April 2009
1
Even do I think this film is highly enjoyable I will rate it with only
one star. This is due to the fact that I think its position at the IMDb
top 250 is really unfair. There are many movies that surpass this one
in many aspects and they should be above this title. I don't exactly
know how the system works since the only votes that count are the ones
from regular voters (when do you become one?) but I will try to lower
its position rating this film with only one star even do I think it
deserves 6 or 7.The performances are truly above average but I think that the
characters are not near as memorable. On the other hand I liked the
photography a lot and the story is really good but I think the movie
should have ended about 10 minutes before (Like No Country for Old
Men).I wrote this comment only to encourage people to do the same thing. I
am glad to see comments like mine which makes me thing that not
everybody consider this title as the best movie ever (because it is
not). I know it is a matter of subjectivity but when too many people
give this film 10 stars we are denying that there are better films out
there.

******
28 December 2002
1

The movie is about an accountant who is accused of murdering his wife and
her lover and as a result is sentenced for a life in prison. The movie is
filled with deep meanings but unfortunately it is very boring and
directed
in a very lame way. Plus the musical score is preety bad and does not
spark
any emotions from you. In this type of movie an emotional and memorable
musical score is very important but somehow the filmmakers did not seem
to
care. 

******
22 February 2010
1
let's value it entertainment: the script is more than cliché, typical prison
break/escape movie. Morgan Freeman is OK, Tim Robins is so awful, in
every scene he looks like he is crying.. production value is so so..
rating 3/10 social message: the message of the movie is: life is good, society is
fair enough,when it is unfair,don't worry, look at the down syndrome
looking guy Andy,with a probably below average intelligence, easily
escaped the prison, when you get caught, do the same..the world is so
wonderful and hopeful..and American jails have better life than many
other poor countries free life.....try a little,you can do
anything..the message is complete wrong. rating -5/10 objectionable things: generally, nothing serious objectionable to me,
but it's a bit black supremacist. it promotes typical black saint(magic
Negro) image.. tells you blacks are morally superior than other
people.. it violates my principal that people are equal.. rating 5/10 so overall rating 1/10

******
19 July 2009
1
When I searched amongst the endless lists of reviews given about this
movie, I had not found one that gave it less than 7 stars. In order to
truly see a movie for what it is, one must look past all that makes it
great into its minor flaws and weaknesses. If you (the reader) were
drawn to this review because of the low rating, well I am sorry but I
have mislead you. However, I have also led you to something greater and
different from the rest of the reviews for this film.To get to the point, Shawshank Redemption is magnificently made and
deserves incredible amounts of praise for its entertainment value and
perspective on life in prison. However, the themes of the film are
rather shallow. The entire theme can be summarized in a short sentence:
Friendship and hope can get you through almost anything. Although it is
a great message, it is simply a nugget of what could have been much
greater.Now I know that I have only given the film 1 star here, but that was
only to draw attention so that you may finally see that this film,
although superb, is not perfect by any means as is suggested by the
vast quantity of perfect reviews. In all honesty I would give it nine
stars out of ten and would encourage everybody to see it.Great, not perfect, but after all, where can true perfection honestly
be found?

******
2 December 2005
1
After seeing the rating it got on here on IMDb.com and hearing from
different people who had seen it I was very exited when I saw it was
being shown on television. It began quite well and some parts were
actually good but in after half the movie it got worse and worse...
Freemans role was one of the most irritating marlabo man stereotypical
pseudo intellectual characters I've ever had the displeasure of seeing
on my television. Even "the green mile" was a better movie. 3/10 for
acceptable actor performances. Well, I really hope "one flew over the
cuckoo's nest" will be more interesting... else I lost all hope for
prison films.

******
21 March 2009
1
Really now. I can't say that this is the worst movie of all time, but
it certainly isn't the greatest. The mere fact that TBS plays this
movie sixteen times per week, thereby forcing you to watch it over and
over again, does not mean that it is good. I therefore, call for a
"surge" of negative reviews to be leveled against this mediocre film so
that with the help of Mark Twain and his angels we will be able to oust
it from its ill-deserved spot as IMDb #1 movie of all time. Honestly,
my fellow Americans, this film is the kind of thing that makes us look
bad.Merry Christmas, and to all a good night.

******
31 May 2004
1

Okay so many people may be wondering why I hate such a "beautiful work of
literature" or "The best story ever told on screen". Well there are too many
reasons to list in my maximum of 1,000 words. So instead I will give a few
obvious reasons on why I truly hate this movie.
Being a teenager I enjoy movies like "Mystic River" and "Donnie Darko". You
know psychological thrillers. Well this is nothing of the sort. "The
Shawshank Redemption" is what I classify as a Sleeping movie. The name says
it all. You sleep while you watch it. It took me about a month to get
through the whole entire movie. That is very sad considering the praise this
movie received.
I pray no one else ever has to go through the torture of watching this
horrid movie.

******
10 September 2001
1

This film is story driven rather than character driven which means it'll
always be liked by people but will never be one of the all-time greats. I
have no problem with the plot design - it's well assembled and effectively
climaxed. Overall, a well thought out entertaining film. The dialogue and
characterisation devices however were cheesy and untrue to the world of
the
story.1)The new inmates line up for a speech from the warden. One inmate growls:
"When do we eat?". Unrealistic and unnecessary. He might well have said:
"Please hit me several times so the audience can see how brutal this
prison
is." The brutality of the prison is conveyed when crying fat boy gets
kicked
to death, so this addition is pointless.2)The story had already established freemans and robbins friendship, when
freeman leans over to robbins and says: "We're kinda becomin friends
aren't
we?" Can you ever imagine any grown adult actually saying that to
another?3)Worst scene of the film: the music scene. The film uses music to
symbolise
the theme of hope (robbins mind music in the hole, freemans harmonica).
This
is first introduced when robbins locks himself in the office and blares
loud
music all over the prison. Yeah OK, willful main character. But when the
warden and guards shout for him to turn it off, what does he do? He sits
back with feet up and smug grin plastered on his face. The guards bang
again
and again. What does he do? He leans over to the gramaphone and turns the
volume up. I mean, come on, do me a favour. His punishment is a month in
the
hole, and for a simple reason. If the scriptwriter had shown the guards
breaking in and kicking him almost to death (which is what really would
have
happened), then the audience is left thinking: "What a fool". The scene
was
silly and should've been rethought.Finally, can someone please tell me how he got that poster of Racquel
Welch
back on the wall after he climbed frontways into that tunnel?I give it an 8 out of 10.

******
19 January 2013
1
This film deserves something like a 7 or an 8, but I have been forced
to score it drastically in some attempt to right the terrible injustice
that has been done.WHO is voting this film so highly? It is a nice film. A NICE film. IT
IS NOT THE BEST FILM OF ALL TIME!!!!!!!!!!! I can only assume it has
been voted as such because people liked the "shocking" ending and the
happiness brought to them by Morgan Freeman's voice caressing their
ears.There is also a seriously unpleasant rape scene in there, none of the
characters do very much, and there is a particularly depressing suicide
scene. How any of this makes for 9.3/10, I have no idea. Can people
stop giving films ridiculous ratings, so that people like me have to
counterbalance those (undeserved) ratings with mean ones? Please? Just
say no.

******
1 July 2011
1
I don't understand how this movie managed to get to Number one on this
site. While it's a good movie with talented actors, it's just not as
entertaining and solid as other movies that i believe deserve the top
ranking. I enjoyed watching it, and it really doesn't deserve the 1/10 rating
I've given it (thats only to bring it lower on the top 250) it just
isn't as good as other movies I have seen and loved such as
'Trainspotting', 'Pulp Fiction' and 'Donnie Darko' for example. These movies are solid performances with a strong theme in one
direction, while I feel that The Shawshank Redemption flounders around
with it's, slightly lame, hope and friendship theme, thats just not as
entertaining as others.

******
28 April 2014
1
At the time of this review, 'The Shawshank Redemption' is the number
one movie on IMDb. Why? If anything, it is probably the most clichéd
film I have ever seen with my own two eyes, and yet it is rated as the
top film of all time? It blows my mind every time I visit this website.This 'film' was adapted from a novel by the renowned author Steven
King. I have not read the book, as I have already been spoiled by the
movie, but apparently the writing is quite exquisite. However, Frank
Darabont must have missed the entire point of Steven's works, which is
to have engaging characters that you are able to sympathize with.The characters are so bland, I might as well be staring at glue dry.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman's bromance literally develops right out
of the blue after they have one conversation. Pacing? What's that?
Later, you meet an old fart named Brooks, who might as well have his
name changed to "I'm going to die later so feel sad-larry", and the
most he contributes to the film is increasing the runtime with his
sub-plot about being outside after being locked in for so long. One
cannot forget the oh-so-memorable (sarcasm) warden who channels the
spirits of every Disney villain without the accompanying song. You can
find more interesting characters in a Tyler Perry movie.The worst part of the movie is definitely the passage of time. The
story takes place over twenty years or so and yet the only one to
actually age is the warden. Tim and Morgan stay in some special cells
where they magically do not get older and therefore nobody notices on
IMDb. While a competent director would have noticed this as soon as
they glanced at the script, Darabont was off in the broom closet
shagging the catering chick or something.If you enjoy modern shooters then you are in for a treat. Most of this
movie is full of grays, browns, mixes between, and it even has a sewer
section just for the hell of it. Just when you thought the movie might
get interesting when out of the prison, prepare to be disappointed.
Honestly, the best shot of the movie is when Tim is crawling through
sh*t, as it reflects on my feelings towards the film.Music can make - or break - a movie. Here, the 'original' score only
seems to try and make you cry at the most inappropriate times. The
music is too overplayed in films like this, where it takes away from
the already terrible experience.This movie is as lame as they come. If you like this, fine. As the
phrase says, "ignorance is bliss".

******
27 September 2005
1
There is absolutely nothing redeeming about this maudlin Hollywood
package. The storyline is predictable; the characters and performances
are one-dimensional; the dialogue is absolutely embarrassing ("Prison
is not a fairy tale." Ya think?!) If it would have been about women
instead of men, it would have been dismissed as the schmaltzfest that
it is. It isn't even courageous enough to admit that it is a gay love
story. Tim Robbins should be ashamed to have taken part, for his
performance was the most wooden I'd seen since Daryl Hannah in (insert
any 80s movie she appeared in here). Morgan Freeman was even more
dreadful and has been giving the same dreadful performance ever since.
I don't expect much depth from Stephen King-inspired movies, but
"Children of the Corn" was insightful in comparison to this dribble.

******
28 May 2003
1
   ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***
This is quite possibly the worst movie I have ever seen! I mean how many
times have we seen a movie about some guy, in this case Andy Defresne
played
by Tim Robbins, being sent to prison because he murdered his wife and then
many years later he escapes using a spoon or something to escape from the
prison. The acting isn't really great, the story is flat like a pancake,
and
Frank Darabont's direction really shows that this was a first-time effort.
The movie is absolutely WAY too predictable, the title The Shawshank
Redemption already gives away the ending of the movie, which I felt way
too
cheesy and fake to believe. In conclusion, I don't see how this movie even
got the Best Picture nomination back in '94, I guess the Academy felt
sorry
for this film. You should either get busy livin' watching true classics
that
are below this film on the Top 250, or get busy dyin' watching this
garbage.0/10

******
19 January 2006
1
"The Shawshank Redemption" or "Shawshank" as I'm sure it's said to
death in the film is an elongated short story that just 'lingers' from
one hour to the next. There's no real 'charm' to the film except of
course 'dry wit' from Red as if it's the gospel according to Red. He
basically plugs Andy the entire movie as if he's his agent. "Now Andy
this" and "Andy that". Not to mention a walking brochure for
penitentiaries "Shawshank this" and "Shawhank that" his gospel just
never lets up.Now Tim Robbins was perfectly cast for about 5 minutes playing 'the
babe in the woods' who "looks like a stiff breeze would blow him over"
a "tall drink of water with a silver spoon up his ass". But once
nothing seems to break him, its definitely a part for Mel Gibson. Tim
Robbins didn't have the 'acting chops' to bring the 'required depth' to
this character. Fortunate for Robbins in post production Morgan Freeman
saved his ass with extensive voice overs. Most people think this was
premeditated but 'the truth' is Robbins gave such a wooden performance
it was necessary.Most people think this isn't your average prison drama ether because
its not about violence and melodrama. But 'the truth' is this film is
no better than your TV movie of the week that features a 'prison
escape'. The whole 'poster thing' couldn't be more 'implausible' if an
elephant hang from a cliff by a daisy. Don't let me get started on how
he just happened to have the cell on the end ether! The music was
'elevator music' at best. The only time I even took notice was when
they actually featured it in the plot And even then if I'd heard it id
have personally punctured my eardrums. Why the 'sound' was nominated
for an academy award is beyond me. If it weren't for packaging and
distribution this film would be a made for TV movie. Which it was if
you consider its box office taking against home rental.The entire cast reeked 'cartoon'. You have your 'evil' warden with his
'religion'. You have your 'mean' guards you 'grow to love'. Not to
mention 'the kid', 'the old guy', 'the black guy' and 'the guys'. The
prison was so stereotypical it even had 'fags'. Some other failings of
this 'pathetic' movie. The dialogue was 'harebrained'. If it was
supposed to fascinate, well, it 'failed'. The manner in which the mini
stories unfolded was 'not stimulating'. His ability to get beers and do
taxes in particular 'sucked'.In short this film 'sucked'. Worst film 'since', well since ever!

******
20 April 2003
1

The problem with this movie is that it is to ordinary. It seems like the
movie is just a cheap feelgood flick that has an ending that is easily
predicted. I didn't care much for the characters and the narration was
pretty annoying. I've read the book and it's a good adaptation. See it if
your a Stephen King fan or like Dramas.

******
30 September 2007
1
I can't think of any movie more monstrously overrated than The
Shawshank Redemption. Giving it only one star may seem harsh but
considering all the undeserved praise heaped on this mediocre and dull
movie I think it's fair. I watched it on TV and it is good enough for
some entertainment for a few hours if you're too tired to do anything
else but that's about it. It is predictable and unimaginative: innocent
guy (well we never learn if he is if I remember correctly but as he is
such a nice fellow we're supposed to think so), sexually assaulted,
escapes and there you have it and that's all there is to it. Of course
Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are good actors but I can't think of
anything more nice to say about this movie.

******
16 June 1999
1

It's not a bad film.  It's just derivative and melodramatic.  It borrows
from "Cool Hand Luke," a superior film.  It relishes its significance too
much.  It's a bit smug.  Morgan Freeman's voiceover is a clumsy narrative
device.  I don't know -- I just know for sure it's not one of "the best
films of all time."  Not even close.

******
27 April 2002
1

#2 favorite movie in the database? Mein Gott!! Surely you
jest.Big-budget marquee name rip-off of the ever popular naif-in-prison B-film
standard. Except the B movies don't pretend they aren't going for the
shock/schlock appeal.Utter rubbish.

******
23 March 1999
1

After reading all the rave reviews for this movie, it turned out to be a
real disappointment.  Can anyone really believe that the prisoners are
honourable men while the guards and warden are all "crooks"??  Haven't we
overdone the hypocritical "Bible thumper"?? -- let's find a more
enlightened
characterization.  James Bond, himself, could not have followed the main
character's escape plan.  The ending soliloquy and denouement were
inferior
plagiarisms from "Cool Hand Luke".  Enough!!!  Unfortunately, fine
performances by both Robbins and Freeman were wasted in this "fantasy"
story.

******
1 June 2003
1

The Shawshank Redemption is a movie about a hotshot banker named Andy
Dufresne(Tim Robbins) who is convicted of murdering his wife and is
imprisoned in Shawshank Prison. He remains hopeful and makes friends
especially with a blackmarketeer named "Red"( Morgan Freeman). I really
don't
see how this movie could possibly be the #2 film of all time, the movie
is
nothing groundbreakingly amazing, it is pretty poorly directed, the plot
is
thinner than air,there are no risks taken,and there is no thought
provoked
through watching the film that it only needs to one viewing to get the
whole
movie, in fact you wouldn't even need to watch the film to even
understand
how the movie is going end. The title already gives away the whole "big"
finale of the movie. I don't see how anyone could possibly compare THIS
to
actually great movies like EVERYTHING that is below is on the Top 25. And
the simple thought of this winning Best Picture back in '94,
HAHAHAHAHAHAHA!, it would have given me somethingh to laugh at for the
rest
of my life, I still can't possibly see how the Academy could have even
nominated this as the Best Picture of 1994. Anyway the only thing that
saves the film of Morgan Freeman and it is only thing that even got me to
see this film in the first place but it still can't stop me from giving
this
a poor grade.2/10  

******
14 February 2003
1

People wonder why I hate this movie so much, and I have to say that its
just
purely unoriginal.  I mean c'mon... how many times have you heard the
story
of a guy who's wrongfully accused of a crime and somehow escapes prison
using a stupid spoon? If there's one thing I look for in a movie, then
it's
got to be originality.  I'll let it go if its based on a novel, or a
musical, but c'mon... a plot this unoriginal doesn't deserve any credit!


******
8 November 2001
1

I'm sorry
I don't mean to offend people who like this film but what on earth is all
the fuss about over this film it is nothing compared to The Godfather and
yet people vote it as second to the number 1!?
The Shawshank Redemption has a relatively simple plot ,dull camera work
the
script is full of soppy language (thanks to the overrated Steven King)that
just isn't particularly clever in any way.The atmosphere of 'prison' is
totally unrealistic all the characters are wimps.The only good element is
Morgan Freeman because he's a good actor.There aren't any clever
twists-for
instance the 'mystery' of what is in the box at the end of the film is
really unoriginal. Please feel free to argue with me over this but come on
people step back and look at the film what is it made up of? Then look at
The Godfather look at what that is made up of - Brill cast, excellent
plot,
damn good script, good directing and camera work everything is perfect
then
look back at the Shawshank redemption its just at a completely different
level. Its quite ridiculous really.

******
29 December 1999
1

All the drama of a falling rock.  If SK lived in the Victorian Age this
would be a morality play--and both would be dead and forgotten by
now--just
the idea of it makes me want to live another 100 years or
so.

******
17 August 1999
1

For the life of me, I can't understand all the gushing about this
cornball,
sentimental and PHONY movie.  There are certainly some strong
performances,
but they're outweighed by some of the two-dimensional portrayals, weak
writing (that opera sequence -- oh, please) and most of all a completely
garbage ending (I won't give it away) that stomps on what little
credibility
the movie has.I guess you really can't go broke under-estimating people's
intelligence.

******
22 November 2006
1
i had to comment, i really did, all those eulogies on what is in
reality a hackneyed complacent pretentious film. Nothing that this film
says challenges any principle or thought- its purpose is to confirm
every conservative, sentimental, instinct in us all. And yet it has a
sense of its own putative profundities, and bulldozes these throughout
the film. Really what the film is saying is neither profound nor
original, and is not to my mind worth saying in the first place at
least not at such length- ie life is hard, people suffer, but through
struggle the human spirit will win through, learn to make friends and
get their deserved reward - mmm. Nothing makes any of the characters
real, and the actors are not helped by this terrible overloaded
narration which applies a great weight on the story which cannot breath
as every moment is made to seem sooo significant. It is not just that
there is no lightness of touch in the direction, or that there is no
humour, it is that there is a sense that what is being described is
more important than humour, or than the real nature of friendship.
Suffice to say i loathe this film and recommend people watch it only as
a lesson in what is bad about big budget Hollywood movies.

******
29 January 2004
1

I don't understand why this movie is so popular.  Yes, it was an
interesting
movie, and it was a good movie, but it was not spectacular enough to
receive
all the praise which it has.  The acting was good, and the plot original,
but it was still a rather ordinary movie.  Apparently, I'm the only one
with
this opinion...

******
10 July 2003
1

Three words: "Cool Hand Luke."  Same film, done better, done earlier.  For
that matter, is this film any better than other Steven King "novelettes"
such as "Stand By Me"? All in all, it probably ranks a 6 or a 7, but since
people on this site have lost their minds as regards this film, I give it
a
1 in one man's attempt at sanity.

******
8 August 2006
1
Over-long, boring, tedious, over-acted and very very very very very
OVER-RATED. Hell knows what goes through the minds of people to vote
this the 2nd best film EVER!! I first saw the cut down version lasting
1 hour 25 minutes, and it was still too long.I wouldn't mind but it's so drawn-out, fanciful and pathetic. The
things that happen in that prison would never happen, just because some
nerdy bank manager has "hope..." Give me a break! Which soap opera did
that sad line come from! No wonder it was initially ignored, and it
should be continued to be ignored. Robbins, who is accused and wrongly
convicted for the murders of his wife and her lover, never ages. At one
point he HAS TO "remind" us he's been in jail for 12 years, because it
only looks like a week.Yet did you see the way he really changed in 12 years from 1994 to
2006. He looks a much older man. And of course he does, he's 12 years
older!! In the Shamshank Dedeption he never aged one day in 12 years,
and his hair is even cut the same style.Even when we then go forward something like 20 years, he still looks
the same, never aged at all, apart from a few bluey grey hairs at the
sides. And after he escapes (after 20 years of tunnelling through thick
concrete with a a small screwdriver), he meets up with his old buddy
Freeman, who got out of jail legally. And get this, BOTH look younger
than when they first went in.By my reckoning Tim Robbins should now be about 70, and Morgan Freeman
in his early 80s, yet both after serving their time still look barely
40.And what a load of talkative rubbish. The most boring over-hyped-up
film in history. Complete twaddle. God knows how on earth I watched all
of it, but I did if for a bet, 'cause I cannot stand it. Wasn't worth a
UK tenner anyway!! My vote, 2 out of 10 for a mediocre drama.Get a life, if this is the "best" film you've even seen. Better still,
get a cinema ticket!!!! Or rent a DVD. And more than one!!

******
17 July 2002
1

awful. a dreadful disgrace. the film is the most cliched in cinematic
history and is worthy of no respect. even worse is how it is so flawless
yet
it still is of no quality. i do not know how this film can be revered over
others such as psycho, apocalypse now, raging bull, easy rider, the
godfather, the killing fields, some like it hot and casablanca amongst
others. shockingly horrendous

******
10 May 1999
1

Shawshank is nothing more
than a fairy tale.  It tells us as much about what prison is really like
as
Pretty Woman tells us about what prostitution is really like.  People like
fairy tales, so both these movies were very popular.  

******
2 October 2006
1
This drama has been widely vaunted as one of the best films ever made-
personally I just can't see the appeal. Sure it contains very good
performances by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman- but there have been
other, much better screen performances by other actors. There is very
little suspense or originality about the plot and nothing that hasn't
been seen or done on screen a hundred times before. So why the
popularity? It's a formulaic feel-good movie who's happy ending is
never in doubt. Knowing that Stephen King wrote the novel on which the
film was based would probably give that away anyway. As with any
adaptation from book to film there are several differences between the
two, though the film does, on this occasion, improve on the book.There have been better adaptations of King novels (The Shining) and
better performances by better actors, yet for some reason this film
continues to be rated as better than it actually is.

******
21 June 2003
1

The notion that this movie belongs in the top 100 of anybody's list is
simply retarded.  This B-movie with an A-movie list is standard, run of the
mill, TV-movie-of-the-week fare.  How did it get this high?  What's wrong
with the vast number of IMDB users that they would vote so highly in favor
of such a piece of trite?  My theory: Tim Robbins is sending each of you a
check.  That's the only explanation.  This movie offers nothing special:
nothing different, nothing unique.  No great performances (a phoned-in
Morgan Freeman performance akin to his "Deep Impact" presidential
performance), no graphic portrayals or stark realism of life behind
bars--nothing. This movie achieves what few in history have done: it both
sucks AND blows.

******
22 March 2004
1

The only thing that amazes me about this movie is that it is not only
within
500 top movies in IMDB but actually #2 and soon perhaps #1...I only saw Shawshank Redemption once, and have not been able to force
myself
to watch it in full length ever since. It was ok to see it once even
though
I was almost bored then, but not quite. I found it very average in every
respect, and quite predictable. I guess that this is one of those movies
that is so average that it does not bother anybody by invoking powerful
emotions, thoughts or memories, and does not have any obviously bad
technical quality. Just sooo average. Hence the high score?


******
11 February 2004
1

Sorry folks but this movie is a C movie and not an A. I can't believe that
people like this movie so much. Yes I am biased, I really don't like Tim
Robbins but he has made a decent movie or two but this ain't one of them.
This is your basic prison movie. What can I say- it has the host of usual
characters.  The storyline is basic, the outcome I won't say but it is
just
stupid to say that this is a great movie. I didn't think it was realistic
at
all and anybody who falls for this crap is either delusional or needs some
brains to differentiate between an Edsel and a Lamborghini. I wouldn't
watch
this movie again unless I was paid to do so. One viewing is enough for
this
predictable laugher.

******
15 February 2001
1

 Obviously I missed the point of this movie.  After years of people telling
me how fantastic it was and noting how high it regularly comes in opinion
polls, I finally watched it recently.Somehow I seem to have come to completely the opposite conclusion to almost
everyone else.  Maybe my expectations were too high but I was very, very
disappointed.  The plot was predictable and dull, the directing pretty
droll.  Not much else I can say about it, other than to ask people if I have
missed something key that would alter my perception of this film?Who am I to go against the vast popularity of this picture?  I must be the
exception that proves the rule.
This (apparently) is a "must see" movie.

******
1 September 2003
1

Shawshank Redemption is overrated.
It's a decent, above average film, but by no means a great
film.The inmates are pretty much likeable, while the warden and his pet guard are
monsters. Also as Freeman's character says: "You know that everybody in
here's innocent?" As the story develops you feel like he is right, the only
criminals are the ones guarding the prisoners.This is a sentimental piece made to stir the emotions, but not to stir them
too much. Just enough to make the viewer feel there is injustice in the
world but that in the end everything ends well and justice surely comes to
he who waits 20 years or so for it.The Shawshank Redemption is, as I said, a decent film, possibly among the
top five films of 1994.
IMO the best films of 1994 are Pulp Fiction and Léon.

******
18 July 2005
1
The basic story for this dreadful movie is Andy Dufresne is a young and
successful banker whose life changes drastically when he is convicted
and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his wife and her
lover. Set in the 1940's, the film shows how Andy, with the help of his
friend Red, the prison entrepreneur, turns out to be a most
unconventional prisoner i think am missing something with this movie,
having now seen it twice. Its 1 of the most predictable boring movies i
have ever seen. The bit were all the prisoners stop and listen to the
opera music is just laughable. This just would not happen with hardened
prisoners. This is also one of the poorest performances i have seen
from Morgan freeman, why he took this role on i will never know. Go
watch the Green Mile, its much finer work from the duo of Stephen King
and Frank Darabont

******
4 August 2005
1
It's an "emotional manipulation for dummies" type of film, with boring
direction and cardboard characters. Nice performances by the actors though, some great moments, but nothing
outside the "Hallmark meets Stephen King meets Prison" feel of the
entire movie.I saw it one and a half times, and would see it again only if I got
paid for the trouble.Similarly, I hated 'The Green Mile", only later did I find out it's the
work of Darabont.My recommendation: Skip this, and go see OZ again.

******
28 December 2000
1

This is certainly a good movie, with universal themes of freedom and
adversity etc etc, but... I've seen plenty of movies which were more
artfully made than this one. There is nothing revolutionary in the
directing. The novella by Stephen King is practically tailor-made for a
movie adaption, and it seems any capable director could have made a good
movie from it. I think the only reason this movie is #2 on this list is
the
sheer amount of people who have seen it and voted. The other truly great
movies near the top of the list don't pack the same mass audience appeal
that Shawshank Redemption does, nor are they shown on TNT 6-10 times a
year.
Movies like 2001, The Seven Samurai, or Lawrence of Arabia, for example,
would bore many of the people who love Shawshank Redemption, and I
personally consider those three I named and many others to be far better
creations than the Shawshank Redemption. Perhaps we should take a poll of
TNT viewers on the best movie of all time - I'd bet Shawshank Redemption
would place first, with The Blues Brothers coming in a close
second.

******
19 November 2000
1

Another one of those overlong morally right-on movies that never rises
above
average - saved only by the acting.Its bleeding-heart politics 'dignity of individual maintained in adverse
conditions' is played-out well enough but actually lacks any real dramatic
tension.Dufrane is a two-dimensional character who seems to go through the drama
by
numbers - there's never any doubt that he will triumph in the end, it's
only
a matter of how.Tim Robbins has done many more interesting films than this one - try The
Player or Bob Roberts if you're looking for drama/moral ambivalence and
how
they interact.Basically, there are a lot better prison films than this one - Jailhouse
Rock for starters.Like most Stephen King stories - quite prosaic. There was a story in here
somewhere but it got over-inflated and somewhat lost along the way.One to watch on a rainy day when there's nothing better to do.


******
19 July 2008
1
Saying this is the #2 movie of all-time is like saying McDonald's makes
the best hamburgers. They're both palatable, predictable, inoffensive
products that are easy to digest. Both have happy endings-- that is, if
you find the stunning speed with which a McDonald's hamburger flushes
out your digestive tract to be a "happy" occasion.All you need to know is that Shawshank has the exact same ending as
"Trading Places." So why not make "Trading Places" the greatest comedy
of all-time?? What the hell, why not make it #3 on IMDb? It too is
competent and utterly middle-of-the road in terms of quality and
originality within its genre.Instead of Dan Ackroyd and Eddie Murphy laughing it up on a Caribbean
beach after besting the forces of evil, we get Morgan Freeman and Tim
Robbins. It's the exact same ending! Shawshank was OK when I saw it
when it came out. But count me among the backlash group that would
rather see it with the 6-7 rating that it deserves. Thusly, I hereby
cast my symbolic 1-star vote.

******
10 June 2007
1
just read the title. Tough I think it's a pretty decent movie (but not
as good as the Stephen King's novel) i just can't understand why it
should deserve to be ahead of everyone else in the top 250 (with the
exception of the godfather). To be honest i don't even really think it
should be in the top 250. Yeah, I know you Americans love the
happy-ending Vaseline-flavored subtly homosexual jail movies, but all
this hype it's too much anyway. Come on, this can't be better than
Welles, Kubrick, Kurosawa or Scorsese (or not even Carpenter and Fulci
in my humble opinion) So I give it a 1/10. This is not a critical
valuation of the movie. This is a political statement.

******
31 July 2005
1
I would humbly suggest that before praising or damning the "Shawshank
Redemption", that one take a considered look at the New York Times
"Best 1000 Films Ever Made" list. Unfortunately, the guidelines of this
site preclude me,oh gentle reader, from giving you the URL. One should
be able to Google it, so all is not lost.The NYT was good enough to excerpt the list from Peter Nichols' The
"New York Times Guide to the 1,000 Best Films Ever Made".What ? The "Shawshank Redemption" is not on this list, you say ?Perhaps, humble viewer, you haven't seen enough films of the first
rank. But, have no fear, this is a remediable condition. But, be a dear
and do try to see some of the movies on the list,please, before voting
on this site. I really hate to see so many people make the mistake of
voting for the wrong sort of movies onto the top 10 of IMDb's very
interesting site. It's ever so declasse.Remember, an educated public is an informed public. Now, do your part.

******
25 February 2000
1

This film is nothing but one cliche after another. Having seen many of the
100's of prison films made from the early 30's to the 50's, I was able to
pull almost every minute of Shawcrap from one of those
films.While it is visually well made and acted, the story has every plot point
of
the "standard" prison film. They have the evil warden, innocent main
character, friendly guilty guy, thugs and one good old prisoner. Don't
waste
your time on this one. Rent or buy some of the classic's of the prison
genre.

******
24 September 2009
1
Shawshank is on TNT approximately five million times a year. It is the
second-highest rated film on IMDb, and it was nominated for seven
Oscars. It is a movie that can make grown men cry. Morgan Freeman and
Tim Robbins deliver great performances. Thomas Newman's original score
is beautiful. It's an engaging film about perseverance, friendship,
will power, and hope.But then again, does it really belong in the same company as Godfather,
Godfather II, Schindler's List, and other consensus top-ten films? Is
it really one of the ten best films of all time? First off, the villain
of the film, Warden Norton, is an incredibly cartoonish, two
dimensional bad guy. He and Cal from Titanic could have a
"pure-evil-for-the-sake-of-being-pure-evil" standoff. Aside from greed,
we have no idea what made him who he was. The Warden is pure evil, and
is willing to kill the prisoner who can help prove Andy's innocence in
cold blood. And yet, even though Andy is the one man who could expose
him and all his criminal dealings, he doesn't do the simplest thing and
just kill Andy. Why not? Because Andy has to wind up hugging Red on the
beach years later.Secondly, think about the scene where Andy locks himself in a room and
plays classical music over the loudspeakers to the rest of the
prisoners, who stop in the courtyard and stare up in awe and wonder.
Are you kidding me? The scene tries to be a powerful, emotional peak in
the film, but it comes off as laughably implausible, even in the
1950's.Finally, the movie makes it a little too easy on the audience by giving
it all the answers. Is Andy guilty? Does he really escape? Will he and
Red ever meet up again? Nothing is left for the audience to wonder
about, no ambiguity  everything is spoon-fed to the audience in tasty,
happy-ending bites, right up to the final "hug on the beach" scene.
Wait this movie ends with happy people hugging on a beach? Yes it
does.

******
30 September 2004
1

I just don't get it. It's not that I think this is an awful movie or
anything, but no.2? Look at the rest of the movies in the top 10. Does
it REALLY stand comparison with the Godfather or Seven Samurai? I think
not. It's a manipulative, sentimental Sunday afternoon movie, raised
above B-standard by some quality turns by talented actors. Nothing
more. And who cares whether Andy could put the poster back in place or
not. It's a patently ridiculous 'escape' to begin with. I understand
that most of the people on this site will have a pop at me for being a
snob, but the fact is I love Star Wars and Lord of the Rings and other
'blockbuster' movies. But if you're looking for a genuinely affecting
drama, this doesn't cut the mustard. Sorry, guys, but you're all wrong.


******
15 August 2002
1
There are some things in this life we will never understand... How did
the universe begin? What happens to our souls when we die? How did a
movie as bland as The Shawshank Redemption become so overrated?In the case of certain other movies, I can at least understand the
reasons why they're overrated. But The Shawshank Redemption is so...
average. And cliché-ridden. The film's moral is basically that hope is
important, and there's nothing wrong with that in itself. Heck - I have
no problem with simplicity. The problem is when you move past the
simple and into the land of the simplistic. The movie treats its
borrowed plot parts (Count of Monte Cristo, anyone?) and banal themes
as though they were freshly minted nuggets of wisdom. (I wouldn't be
complaining if it didn't pretend to be anything more than a pleasant
diversion.) However, it is with its very last shot that the movie
reveals its true condescending colours. If it had ended moments earlier
instead, with that poetic shot of the sea, I would have had some
respect for it (that's where the superior original story ends). But no,
the director had to spell things out for his audience. Frank Darabont
knows how to tell a story. He just doesn't know how to tell one with
any originality or depth.The movie is partially redeemed by three things. The majestic
cinematography, the powerful score, and most of all, Morgan Freeman,
one of the very best actors working today.As for my rating, yes I'm one of those jerks who gives a movie a 1 just
to lower it on the top 250. I think it's outrageous how highly it's
ranked here. Even the folks who made it would think it's ridiculous to
consider it one of the greatest films ever made.

******
24 May 2004
1

Shawshank Redemption has been elevated in popular opinion to the status
of masterpiece because of one irrefutable virtue. It is accessible.
Regrettably, as is true in so many cases, popular opinion is an
inaccurate gauge of this picture's actual quality. The reason this film
has attained its current level of acclaim is that it is impossible to
misinterpret its theme or message, impossible to be offended by it,
impossible to be confused by. However, as this review should show, it
is entirely possible to be unimpressed by "Shawshank."The story of Shawshank Redemption is something I might expect if I was
being pitched a script by middle schoolers. The complex coincidental
frameup, the daring escape, the clear cut definitions of good and evil.
the timeless friendship finally and uneventfully consummated on a
beautiful shoreline. Each step more unsurprising than the last, each
beat more clichéd that the last. Every time the filmmakers feel like
building tension or revealing something about the characters, they take
the most obvious road. This might be excusable if the road didn't also
lead to the most obvious destinations.People also praise the acting in the film. While it isn't at all bad,
it's hard to be impressed when the actors are playing such simplistic
roles. Stereotypes when acted well are still boring.I sincerely hope that over time, when the film has settled into history
and once people are more able to set this pandering film along side its
heavily plundered predecessors, it will become clear that it offers
nothing new, and that what it does offer it doesn't even offer all that
well.


******
24 May 2005
1
It bugs me that this movie is rated so high- not because it's a "bad"
movie, but because it's a mediocre one. Apparently, mediocre people
reward mediocre cinema. This movie tanked big-time when it was
initially released, and with good reason. It wasn't until
pseudo-intellectuals across the country started hyping it as defacto
"favorite movie" for Lowbrows world-wide that it started dominating the
IMDb "best movie" list. In reality, "Shawshank" is like a sewage pump
for every idiotic Prison Movie cliché ever made. Every guard is a
monster. The warden is religious, therefore Evil. Not a single prisoner
is actually guilty, or if they are, they're so obviously redeemed that
we're supposed to feel sorry for their unfair imprisonment. Murderers
and sex offenders sit around in beatific awe as Opera plays over the
loudspeakers. Right. The whole movie is so fake, so smarmy, and so
condescending that it's no wonder that so many Americans, (with their
odd addiction to fake, smarmy, condescending things) consider it their
"favorite movie". I guess thinking for yourself is a burden to great
for some of us to bear.

******
21 November 2010
1
this is the worst film ever to be made because its CR*P and it ain't
ready for the godfather all you r.e teachers understand that. so all
you r.e teachers be quiet before you get shanked.1.the godfather 2.the godfather pt 2 3.inceptionshank redemption is worse then toy story the whole collection it is
even worser than super babies to be honest with you don't worry it will
soon be taken out of the number one slot by Christopher Nolan Frank
Darabont is so sh*t at directing films he is worser then David Yates.
im gonna make shank redemption an offer the film cant refruse the
offer.

******
4 May 2002
1

This film is easily one of the best ever made, even when compared to such
goodies as those made by Orson Welles.It has depth beyond what would expect from a "Prison" movie.The ending was GREAT!sob


******
7 October 2010
1
I've seen a lot of movies in my days.. This one was fine, but not the
best. A movie should keep you entertained, not make you think - "When
is this going to END?" Did not deserve to be N1 in IMDb. All that surrealism, mostly boring in
parts even disturbing. Maybe few of you will enjoy it, but I think it
would be better if there was more done in less time rather than the
opposite. The same old stuff happens, like a soup opera. You like it in
the binging, you say to your self - "This will be good, IMDb was
right." but an hour later you think " Yeaah, been there done that, lets
turn it off..".Think about it, was this the best you've ever seen? No?

******
1 February 2014
1
Wow. I love this movie. To date I have probably watched it nearly 40
times... I am not obsessive, whenever it is on, I watch it.For most movies, at least the dramatic ones, I measure them based on
how they make me feel. This one makes me feel sad when Brooks dies,
angry when Tommy dies, and happy when Red finds his friend. This movie
makes me feel good. I know that is not very scientific, but it's the
truth. Because of the way it plays on me, I can't help but give it a
10. Here's why: First off, the acting. Tim Robbins is SO subtle that he
strikes me as a person that tries to bury his innocence, because in
reality it does not matter. Few would argue that Morgan Freeman is
brilliant, as usual. But here the supporting cast throws in with
equally impressive performances.The Score. Outside the music from the records appearing in the movie,
the relatively unrestrictive score just helps us confirm what our eyes
see, the walls of Shawshank. We feel them, through the music, and break
through them as Andy does.And last but not least, My compliments on the cinematography. The site
is perfect for the movie, and the clever camera angles and lighting
invite us into the dreary prison world.just the joke :D

******
4 August 2010
1
This is good example of how to not to make a movie. It begins quite
dry. The main character doesn't seem like he quite knows how to act as
he is thrown into a poorly lit scene in what seems to be the director's
garage revamped. He then goes to prison. NO SENSE WHATSOEVER! Obviously
there is a huge paradigm between what the director though the film to
be and the original writers.We then see all of what we normally find in prison, with a very fatal
exception. NO MINING! I am a personal favorite of mining in prison. I
love to see people smash rocks and burn coal for fire. We mainly find
dry dialog from what appears to be actors who have never left their
parent's basement (no wonder the director still films at his home). I
had to leave the room a few times so that I could get some fresh air
while the movie attempted be filmed. My advice is to buy this film only if you need a DVD or VHS tape for a
scrap booking project. The reflective qualities are very nice and the
packaging insert can also be used to store a home video. Be sure not to
allow the label to be visible, as that may cause your friends to disown
you forever.

******
24 June 2011
1
I don't like this movie because it is boring and stupid,not
entertaining and nothing interesting...i don't know why it is even in
top 250...people,please vote 1 for this,look at movie to see how bad it
is,and you will vote 1,because you will see how stupid,boring and not
interesting this film is....please,vote 1 and save film art,don't let
this garbage rule wonderful art of movies...how many film there
are,that are truly art made of geniuses are under this garbage of
film...you cannot put this garbage on first place...first place of all
movies is holly place for films,it should be some masterpiece put in
there...please,people,vote 1 for this garbage,i don't want to look this
even in top 250...dont destroy world of film,people,boring and stupid
film is not for top 250,especially not for number 1...i feel sorry for
epic,legendary masterpieces that are under...this...i hate this film
with all my hart and soul 1 out of 10 cheers

******
2 May 2014
1
The scene where Tim Robbins crawls through 2 football fields of shits
sums up what watching this movie feels like. The fact that this movie
is top of the IMDb top 250 list is a sign that people on this site have
no concept of good film making outside of the standard Hollywood fare.
The movie may well be enjoyable, but in the end it is no more than
that, enjoyable, and that is pushing it. The director's involvement
with other movies outside of this speak volumes: Green Mile is in a
similar mould,whilst The Mist shows his continued obsession with
Stephen King. With writing credits on over five different mutations of
Young Indiana Jones's, his incompetence is evident. At the end of the
day, a Hollywood remake by M. Night Shyamalan of this would probably be
more satisfying, and that's saying something.

******
6 October 1999
1

Tim Robbins smirks his way through this cheap rip-off of the
>"Count of Monte Cristo". The anti-Christian bigotry is too much
>to stomach -- the murderous warden wears a cross, thumps a Bible
>and utters fundamentalist platitudes. Morgan Freeman is very
>solid tho

******
10 June 2010
1
'The Shawshank Redeption' is hands-down the most overrated film of the
last thirty years. I saw it theatrically when it was first released,
and caught snatches of it on TV over the years since. I used to think
that it was just another so-so prison film until the AFI bumped "The
Third Man" out of their top 100 films to make room for this mediocrity.
Needless to say, I was shocked (also by the percentage of "best film
ever" reviews on IMDb and elsewhere). A friend presented a theory that
'The Shawshank Redemption' is the cinematic equivalent of 'The Oprah
Winfrey Show'...a portal through which guilt-ridden white liberals can
feel "hope" and (decidedly un-Christian) "spirituality" while imagining
what it would be like to have a real African-American as a best friend.
In that way, it's something of a litmus test for liberals. Personally,
I don't know any leftist who doesn't love it, or any conservative (or
even libertarian) who thinks very much of the film. It would be
interesting to do a survey of voters in the last Presidential election
and their top ten favorite films. I'm guessing that this one would have
universal appeal to those who were mesmerized by empty promises of
"Hope" and "Change".

******
27 August 2008
1
This movie (Shawshank Redemption) is a pathetic ripe off of escape from
Alcatraz and some other fine movies. kign even says he based the book
on movies he saw growing up. if you plagiarise more then one source its
still plagiarism. I thought the movie was decent until I saw Eastwoods
movie, then I new itwas pure junk.- steals the characters - steals even the pet animal - steals his job
in the jail - steals the method of escapeShawshank Redemption steals everything but replaces Clint Eastwoods
acting with amateurs. how Stephen King didn't get lambasted for
plagiarism is beyond me. This must be something he only edited for his
sack. I am sure most of the filming adding in these details and it
doesn't even follow the book. I do not see how such a blatant ripe off is considered to be the best
movie of all time by IMDb. It really takes away all of your
credibility.Both movies using a poster to cover a hole in the wall. There are just
far too many similarities between the two movies for this to be
accepted. If this was a university paper I would expect an expulsion.I guess they figure they can change the old mans pet from a bird to a
rat and everything is OK. because that clearly changes the entire
story. Lastly no one in the movie was redeemed.

******
29 July 2008
1
I have seen this movie and think it is very good, Tim Robbins is really
good in it and Morgan Freeman as usual is great. It has a lot of
original ideas and is deserving of much praise, however i really feel
it lacks something that The Godfathers 1 and 2 have. They are just a
different caliber of movie no offense to it, its very good. However Al
Pacino in both of those films is as close to perfect of a performance
as you will ever get. I really feel because it is 35 years old so many
people of todays generation has not seen it, I am 20 and own all three
and can appreciate the talent by Marlon Brando and Al Pacino in the
first film and Al in the second with Francis Ford Coppola directing
both. I understand that when someone sees a movie and they would like
to rate it on this site its difficult to see all the other movies on
the top 250, but when you are dealing with the top 5 its not that hard,
see those movies and then judge.

******
14 June 2003
1

It is one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my life. Out of my top 5
worst movies this would be in at least the top 3 movies I hate. It is just
so boring and everytime I turn on TNN or something it is on! By far one of
the worst movies ever!

******
13 May 2004
1

This movie is clearly a weak copy of "Escape from Alcatraz"(1979)
The scene where Andy drops the grit is directly and without
any effort from Frank Darabont to hide the fact that he has little
fantasy,
copied from Escape from Alcatraz.
The sphere that is created in The Shawshank Redemption is meek whereas the
sphere that is created in Escape from Alcatraz is thrilling and you can
really feel the tension in the prison.
The closed ending of this movie is for people, like Frank Darabont, that
have little fantasy.
The sublime open ending in Escape from Alcatraz leaves room for the
viewer
to fantasize on what happened to the prisoners.

******
25 October 2003
1

I was inflicted The Shawshank Redemption in a school trip coach,
where a shy girl handed the tape to the headteacher : "Sir please
sir ! Can we watch it ?". And we did, gosh, we did.  And heard it as
well. Spoilers ahead ! A very noisy film - overblown, cheesy, sappy, with ugly
slow-motions to make you understand that, hurray, at last the
characters are free (and so was I, mercifully), and the bad ones
have been punished (and so was I, and so was I...)
Yes, at last that does make sense... Next the students asked for Meet the parents - and - would you
believe it ? Ben Stiller WAS a relief. Since that moment I've always
wanted to watch Zoolander. 

******
7 March 2006
1
wow, how in the world is this film #2 of all time? Am i living in
reality? hello? hello? can you hear me? am i actually a human being
living in this world? hello? am i dreaming? there is no way in a
infinite years that this film can be anywhere remotely close to being
#2 of all time. maby the 99999999999999999999999999999999999999th film
of all time, but not #2 of all time. no.this film is for people who likes to be easily manipulatedthis film is a jokethis film is so stupid that for the first time an object acknowledges
its own retardation-revision 12/29/2009- Sorry about the above comment from years ago,
that was not very mature. This movie is okay. However, it should not be
rated so high, as there are more deserving films. I have to admit, this
movie had no emotional impact on me whatsoever when I saw it. I find it
interesting it was able to touch so many people. I still think there
was a conspiracy to boost the rating of this movie.

******
8 March 2003
1

This is the worst movie I have ever seen. It's so Hollywood cliche
!
How can this be in the top 2 best movies ever ?
I don't understand it. Avoid at all cost, this movie is boring
!

