******
18 February 2016
7
To start, just so you know who's actually writing the review. Young
fellow here, didn't watch any 'classics' horror movies but I do enjoy
horror movies in general as long as they are not just gore type of
movies. I'd say my favorite horror movies are The Ring and The
Conjuring.So, past that to The Witch. I'd start by saying the movie was not what the trailer lead me to
believe. This is not as much about scary moments or jump scare and more
about a family coping with a lost child, and the movie trying to build
suspense and just make the viewer feel uncomfortable. Because of this,
I can see why some people will see it as really really slow with not
much happening.Some PLUSES for me: - Anya Taylor-Joy (the older daughter) is amazing
in this movie and I also think Ralph Ineson (the father) did a good
job. - the score is really really good, there are periods of intense
silence and periods of creepy music at just the right times to build
tension - the cinematography with nice wide shots combined with the
score works really well in most momentsFor the MINUSES: - I felt like the other child's acting was pretty bad
and over the top and just took me out of the movie in most scenes where
they are the focus (thankfully there were not THAT many) - a bit too
slow of a pacing during the first half even for my tasteSo, just like I said in the title, KNOW WHAT YOU'RE GETTING INTO. If
you go and expect your typical horror movie with jump scares and a
hidden 'baddie' slowly revealing itself along the movie in scary
scenes, THIS IS NOT IT. This is mostly a family drama that tries to
build suspense and make the viewer feel uneasy.On a side note, I caught this on a premiere showing with a theatre half
full and the occasional comments, coughs and even laughter from some
'individuals' took me out of some moments. If you do want to watch this
in the cinemas, I would recommend waiting and going way past premieres
and on a awkward day / time so you have the cinema close to empty. Or,
if you have a sweet setup at home with a good sound system, I would
just watch it at home.

******
16 February 2016
9
The best part about The Witch, besides the acting, is the dichotomy
between drama and what is actually a surprisingly fast paced and
accessible horror movie (with few genre clichés.) The film could be
looked at as two separate stories heavily intertwined: the supernatural
horror of the woods vs the very real terror of violence erupting within
the family, and amazingly this is all done seamlessly, missing no beats
and never seeming to give up one for the other. In that way, The Witch
has the elegance of a clever children's story (A New England Folk Tale
to be precise) with the intensity of a melodrama. This would never have
worked if the cast didn't kill every role, but luckily for us they did;
they murdered those roles.I don't think I've ever actually seen a movie during which people, in
the middle of a crowd, screamed. The Witch did that. The Witch made
people scream and gasp so loud the whole room heard and it did other
things too: it told an engrossing, intelligent story. There are minor
"complaints" I may have that keep it from being 10/10 (the shots don't
carry the film as much as the writing,) but really this is a horror
film that could easily make a top ten list. It's just good fun (and the
ending is great... don't bash the ending... people are bashing the
ending but I don't know why... it's really a perfect ending...)

******
21 February 2016
7
When you leave the theater in stunned silence, I think the film did its
job. The Witch is the next low budget horror film to reach the theaters
this year, and it's easily the best. The film rarely ever relies on
jump scares to get your head spinning as the core of this film's
brilliance lies with its haunting imagery and eerie score. It's hard for an audience of this day and age to get into a period
piece set in the 17th century without any big name actors or action
elements. And I have to admit that I wasn't sure I wanted to see a film
like this, especially with its horror elements. But my eyes were pealed
from beginning to end. I wouldn't say anything about the story shocked
me or had me confused, but the imagery, score, and uncompromising
nature to Robert Egger's direction left me breathless. Within 10
minutes I was looking at the screen and whispering to myself "why would
you go there?", "Don't do that!", or "come on, really?". Not because I
thought it was poor story- telling, but because I was so invested as to
what these characters were doing.With that said, I don't think this film is for everyone. It's brutal,
harshly relentless, and utterly disturbing. The characters use all 17th
century dialogue and the cinematography sets this grey and ominous
tone. The imagery from beginning to end will stick in your head as it
has done with me. But that's the way horror films should be. I wouldn't
say it's more a psychological thriller because there are plenty of
terrifying moments, but it is more for the 'Under the Skin' crowd than
it is for people who love 'The Conjuring'. Even in its harsh moments, I
was always invested and I can't deny the quality of the writing,
directing, and acting all around. This is how you make a horror film.+Terrifying imagery+Egger's direction+Invested from beginning to end-Sometimes the dialogue is difficult to follow7.6/10

******
19 February 2016
9
"The Witch" charts a family of Calvinist dissenters in colonial America
who are exiled from their community and homestead at the edge of an
ominous forest. When the infant child of the family disappears
inexplicably, a chain of increasingly bizarre events lead to claims of
witchcraft and sorcery that implode the family.Based on the plot summary, much about "The Witch" seems fairly
predictable, and that's because it is. Robert Eggers makes no bones
about reality or superstition here; this is, as it is branded, a "New
England folktale" through and through. It's also allegorical on some
levels, and is about an English family's failure to conquer the vast
American frontier. Regardless of how it is read, the film's surface
plays out like classic accounts of witchcraft and superstition that
pervaded Puritan Calvinism in the seventeenth century.What director Eggers does here is weave a taut and unsettling narrative
through a series of meditative visuals and haunting encounters with
evil--some have said not much happens in the film, and they're
right--but is that the point of such a tale? The story is mediated
through phenomenal performances that are the real emotional center of
the film, while rare but fantastical occurrences with the supernatural
jar the audience as much they do the family.Eggers' direction is remarkable, and the cinematography consistently
captures the gloom of a New England winter; close-ups show the younger
children engaging with their ominous farm goat, while pans of
characters venturing into the woods create a legitimate sense of
danger--and that is another of the film's prevailing themes. In the
film, the threat of danger lurks in all matter, be it in the natural
environment, in doctrine, or the horrifying corporeal locus where the
two meet.Overall, "The Witch" is a surprising and moody entry in the horror
genre for 2016; it is not only recalling classicism in its period
setting and narrative, but also in its cinematic approach to
storytelling. It is old-fashioned in just about every way, but is no
less masterful at creeping into the skin as insidiously as evil does
within the family. We feel their terror, their desperation, and their
yearning for absolution; and that is what makes the film such an
effective mood piece. 9/10.

******
18 February 2016
8
I found "The Witch" to be a generally unnerving film, and one
which--though I would not place it in the pantheon of scariest flicks
I've ever seen--had some moments that I'll not easily forget.The atmosphere Eggers creates alone is enough to wrench serious dread
from scenes other directors would be otherwise unable to make even
remarkable. The score, too, helps cull this dark tone and adds life to
a film that can be borderline tedious.That being said, "The Witch" is not for everyone. It is strange, slow
but steady, gruesome at points, and almost un-watchable at others.
There are two sides to this film; one which I had hoped the director
would stick to concerning the family and their struggle with religion
and isolation; and another which plays as an undercurrent to most of
the film and then takes charge in the end. Sadly, it is this second
side which keeps me from giving the film a better score, and that
ultimately hurts the film in the very final scene.Overall, I enjoyed "The Witch" and its originality. Eggers has achieved
a film that, for all its low-budget and independent film background,
feels richer and better made than many horror entries of late. Should
you decide to see it, a word of caution: do not expect a fast-paced
movie full of jump scares and creepy crawlies emerging left and right.
As the opening credits remind the audience, this is a folktale. One
that does not shy away from exploring the real dark places.

******
22 February 2016
1
Like most other reviews here, I was lured to this movie by an
intriguing trailer and high IMDb reviews. Well, there's goes IMDb
review credibility. The movie had nothing to do with horror, and barely
had anything to do with a witch, but was little more than an old world
family religious drama. I'm not going to waste too much time getting
into the thin story but it was basically dead boring. The mother of the
family was way over the top and desperately needed a good smack. The
other characters were uninteresting or downright irritating (the
cartoonish twins come to mind). Within the first 20 minutes, I knew I
was in trouble. It just got worse from there.Several people gradually walked out of the theater, and I should have
been one of those smart enough to know nothing would redeem this mess.
When the movie ended, the entire remaining theater groaned and were
very vocal in how much they hated the movie. What made it worse was
that I decided to treat a couple of friends of mine on a Saturday night
to what we were all excited to see, but unfortunately I lost $34 and a
couple hours of life that could have been better spent doing something
more entertaining or interesting, like lancing a boil. But we did get
one unintended laugh from the film, and that had to do with a crow and
the mother. But don't go see the movie to find out what I'm talking
about, it's just not worth it.

******
29 February 2016
2
A friend and I were drawn to this film by the remarkably high reviews.
We sat in the semi- packed theatre and were ready to be dazzled. By the
end, I was surprised this film made it to theatres and I wished I would
had left with the other audience members who walked out half way
through. I will start with the positives. The acting was very good. You
could tell each actor was thoroughly into their roles. Also the
cinematography was beautiful. Some of the shots of the characters
walking in the forest stand out the most in my mind. Apart from that it
was a horrid mess. The characters speak in this form of old English
that is barely understandable. This film needs subtitles desperately.
Get ready to be completely disoriented by this films plot. Lots of
things happen and they will never be explained or addressed (like a
certain scene involving a crow or the kissing scene). The biggest
problem I found with this movie is that it is boring. The big 'payoffs'
in the plot are dull and left me more confused. The film's ending could
have been much stronger if the witches were more developed as
characters. Instead you are left with an ending that feels duct taped
to the rest of the film. It feels really out of place and is a little
too sci fi channel "B-movie" in my opinion. Wait until this film hits
free TV before you watch it. Not worth the money for admission unless
you are paying to take a nap.

******
24 February 2016
8
The Witch is a good movie, but it also has a very narrow audience. For
those that love slow, yet tense, horror films that are as bizarre as
they are scary, this film is for you. The Witch is unnerving, super
realistic, and wacky to a fault. I will say that the film's writer and
director Robert Eggers did an amazing job for a directorial debut, and
he is undoubtedly a force to watch in the future.From the opening scene of the film to the very end the film is
unnerving. The film is quite slow, but never really boring, because the
filmmakers did a great job creating a very tense tone. The tone is
essentially formed from three major elements of the movie, the
bone-chilling music, the ominous cinematography (especially in the
forest), and the always noticeable presence of darkness lurking. In
this film the titular character isn't in the film often, but their
presence is felt. Combine that with the excruciating attention to
detail, and the film takes on a sense of reality.The film is extremely realistic, and that is because Eggers took the
time, and had the attention to detail to make the film as realistic as
possible. While the dialogue may distract some, it is exactly how
people used to talk in the colonial era. The lighting is usually dim,
but is to is realistic as the film is literally made to look as if it's
being lit by candlelight or moonlight. The actors were on point, most
likely due to great direction, and the sets were almost exactly what
one would expect things to look like back then. That kind of
dedication, deserves respect, but it also helps the audience get lost
in the filmic world.However, the film is downright wacky, and in some ways that's great,
and in others it hurt the film a little. The film is unlike anything
I've ever seen before, in an interview Eggers said his original pitch
was "too weird, or too obscure" considering the film he made, I want to
see that film because this one was wonderfully obscure and weird.
However, the film was a little hard to follow, at times it felt as
though too many things would happen in a short period filled with
moments of confusion, which did help reinforce the insanity the
characters were growing into, but made it harder to follow.It may not have helped the film, but as an observation, the film was
devoid of humor. In the end, the film is original, unnerving,
realistic, very well made, but does have an obscure feeling to it. The
cinematography is beautiful, the filmmakers had an amazing attention to
detail, and horror fans will most likely like the film. If you like the
wacky, weird, obscure horror films that don't rely on clichés and jump
scares, check this film out.

******
29 February 2016
10
The Witch, following a family upon their move into the wilderness of
1630s New England, is the debut feature film from director Robert
Eggers who embeds the project with an essence of horror not often seen.
While many audiences are busy looking for, or even lazily just waiting
for, big jumps and stingers for their scares like most modern movies of
the genre, they are missing the creepy details that truly push a slow
burn like this film into horror. It's so realistically done that you
worry that it shouldn't be happening, and are likewise worry of the
consequences for the family.The ensemble cast is first and foremost in bringing this story to life.
The acting is just incredible. You can see heavy breath leaving the
body. You can see the confusion in their eyes. You can see evil
determination and quiet despair. Each actor has a moment of triumph
where their talent alone is on display, and these scenes hit like a
goat to the gut. What makes it even more impressive is that more than
half of the main cast is made up of child actors that pull these feats
from who knows where. They are eerily effective in a way that, at one
point, I questioned whether one of the children was actually an adult
acting through motion capture. It was not the case. The acting is just
that intense and believable.Other points and aspects of the film also make you question everything
you're seeing. Has any of this story been real? Is what is happening in
this story being imagined? There's a sense of ambiguity that, instead
of making things more comfortable because it's probably just an
old-timey urban legend, actually makes you more hesitant to step
further into darkness because it could very well be real. While those
horrific voices help make up a vivid and powerful score by Mark Koven,
could these chants actually be coming from nearby evil as well? The
forest, already a naturally dangerous place, is left open to become a
supernatural place of folklore where any animal you encounter could be
something more and the tall trees creep in close to overcome you.It's a masterful choice to shoot this film in more of a full frame
aspect ration, which makes its presentation alone feel old and classic,
purposefully dated to a time long since experienced. At the same time,
it subconsciously makes the film about a tight-knit family go
completely claustrophobic and uncomfortable, even when outdoors. It's
isolating. The camera is used like a lullaby, going back and forth
between sweeps across plains and utter stillness until it trances you
into the unknown. There is depth and uneasiness in every frame, and
bewilderment after every turn. Takes that last longer than expected
leave you to breathe during these down times, but there really is no
downtime when you're numbed into a sense of wonder.All of this culminates into a film that floats into a state of
euphoria, capturing an emotion that you may not have known was even
there before. It's a witch film unlike any witch film you've seen,
taken seriously and realistically, but with a climate of dread. It's a
slice of life film, really, albeit a slice of an alternative life. As
familiar in storybooks as it might be today, these were the absolute
thoughts and stories passed around by those who lived during the time,
the stories that many thought to be real. The Witch is the definition
of the American witch mythology, portrayed in its purest state of
horrific enchantment.

******
29 February 2016
1
Like many others, I was swayed...and fooled...by the overwhelmingly-
positive reviews here and elsewhere. I'm still baffled as to what
anyone found scary, frightening, horrible, unnerving, disturbing, etc
about this film. Almost nothing happened in this movie. It was mostly an indecipherable
look at a Puritan family alone on the 1600s American frontier and how
guilty their version of Christianity made them at every turn. This film badly needed subtitles. I get that they're trying to be
authentic but when 75% of the dialect is not understandable...well,
that just makes the movie that less watchable. This movie needed the actual "VVitch" to appear more often. That might
have made it more interesting. Instead, it was just scene after scene
of the family's mother and father beating themselves up due to their
warped fundamentalist Christianity. Black Phillip the Goat gets the lone star of my review, mostly for what
he does near the end, which sped up my exit from this complete
snoozefest of a movie. Same your time & spend your money on a different
film. This one is horrible.

******
28 February 2016
1
First and foremost, this is not a horror. In no way does this fall
under the criteria of the horror genre. It is not a psychological
thriller either. There is nothing thrilling, psychological, horrific,
disturbing, or scary about this movie.There is nothing to figure out, like you'd expect in a psychological
thriller. There is nothing that plays mind games on you. Just pure,
boring, dull dialog.If you go into this expecting anything other than simply watching
people live a long time ago, don't go. If you'd like to see a family
simply existing, with about 4 minutes worth of witch related (not full
blown witch scenes either) content, go see this.Playing Oregon Trail back in the day was scarier and more
psychologically thrilling than this movie. Plus, the dialog was better.

******
28 February 2016
1
Very misleading trailers. Slow plot and awful acting. It's not worth
the price of a ticket or the gas to go see it.I would have been "ok" with it, if it hadn't hyped itself up as "scary"
and such. If it had simply stuck with "New England folk tale" and not
tried to make itself out to be spooky, it wouldn't have bothered me so
much, sitting through an hour and a half of agony. I felt duped and
cheated.Several groups got up and walked out. I thought about being one of them
but kept hoping that maybe the best parts were still coming.They didn't.

******
25 February 2016
1
Went to see this movie last night. Couldn't understand what they were
saying.Don't know what language they were trying to speak but the dad
was speaking the best English I suppose. The movie dragged.It was
horrible. Would not waste my money on this if I knew it was this bad.
This is not a horror movie so if you are wanting to see something that
makes you jump out of your seat the only you will do is fall a sleep in
your seat. Really never understood out the whole story of why they left
the other Puritans. Asked everybody that went with me and nobody really
got it. There was not enough information about why they left. Also
maybe their beliefs of something. And the oldest daughter tells the dad
the younger siblings are possessed right after she told the siblings
she was a witch but then says she is not. Never could fiqure that one
out. And one more thing what was the deal with the rabbit showing up in
a lot of scenes and camera man focusing on the rabbit for 20 seconds
was he possessed too? Please do not go see this movie. You are going to
be disappointed. When the movie was over my husband said " I can't
believe we sat through the whole thing."

******
19 February 2016
1
To those looking for some good scares, don't look to this film. A
family drama is what it actually is. Don't be fooled by the reviews
calling it the greatest horror film of the year, of the decade, and so
on. To even call this a horror film is beyond me. Undoubtedly, this
film is visually appealing, with great cinematography and acting, but
the film meanders for the entirety of its runtime, constantly fooling
the audience into thinking something scary will actually happen--but
no. This is style over substance, and the director seems to have fooled
himself into thinking that this could suffice for a full length
feature. Save your time, save your money. Not even worth a rent.

******
13 March 2016
1
SPOILER ALERTIt's a bit pointless to put a spoiler alert on a film where so little
of any interest happens. The final credits cite contemporary records as
the source material for the film. The fantasies, paranoia and
superstitions of half-starved,Puritan settlers for whom witchcraft was
a clear and present danger were brilliantly treated, for example, in
The Crucible, but totally wasted here. The acting was overwrought and
each character seemed to be following an arc independently of the
others. The cinematography was OK I suppose but it would be difficult
to film remote New England forest landscapes and wide, dramatic skies
badly. We couldn't wait to leave the cinema and, judging from the
restlessness of others, we were not alone. Wish I had done more
research before buying our tickets. After a wonderful season of Oscar
nominated and other works of brilliance this was a total
disappointment.

******
1 March 2016
8
What a good directorial debut. The Witch is a solid film by Robert
Eggers. Set in colonial times in America, the story is one of a family
that is exiled from a village. The family chooses to settle near the
woods in which many strange things occur, the first being the
disappearance of the baby of the family.The eldest daughter of the family is cautious when it comes to the
woods, but that doesn't mean she can't get good fun out of teasing her
little sister that she is the infamous witch of the woods. This little
sister and her twin brother take this jest too seriously, and
eventually inform their parents of this incident. That being said,
supernatural forces are at play among the family at the core of the
movie, and tensions are raised and the family members are against each
other as possible demons.Some may find trouble keeping up with the Old English used in the film,
but it seems easy enough to understand when you compare it to
Shakespeare's works (even with modern adaptations such as Whedon's
"Much Ado About Nothing"). The person who uses this type of the
language the most is the father, William, played by Ralph Ineson.
Ineson steals the show even when the audience cannot fully comprehend
what he is saying (it is easy to get the general idea though). His
performance is probably one of the best aspects of this film, other
than the lack of great color variety that truly sets the mood for this
film.In terms of "horror" films, this movie does not produce many jump
scares, and is instead just disturbing in content, making it comparable
to films like The Shining or perhaps Rosemary's Baby. With the family
accusing each other, elements of The Thing also come into play. A solid
film when it comes to technicality and the horror genre in general, but
it could have used a bit more story and more clarification about the
demons at play in this film.3.0/4.0

******
28 February 2016
1
I created my IMDb account just to complain about this movie. It was an
absolute waste of my time and money and I recommend this movie to NO
ONE. Don't do it. Don't trust some of these reviews. Just...no. It
wasn't a thriller. It wasn't a horror. Why it even has the rating it
has, well, I have no idea. First of all nudity? There was 2 butts.
There was little to no violence. I still don't understand what even
happened. If you have watched "witchy" films of any sort you will be
disappointed this movie can even call itself "THE WITCH". I take
reviews pretty serious and I am going out of my way to hopefully save
another person from enduring whatever the last hour and a half of my
life was spent watching. Thanks.

******
27 February 2016
1
I have literally never written a review on a movie before but I feel it
necessary to at least warn anyone I possibly can to avoid the worst
movie going experience you could make in 2016. I'm not exactly sure what movie these other reviewers saw, and I have
no idea how this thing has such a high rating. I myself have enjoyed
horror movies my entire life, and although this was meant to be more of
a suspense building film it missed the mark completely. Each attempt to
bring home a scary or suspenseful scene ends in laughter or just plain
nothingness.If you are going in hope to see some good acting or good suspense
don't. Just don't.

******
22 February 2016
1
Look I May be no expert on movies but I have been a film fan for years
and this is on of the worst films that I have seen period and I gave
this film every chance in the freaking world this is a movie that was
made for Christians by Christians and it is very authentic to how
people spoke in the 1600s and the acting is not that bad the actress
who plays the oldest daughter turns in a fine performance here as a
girl who does not wish to be as religious as her family. This film is
boring from the beginning there is absolutely nothing scary about it
all this film is about from what I can tell is that you can not give in
to the devil no matter who you are god always has your back if you pray
all of your problems will go away and if your family is evil lock them
up in a horse stall and let them die because apparently there evil and
you are not. All and all I say going to this movie is a waste of
however much money you end up paying for it I swear I wanted to throw
popcorn at the screen not to mention I wanted a big time refund as well
look if you like these kind of films fine I am not telling not to go to
the film if you like these kinds of films but I do not like these kinds
of films and I would advise you not to go to this film it's a waste it
really is.

******
21 February 2016
1
Yep, this studio suckered us into believing this was a slow-burn horror
movie that would sit alongside Rosemary's Baby in the horror canon. I
assure you, this movie won't even be discussed a year from now. This
was a no-burn drama with pretty visuals, good acting, no story, and
dialogue that was 60% unintelligible. Pure style over substance. I see
a lot of reviews babbling on about religious/feminist symbolism blah
blah blah. Problem is none of this matters without story and character.
So much great indie horror that never gets a wide theatrical release
(Starry Eyes, Babadook, V/H/S, Excision I could of course go on and on)
and Hollywood gives us this. I am boycotting all future Robert Eggers
movies as he was complicit in this scam. But what do he and the studio
care? By the time bad word of mouth sinks this movie and it leaves the
theaters after week 2, they will be depositing their 20mil in the bank.
Spoiler Alert: As to the plot, it is as follows. A sexy witch in the
woods scares this family in a cabin and they go mad and mostly kill
each other (maybe because of Calvinism and misogyny and stuff). Then a
bunch of witches float in the final scene. Shortly thereafter the movie
ended, and someone yelled "refund". I went home mad.

******
22 February 2016
1
We saw "The Witch" tonight. I picked it based upon one stellar review
after the other...and all I have to say is that they must have confused
the terms "Horror" and "Horrible." This was billed as understated and
psychological ...DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME OR MONEY. I wasn't expecting an
in-your-face horror movie...I like films which get to my mind more than
shocking me with visuals...but I DID expect a coherent story line. This
film was ridiculous in plot...like a bunch of folk tales all chopped up
and then thrown together... and certain scenes were hideously
over-acted. I think that the good reviews were based on the fact that
the film makers tried to mask this as high-brow, when in actuality the
critics don't know what the hell the plot really was, and they just
don't want to admit it. It's "The Emperor's New Clothes" of horror
films...and one to SURELY be missed!

******
19 February 2016
1
The 1 star may seem harsh on a film that critics seem to be praising
like crazy. After reading reviews like "one of the best horror movies
in decades"...I gotta say, it is NOT a horror film. It is a dark family
drama with a supernatural underlying story.The music is great. The acting is great. The movie was incredibly
boring for what we were planning on seeing. It is being mis-marketed as
some incredibly frightening horror film, but it is a snoozefest if you
go in expecting this to be scary. The film opens with a bang....but then drags and drags with no real
terror...just a family going insane due to religion and isolation.
Think of it more along the lines of a slightly eerie Drama, better
categorized with the likes of Cape Fear (NOT a horror film) or Straw
Dogs. If Blockbusters were still around...this movie would have no
business being in the horror section. It should be categorized as a
Drama. Period. Horror films sell tickets, whereas indy dramas do not. This marketing
ploy is a trick to fill their pockets. But, it IS NOT a horror movie.
If you think you are going to see some terrifying horror movie, you
will be extremely disappointed as I was.1 star from me since I was bored out of my mind after being so hyped up
to actually see a decent HORROR film in theaters. If this was shown to me back in school when we studied the Puritan days
(you all remember reading the Crucible, I'm sure), I would have been
entertained and would have enjoyed it. But, due to how to movie was
marketed, I went with horror buff friends who are all stoked to see
what was supposedly " the scariest horror film in decades." Since it calls itself a horror film, I am gong to rate it as if it were
one. As a horror film, this movie is terrible. As a Drama, that'd be
another review entirely.

******
13 March 2016
10
I enjoyed The Witch immensely. The mood it captures so well. A real
bone-chilling horror story that conveys full plausibility to the world
that it depicts. And the scenery and music help the mood along very
nicely.William (Ralph Ineson) and Katherine (Kate Dickie) and their family are
expelled over some religious dispute with the plantation elders in
early 17th century New England (1630 is the date given). Even the
language used throughout the movie is Early Modern English (1500-1700)
with its thou-thy/thine-thee 2nd person familiar pronouns-now
considered thoroughly archaic. With their children in tow, they tough it out on a small farm somewhere
on the outskirts of the plantation, growing Indian corn (aka maize) and
raising goats, forbidden to participate further with their brethren in
the fortress. This forced isolation from society and other human beings
plays a significant role in the movie as does their intense religious
practices and beliefs. They take the grace of Christ very seriously as
they also do the wickedness of the Devil. The large dense forest near
their farm also plays a part in the movie. The focal point of the movie is William's and Katherine's elder
daughter, Thomasin (Anya Taylor-Joy). She is 14 or 15 in the movie and
what today would be called a pubescent teen. She is the oldest child
and is tasked to watch over the latest addition to the family, the
infant Samuel. While Thomasin is playing peep-a-boo with him, he
mysteriously disappears from her sight. The scene shifts briefly to the
shocking scene of a strange nude woman bashing the child to death and
smearing herself with his blood. William and Katherine are distraught
with grief. At first William explains Samuel's disappearance to a wolf. One other incident is worth noting. The two younger children frolic
with their large male goat appropriately named Black Phillip. Thomasin
is jeered by them as they hold her responsible for Samuel's
disappearance. She chases them and asserts that she is the witch of the
woods. After this they fear her.After Samuel's disappearance things grow more awry. His father having
failed to find game in the forest, Caleb (Harvey Scrimshaw), their
eldest son, and Thomasin mounted on the farm's only horse set out in
search of game in the thick woods. A large hare stares intensely at
them as though it has a mind of its own. Caleb tries to shoot it with
his father's blunderbuss but he misses. The shot scares the horse. He
bolts and tosses Thomasin to the ground. Caleb runs after the hare
deeper and deeper into the forest. Soon he realizes he has lost his
way. The forest is dense and scary. He stumbles onto a hut and is
greeted by a strange but alluring woman who hugs him to her ample
breasts. He returns home several days later delirious with fever and
dies mumbling prayers as though he's committed some heinous sin. As the incidents pile up, William and Katherine see something sinister
and unholy in all the goings-on and become convinced that Thomasin is a
witch and begin accusing her of witchcraft on their children, which she
vehemently denies. They are both frantic with fear and loathing and
soon they turn on Thomasin. Hysteria and chaos set in. In their
struggle to take control of her, William is rammed and killed by Black
Phillip. As Katherine tries to strangle her, Thomasin kills Katherine
with a knife. In the commotion the two younger children are killed. Thomasin is now all alone expect for Black Phillip. Although not clear,
it was hinted that she's also had some kind of sexual relation with
him. There is the mysterious scene of the witch seemingly milking a
goat, but a more sexual interpretation can clearly be made. Docilely
she follows Black Phillip into the barn where she partially disrobes,
clothed now only in her tunic.In the darkened barn we see the shadow of a man-creature who speaks to
her in a deep male voice, asking her what she wants. To experience the
world in all its splendor and glory she tells him. He instructs her to
sign allegiance to him. She cannot write she tells him. To which he
responds: I shall guide thy hand. At the very end we see Thomasin nude in the woods observing a coven of
naked witches dancing around a fire chanting curses and incantations
and then hovering lightly in the air, they ascent into the sky.
Thomasin has become one of the witches of the woods.Was she a witch? It depends on what angle we view the facts presented
to us in the movie. Within the cultural milieu in which she lived, one
would have found her guilty of witchcraft. Her punishment would have
been death by hanging or being burned at the stake. But what about our
present milieu dominated by science? A different angle would be to see
a young woman severely constrained by parental authority suffering from
a neurological disease that would today be classified as schizophrenia,
which often manifests itself in teenage years and early adulthood. In
her case characterized by the display of both auditory and visual
hallucinations (to a person having these hallucinations they experience
them as completely "real"*), paranoia, and aggrandized modes of
thought. And in the cultural milieu and isolation that she experienced,
she could easily believe she had become a follower of the Devil. So,
the appropriate answer to the question is, Which milieu does the asker
inhabit? To the actors and director, kudos to all of them. A masterpiece horror
movie. And one that is open to a sequel.Regarding the archaic English, even though I could follow the
conversations reasonably well, I honestly think subtitles would have
been helpful. 10 out of 10.* The mathematician, John Nash (1928-2015), learned how to control his
hallucinations.

******
12 March 2016
9
It has been a considerable while since a film had elicited such a pure
reaction of gut-wrenching horror from me. As a horror veteran, tired of
the same generic haunted house garbage we get month after month, year
after year, I am so happy to write that Robert Eggings brings us a film
that transcends all expectations and clichés. The Witch is a palpable
breath of fresh air for horror; or rather, a forced serving of black
bile poured down your throat to churn inside your stomach and send
shivers down to your soul. Even if, and I am certain of it, nothing here will be noticed by such a
sanitized society like the Academy or an immature audience seeking
cheap thrills, the fact remains that everything on display in The Witch
is of master-class craftsmanship. The choice of 1.66 : 1 aspect ratio,
a highly subtle effect, is most likely responsible for much of the
film's highlights and weaves a strongly claustrophobic environment.
Many of the shots are close-ups on characters' faces or characters'
backs, a technique that seems to be gaining popularity as shown by last
year's phenomenal Son of Saul. The camera rarely expands beyond the
intimacy of our characters' personal spaces and this creates a sense of
attachment and empathy wherein the viewer experiences a feeling of
active participation rather than safe and casual outside observance.The gray and murky autumnal environment is succinctly rich in flavor
which accentuates on the film's aesthetic of a "folk tale". The sky is
ever overcast, and the trees in the woods are all stripped of leaves,
remaining tall imposing husks that are easy to get lost in. The
aesthetic and environment are almost like characters themselves in The
Witch, hearkening back to Eastern European tales of the macabre, the
Grimm Brothers, or Nikolai Gogol. And like a classical folk tale,
subtlety is key here; you will find no obnoxious jump- scares or cheap
gore here. The heavy immersion power of The Witch is pulled along by the small
cast of characters who luckily, are mostly unknown. I personally
recognized no one besides Kate Dickie from Game of Thrones but this was
nothing distracting. It is easier to sympathize with people whose faces
you aren't familiar with, rather than thinking to yourself, "wow, Leo
is doing great work here". This holds immersion for the viewer, and
because the cast was enormously talented, nothing broke that immersion
or tension. The 17th century script the cast works with is written with
great care and effort and remains understandable and relatable,
creating no barriers between the film and the audience. There is a lot more I can comment on, but this is a spoiler-free
review. For any comment in regards to story, I can say that the way the
story is presented is an extremely tense family drama, punctuated by
brain-searing sequences of horror. Robert Eggers, for a debut film,
shows total command and mastery of the genre he presents, and plays all
the cards right. The sensation of horror is crafted through just enough
lingering on certain imagery, and just enough glimpses of the horrific
and supernatural to make a world of difference between a competent
period piece horror, and one of the most disturbing films of the 21st
century.

******
11 March 2016
7
The Witch is a horror film set in 17th century New England, and after a
family's youngest child is taken into the forest under supernatural
circumstances, paranoia challenges the family's Christian beliefs and
threatens their lives in ways they never could have imagined. The Witch
premiered at Sundance last year, and following rave reviews, has
finally received a wide release. The Witch is a very different horror
film that relies on atmosphere, disturbing imagery, and sound to craft
a slow, but terrifying, horror experience.The story in The Witch takes familiar ideas of witchcraft and Satanism
and puts them in an isolated setting with a family of six on the
outskirts of the forest. The father and mother preach strict religious
values, so after their youngest child goes missing, the family slowly
begins to point fingers and the dark situation becomes a witch hunt
within their own family. I liked this unique spin on witchcraft and
demons, but I only wish the characters were more interesting. The
mother and oldest daughter were the two most interesting characters,
with the rest of the family being entirely forgettable. The dialogue is taken straight out of the 1600s, so while it is
authentic, some lines and words are hard to make out. Because this
dialogue is combined with thick accents and some characters mumbling,
there were times were I was legitimately missing entire sentences. The
Witch does explore some interesting themes for a horror film, like
faith and isolation, which I appreciated.But most importantly in a horror film, is it scary? Yes, in chunks but
not as consistently as I would have hoped. The scares are not
jump-scares or anything like that. The scares are enhanced, and
sometimes carried, by sound entirely. There are many times in The Witch
where there is nothing on screen but the forest in the distance or a
rabbit in the barn, but the sound gives you an unshakeable feeling that
something terrible is about to happen. It's some of the best use of
sound design I've seen in a horror film in some time.There's also some really disturbing imagery I can still visualize a day
after seeing The Witch. The use of off-screen space is cleverly
utilized to add to the more psychological moments. There are palpable
moments of dread throughout, but after these sporadic moments, there
are lengthy scenes of downtime with the family speaking to one another
in the cabin. So while The Witch does have atmosphere, the pacing of
the scares and the storytelling makes for a somewhat uneven film from
start to finish. However, the final 10 minutes are so incredibly
twisted and satisfying that it makes up for the slower moments up until
that point.While I mentioned I was not in love with the characters in The Witch,
the film uses the forest as a character itself, and very good one at
that. The forest has an unmistakable presence and is completely
captivating because of the potential darkness that lies within.
Shooting on location with the forest and beautiful landscapes, combined
with excellent costume design, results in a low-budget film that looks
incredible. The cinematography is breathtaking, and I love the film's
use of desaturated color to add to the dark tone.While The Witch is slow at points and some characters are not very
engaging, I still found the film to be a beautiful and unique take on
the horror genre. Not to mention the last 10 minutes will remain etched
in my head for the foreseeable future. If a horror movie can affect a
viewer for even a moment following it's conclusion, it's definitely
worth a watch from any horror fans who thinks they can stomach lots of
gore, mutilation, and goats?If you liked this review, check out my website for more reviews and
movie articles www.watsonmoviereviews.com

******
6 March 2016
6
Some of the earliest settlers to America were religious fanatics - The
Puritans - who believed in strict, joyless adherence to their
principles. One byproduct of this strictness was the growing belief
that the Devil, through Witches, would possess the pure in order to
lead them to wicked ways. This fanatical belief in witches led to the
famous Salem Witch Trials of the late 1690's.Director/Writer Robert Eggers, then, asked the question in his film THE
WITCH - "What if these fables and folk stories of witches were, in
fact, true"? The result is a fascinating and disturbing film that
doesn't flinch in showing the supposed results of Witchcraft.Is it a good film...not really. It's a little too slow and the Olde
Engish language used is tough to follow (lots of "thee's" and "thou's")
and, ultimately, the tale of a Puritan family's unraveling at the hands
of the Witch is, as I have stated earlier, fascinating and disturbing
to watch, but is it entertaining? Not really.Is it a bad film...definitely not. It is a strongly made film by
writer/director Eggers who is better know as a Production Designer and
it shows, as the production values are strong and consistent, but the
plot is weak (there really isn't a plot, except that the Witch is
tormenting the family) and none of the family is particularly easy to
root for.So, do I recommend this film? Ultimately, I don't think so. I've used
the words fascinating and disturbing quite a bit in this review and
that is what this movie is...but entertaining? For me "fascinating and
disturbing" does not equal entertaining, in this case.6 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of Marquis)

******
2 March 2016
8
This is a story set in the early colonial period of New England. It has
the authenticity of a well-researched historical drama, up to and
including dialogue delivered in a period accent and vocabulary
(softened a bit so that it's easy to understand). Instead of drawing on
historical events, though, it draws on historical folklore -- it's the
story of witchcraft afflicting a family, such as might have been told
at the time.The characters are a very believable, ordinary family, with the sorts
of tensions and problems you'd expect from people living a hard and
substantially isolated life after being exiled from the local colonial
town. They also have period Calvinist attitudes, and the storytelling
doesn't present an outsider's view of this or offer a modern
commentary, but instead it just displays these attitudes and tells a
story from the characters' standpoint.Their reliance on period folklore means that it doesn't strictly follow
modern horror movie tropes, either. It has the slow build of a modern
psychological horror/thriller as well as the standard formula where
tragedies start from tragic flaws, but the traditions it's drawing on
depend on a Calvinist's conception of flaws, and treat witchcraft as a
horrible, well-understood occurrence rather than a shocking
supernatural surprise. This story applies these perspectives.It's very well done in terms of writing, acting, and other aspects of
execution, so it might have cross-over appeal to fans of horror,
folklore, or straight period drama from colonial America.

******
29 February 2016
9
The Witch is written and directed by Robert Eggers and is about a
Puritan family in early 1600s who is torn apart by a witch living in a
forest near them. Now I've been really excited for this movie for a
while and now that I've seen it, I can honestly say that this one of
the best directed movies I've ever seen from a first-time director.
First off, all the performances in this movie are amazing, especially
from the oldest daughter (Anya Taylor- Joy) and the father (Ralph
Ineson). All of the actors aren't well-known so it was nice to see some
new actors to look out for. Also, the tone and atmosphere make this
movie what it is. This movie is really creepy, disturbing and, at some
points, really hard to watch. Also, the musical score for this movie
helps you feel the tension and uneasiness of what's happening. The
cinematography and look of the movie also help set the tone. The movie
is slow-paced and there are a lot of wide shots and it worked perfectly
for this movie. Lastly, the ending was really disturbing and
interesting. It's the kind of ending that is left up for interpretation
and leaves the audience thinking about what it means exactly. If I were
to say anything bad, it would be that this is not our typical
modern-day horror movie. Compared to the horror movies that come out
today, this is a slow-paced movie that will probably leave a lot of
typical moviegoers bored and wanting more. This might be because of the
way this movie is marketed, which shows it as a full-on horror flick
specifically about a witch. While it is that in certain parts, this is
really a movie about the effects that a witch has on a Puritan family.
For what it is, this is a wonderfully crafted film that can described
perfectly in one word: disturbing. I give this a 9.5 out of 10.

******
29 February 2016
8
It's hard to classify this movie. Let's call it Gothic drama. There's
really nothing scary. I'd say overall it's unsettling. You know this
family is screwed when they leave their settlement to live alone. And
there's no ambiguity - it takes a path and goes down it.The acting is top notch. The story works when you realize what the
end-game really is. The music is downright creepy, creating a tone throughout. And that has
to be the thickest woods I've ever seen that is not a jungle.The very last scene sticks with you. It comes out of nowhere.ed

******
28 February 2016
9
The Witch is exactly the type of horror movie I have been hoping to see
for some time. It's a movie that chooses make you think, listen, and
pay attention. Too often horror nowadays gives you a couple jump
scares, then another 10 or so minutes of bad dialogue and silly plot
points that give you time to make a bathroom break and get a snack
before the next "scary part". This movie never gives you that break
from the dread, even if the movie is slow. It's obviously intentionally
slow, to truly build the characters. However it lets you know right
away that the witch is real, and it takes the most vulnerable of
victims almost immediately in very gruesome fashion. This is sort of
the brilliance of this film; it gives you a vile antagonist, but then
centers the majority of the movie around the religious beliefs of the
family, and how it is tearing them apart, and then let's you decide
which is worse. This is the type of movie that will leave some
questions unanswered, and while it has its gory moments, it's not
particularly violent throughout. And finally, the last thing I love
about this film, is that it's clear mix of a "true story" and a fairy
tale, which one depends on which century you were born in

******
28 February 2016
10
Ever since seeing the trailer a few months ago, I've been dying to see
The Witch. It calls to mind recent art-house horror movies like The
Babadook and Goodnight Mommy, but The Witch is far scarier than those
movies. It's a grim, perverse, and disturbing tale of religious
paranoia among a crumbling family that will surely be remembered
alongside the likes of Rosemary's Baby and The Omen. The Witch takes
place in 17th century in Puritan-era New England. A family is
excommunicated from their village and settles on the edge of a vast
forest. Soon thereafter, their baby goes missing into the woods, and
the family is torn apart by accusations of witchcraft, black magic and
possession. From the first ten minutes, The Witch has a morose
atmosphere and starts out with an incredibly disturbing scene. The
initial shock is carried through the next few scenes which are
dialog-heavy and slower, causing the dread to continue to the next
horror. The terror never lets up and only amplifies as the plot
progresses until the final 20 minutes are agonizing to watch. I could
only vaguely tell you how the movie ended because I was watching
through my fingers. It's perversely scary. The acting is fantastic from
the entire cast, especially from the child actors. They're given heavy
stuff to work with and pull it off with unsettling results. Along with
amazing cinematography and an ominous score, it'll be difficult to find
a better horror movie than The Witch this year. It'll leave you
shaking.

******
28 February 2016
8
I had heard a lot of good and bad stuff about this film. It was strange
that in this world of found footage horror films, bad cgi horror films,
and really poorly made slasher flicks that we could ever get a period
piece type of horror that seems like it would be closer to a true story
than any past found footage movie. I don't think this is some artsy
horror film like "It Follows" was, but I do think it is in many ways a
sophisticated horror film that uses a lot of language of that time
period. Sadly I don't think that sort of old style speaking is going to appeal
to the mass of people who wanted to see a horror films, but I do think
that it will get them talking. This is a real treat of a film that should be watched. It is not a
psychological horror flick, but rather a scary and yet neat look into
the ideas of the Salem Witch Trails that had once happened and brought
fear into many people of that era. It brings in the use of magic and witchcraft in a pretty new and
different way. It is a film that works on all levels to make the
reaction that the directors and writers want us to feel. The Witch is creepy and daring and has a lot of characters to match. It
works on multiple levels to be a cool a neat flick that I think you can
find some enjoyment out of.

******
27 February 2016
7
A deep power in all of the performances and the beauty of the writing
and execution make the experience of the film very memorable indeed. I
sincerely wish that it had gotten the math consistent in the overall
vision. It is so very well made, yet while it feels unfair to do so, I
fault the film for fumbling some vital components for me.The mix of isolation and dogmatic megalomania brings it into impressive
company of great films like "The Shining", and made even more complex
with it's perfect use of period language. However, the main concern I
have is with the specifically biblical focus of the material. The
enclosed reasoning which takes place has a depressingly real quality .
Like Christian adolescents and young adults in the 70's and 80's,
working themselves into a frenzy of panic about music played backwards
and hearing demonic messages, the sad quaintness of the delusions which
take hold becomes an initial story weakness. But it is not the only
one.There is evil in the world. The film starts to describe the evil in
ways we in the 21st century now know to be true, i.e., evil is in us,
hell is here ("The Shining"). While the film occasionally returns to
this theme, it tries, at the same time, to make us believe in it's own
bogeyman. And it does this inconsistently. Witches and The Devil are
portrayed as being a very likely phenomena while the delusional states
which bring these ideas to life are given equal weight. The math
doesn't quite add up.By the end, I don't know what the filmmaker is attempting to convey.
These people are going bonkers? These people are under attack from
supernatural forces? These people are bonkers, AND they are under
attack from supernatural forces? It may just be me, but I don't believe
that you can have both since they structurally weaken each other and
that weakness needs to be addressed in the writing. This is just my own
opinion, of course.(In "The Shining" there is a tone which maintains the consistency of
the delusion AS delusion, whereas in "The Witch" it is not seen as
delusion, but as a genuine threat. And it is ALSO seen as delusion. The
delusion weakens the threat. The reality of the threat weakens the
delusion...).I would still recommend the film since it is a pleasure to watch
something made with such assured mastery of tone.

******
25 February 2016
7
So, imagine a world where movies that make you feel good actually exist
in the form of a drug. So, like, in a typical ED, you might hear
someone shout -- "Damn it! They watched 'Mr. Holland's Opus' right
after 'Love Actually'!" or "We got another 'Scott Pilgrim' cut with
'But I'm A Cheerleader'! Get a cart!" Are you imagining that? Okay,
good. So, since the feel-happy movie drug exists and can be overused,
there exists the need for an antidote, a "Shawshank Redemption"
naloxone. "The Witch" is that movie. It telegraphs its intentions to chew up your
soul like gas station beef jerky early in the film, and it makes good
on that promise, and then some. Not only does it violate the horror
movie casualty taboos, it gets those out of the way early on so it can
move on to the meaty center of your desire to live in this world any
longer. It borrows more than one actor from the "Game of Thrones" crew,
and I can easily imagine them wrapping the project with relief so they
can get back to their wacky, more family-friendly adventures in
Westoros.(Also, if I were the devil in this situation, I would have gone a much
more efficient route. Teenagers take forever. I'd go with a much more
goat-heavy portfolio. #teamgoat
#itatleastmademefeellikeagoodparentthough )

******
23 February 2016
10
The Witch is not a conventional horror film. In fact, this film
deserves a new genre because this film is horror-drama. Everything
about The Witch was phenomenal, the acting, the writing, the beautiful
yet eerie shots, and the score. I have been waiting for a movie like
this. There is no gore, just true suspense and creepiness. For
instance, there was a scene when the oldest daughter was milking the
goat and saw blood instead. In a different setting this would be merely
a concern of the goat's health, but it was truly unsettling for her and
thus the viewer. This is a movie that encapsulates the viewer into the
scenes themselves. Everything felt like it was touched by evil thanks
to the flawless execution. I thought it was refreshing that even though
it was titled "The Witch" you only saw her once, making these
happenings more mysterious. The ending was my horror fantasy come to
life. Not because i haven't seen witches dancing naked by the fire,
I've been around the horror movie block a few times, but because of the
good daughter you're rooting for becoming an agent of the devil and
liking it. This was a drama version of Lords of Salem and a horror
version of the Crucible. So creepy and good.

******
22 February 2016
9
I came into the theater expecting to see your typical horror movie- ya
know with jump scares and an unnecessary amount of blood, but this
movie was different. It actually had a great plot and great acting.The movie has two elements of horror, the witchcraft and the family
turning on each other. The things that are left unseen are actually the
scariest.It reminds me of the Shining in the way that the family slowly loses
their minds AND there is some supernatural things going on. I definitely recommend this movie! It is genuinely disturbing and
interesting. I give this movie an A!

******
22 February 2016
9
The response I've seen for this film is that people are expecting a
simple, jump scare, gore filled, and conventional horror movie. I feel
like the same people who are giving this film such bad reviews would
really enjoy movies such as 'the brothers grimsby', a film I can only
describe as being filled with slapstick and vulgar comedy that requires
no thought from the audience.(based on the trailer and previous movies
such as 'brüno' and 'borat' which are cut from the same cloth) Unlike
those, this film requires you to really think and pay attention to
whats going on. Not because of their accents and old way of
speaking-this is a period film- but because what the actors are saying
holds all the information to keep the plot going. If you miss whats
being said, then you'll be lost. That being said, it's not without it's
laughing moments, such as the twins leaning into black Philip and say
"baa baa baa" or the way black Philip shows near human expressions (or
the way he gallops away after killing). Although, I would have liked a
little more involvement with the witch and maybe a little less rushed.
Then again, it is based on folktales which aren't very long to begin
with. What people need to understand is, this is more of a thriller
than a horror film.

******
22 February 2016
8
I haven't been scared of witches sincewell, never. As I child, I was
more frightened of creepy dolls and serial killers (probably the result
of a premature viewing of Child's Play); witches just reminded me of
Maggie Smith dressed up as Minerva McGonagall. While watching Robert
Eggers's The Witch, I was genuinely creeped by witches for the first
time in my life.In early 17th century New England a puritanical pilgrim, William,
(Ralph Ineson) is at odds with his plantation's church. In an act of
religious pride he moves his family outside the plantation's walls and
into the unsettled Northeastern wilderness. However, when William's
daughter, Thomasin (Anya Taylor-Joy), allows the newborn to suddenly
vanish, the family begins to descend into chaos.Going into the theater, I was anticipating reviewing The Witch as a
genre film, but don't be fooled by the title; Eggers (the film's rookie
writer and director) has far loftier aspirations. The script is
thematically dense and every element of the film, from the lighting to
the camera movement and placement, compliments those themes. The
dialogue, too, is, at times, almost impenetrable and undeniably
ambitious. Don't expect cheap jump scares or a threadbare plot.This, alone, would keep The Witch firmly entrenched in the realm of
pretentious art films, but in Eggers, and his entire team's execution
of these ideas, the work is magnificently elevated. It is a tonal
masterpiece. From the beginning montage, where we are introduced to the
world of the supernatural, to the ending's chillingly satisfying final
image, you can see the meticulous calculation that went into the making
of this movie. The result is a slow burn that never feels boring, but
instead leaves you waiting, in anxious anticipation, for a moment of
terrifying climax. Moments like that are why we go out to the movies.
There's nothing better than that sense of fulfillment, especially when
it's tinged with a lingering psychological thrill.My lone misgiving with the film, though, lays with the acting, Perhaps,
in his concentrating on the stunning visuals, Eggers ignored his child
actors, who periodically seem lost in the script's archaic diction. The
adults are fine, and I was mesmerized by Ineson's gruff, haunting
voice, but young Mercy (Ellie Grainger) and Jonas (Lucas Dawson) are
occasionally grating, and distractingly so. Even Caleb (Harvey
Scrimshaw), who nails his important exorcism scene, falls flat on a few
of the lower-key scenes. Taylor-Joy is the lone exception. She is
mesmerizing throughout, and I wouldn't be surprised if she becomes a
breakout star as a result of her work here.Those few hiccups won't ruin the film for a student looking for an
interesting, new scary movie to occupy a study break, though, and for
cinephiles searching for the next, modern horror classic, The Witch is
your ticket.

******
22 February 2016
8
I think the reason some people didn't like this film is because they
went in expecting it to be your typical suspense-laden, full of jump
scares type of horror film and that is not this movie. The Witch
focuses on the psychological decline of a family - how quickly it can
happen and how it effects the dynamic of the household. The horror
aspect comes from the creepiness which surrounds this film. It's a
throwback to old Hitchcock films, and more recently, "Goodnight Mommy,"
in that it makes you question what is real and what is not. The acting
is superb. Every actor in this film will make you uneasy at one time or
another, which, of course, is the point! The only reason I didn't give
this movie a 10 is because I didn't love the ending. Well, not really
the ending itself, just how it played out on screen. But aside from
that I thoroughly enjoyed it and would highly recommend it. Just don't
go in expecting tons of jump scares and gore because you will be
disappointed. Instead go in with an open mind and leave feeling a
little better about the dysfunctions in your own family!

******
12 March 2016
7
I am going to walk through the entire movie and explain everything that
actually happens. Based on reading this, it is unlikely you will have a
desire to see this movie, so stop here if you so wish, or just take my
word for it that this movie is definitely worth a watch.Okay, here is The Witch at face value. The movie starts with a family
of 7 being kicked out of a puritan community because...well I have no
idea why they were kicked out, they speak in this crazy language that
sounds like drunk Shakespeare. "Dost thou barter a pic sixpense for me
ninny?" Is something that was said during this movie. So the family
drives this wagon (that totally looks like it's going to fall over) out
of Jamestown or Boston or some sh!t and drive it to a field where
they're gonna start new lives. The father builds a house and other
manly sh!t while the daughter plays peekaboo with the family baby. She
closes her eye for like 4 seconds and loses the baby. Horrible
babysitter. The family moves on, because you know, back in those days
like 80% of babies died. Anyway, The father and eldest son go hunting
and try to shoot a rabbit, but the rabbit looks at them menacingly and
his gun jams and something flies in his eyes, which are unaffected for
the rest of the film. Then the boy and father get home and the two
youngest children are playing with the family goat. The next morning
the boy wants to go hunting but his older sister won't let him go alone
and so she goes with him. After like a mile the girl falls off of the
family horse and the boy goes on without her and makes out with this
hot but clearly evil woman who came out of a tree. The girl wakes up
and runs home to tell the family, later that night the boy teleports
back to the home completely naked. The eldest daughter is accused of
being a witch because the naked boy who was left out in the rain won't
wake up. Then he wakes up and it turns out he was just choking on a
gross apple. Then he re enacts what would appear to be an entire
performance of Macbeth before dying. The Father thinks a witch killed
his son and does what every rational parent would do, and locks every
one of his 3 remaining children in sheds outside. He then stays outside
and prays while eating dirt. Meanwhile, a crow goes in to motor boat
the mother. Morning comes, the family goat kills the father, the two
youngest children vanish and the mother tries to kill her only
remaining child. The eldest daughter stabs the mother, goes to nap in a
shed, wakes up to talk to the devil, then goes into the woods where
tons of tastefully nude women are dancing and flying. The end. That's the movie, but you have to believe me...it's worth a watch.

******
12 March 2016
8
I've heard a lot about this film prior to going in. It is the sort of
film that you either really like or really dislike and it is clear why.
The Witch is a 1630s English folktale and it doesn't shy away from
showing that. Things get very real very fast and i can easily say this
is the most unnerving films i have been to see for quite some time.By that i don't mean it is a jump scare fest. I've seen a fair share of
horror movies this year and all of them have been complete tripe, with
countless jumpscares and a put you to sleep kind of vibe. The Witch
features my favourite type of horror, the psychological type, and with
that it provided something truly unique. The plot is simple, a 1630s
family is torn apart and plagued by witchcraft and terrible unsettling
things happen. Of course a lot more does happen, and over the course of
the film i felt more and more uneasy. I have heard people complain the
1630s feel makes it boring, but never once was i bored. I was
transported straight to this time period and i was transfixed to the
screen for the entire duration. This is very much a family film and
every member of the family does such an amazing job. The father of the
family plays his role so well and you are constantly guessing what he
is possibly hiding. This film will keep you guessing the whole way
through, but does a stellar job at getting right inside your head and
under your skin.The first scene where the witch was introduced to the audience happens
quite early on, it genuinely terrified me. Not to the point i was
screaming aloud and jumping out of my seat, it was a different type of
terrified. I was glued to my seat, not able to take my eyes off the
screen as the sounds from the speakers were ringing through my ears
getting louder and louder until the scene changed and put me back into
reality. All of the scenes like this were the same, they would consume
and take you out of reality for a bit to remind you that what you are
watching is something that could have easily happened. It was
terrifying also how realistic this film actually was, i know it was
only filmed over a course of 25 days but it feels like the camera crew
literally went out to film a 1630s family suffering from the threat of
witchcraft and put it into a 90 minute film. I love when a 90 minute
film can pull you in so much that it feels like a lot longer. I hope psychological horror makes a huge comeback, i said this when i
reviewed It Follows and until now, nothing had quite compared, but The
Witch does. It is the best horror for a very long time and is one that
i will honestly be thinking about for well over a week because that is
what this genre of film does for me. Go and see it in cinemas.. but if
you are faint hearted then beware because it will keep you up at night,
in the best possible way.

******
12 March 2016
10
In 1630, New England, a farmer and his family are forced out of the
safety of the walls of their hold and into the middle of a baleful
woodland, isolated, generating the haunting atmosphere we feel
throughout the film. The script keeps you on your toes, and asking
questions; you never quite know what is coming which off sets you with
such mystery. Even though the small cast was eiver limited inexperience
or had never taken so much screen time, they do outstandingly in each
and every one of their roles. The time period compliments the film by
sowing us just how families treated each-other at the time. Today, you
wouldn't find a family so cut off from the outside world so easily;
Today, you wouldn't find a family acting the way they did towards their
farm, each-other or the surrounding area; Today, you won't find a
family clinging so blindly to their religion as this family did.
Religion is a key player in this film and The Witch simply wouldn't
work without it. With so much going wrong, making the family feel more
and more vulnerable, their God fails to stop their suffering or help
them in any kind of way, as the family is left at the mercy of the
witch. From the way I was on the edge of my seat, grin from cheek to
cheek, absorbing the horrific atmosphere of this marvellous film which
left me feeling haunted to this very moment, you will be invested from
beginning to end. Fresh-faced director and writer, Robert Eggers has
truly made an amazing start to his career.

******
8 March 2016
10
From the beginning to the end of this film, a unique sense of dread and
disgust plagues the family in the film, as well as the family. There's
no apt way to describe the feeling this film is going to give you. It's
a festering feeling that sits in the pit of your stomach that only gets
more agitated as the images of the film sit in the sub-conscious. The
Witch is truly unique in that regard; it's a new breed of horror never
before seen by the genre. If you're expecting jump-scared and
quick-cuts, prepare to be disappointed. This is a film which takes its
time and demonstrates mastery of several technical elements of
filmmaking. The cinematography is beautifully framed, well-lit and
really adds to the uneasiness 'The Witch' aims to evoke. The
performances across the board are brilliant, even among the child
actors (though, be warned, the entire film is in Old English so pay
attention to the dialogue). The direction and production design is
especially impressive considering this a first-time director and
long-time production designer. Eggers really hit the nail on the head
with this horror masterpiece, which will certainly root itself in
Horror film history. Do yourself a favor and watch this film whenever
you can. Just don't expect any warm, fuzzy feelings walking out of it.Grade: 10/10

******
7 March 2016
6
Absolutely top notch on historical accuracy and high production value
for a small team/low budget film.You really need to have closed caption available in order to watch
this. Too many people talking too fast and too low while speaking an
older form of English makes some scenes' dialogue difficult to
understand.The end left everyone in the theater wanting, though.This film was wonderful at pulling you into the mindset of people from
its time-period. It managed to be scary... but in a different way than
modern viewers are used to..

******
2 March 2016
9
It wasn't easy sitting in a theater full of people who seemed to deeply
dislike this movie, many people felt the need to mock the film and some
even boo'd when it was over. But I managed to block all that out
because I absolutely loved this movie. The realistic atmosphere pulled
me in early and had me feeling very uneasy (in a good way) at times.As many people have said before me, it is important to know what you
are getting into when you watch this film. This is not the usual
jump-scarathon type movie that we are use to seeing in theaters.
Instead it is a slow burning psychological horror film that is unique
and very creepy. This won't be for everyone, but those who can appreciate psychological
horror will most likely really enjoy it. 9/10

******
29 February 2016
10
Horror has been having it's highs and lows as of recent. There have
been some fantastic film, like It Follows and some duds, such as last
year's Dark Summer. Luckily, out of the dark waters of big budget
horror comes spectacular indie horror films that defy the genre. The
Witch defies what horror has been and what it will be.The Witch is one of the only films to rattle me to the core. I found
myself alone in the theater, luckily being the only one to watch this
film. I had nobody else there to watch with, feeling just as isolated
as the characters in the film. I had to tell myself that this was just
a movie several times throughout, as I became so invested in the film
that I forgot it wasn't real. Being alone, I was fully able to immerse
myself into The Witch, a feeling that I never will forget.This film is beautiful. Not only is the script perfect, the score is
absolutely beautiful. It is absolutely haunting, creating the perfect
atmosphere for the film. The score was perfect, coming in at the right
times, causing so much more tension when there could have been some
just from the film alone. This film, as many others films could have
been, relies heavily on its soundtrack, as it puts forth even more
dread than presented in the film. Without the soundtrack, this film
would have felt extremely empty. But, the score needs a great movie to
work efficiently. And Robert Eggers directing the film makes the film
worthy of such a fantastic score. His camera work seems like he has had
years of experience, while this is his debut feature. He had control
over all aspects, as well as a clear goal that he wanted to achieve.
His choice of color palate also was fantastic, as the cool blue tones
had the feeling of dread, which is constantly present throughout the
film. There were some scenes that were extremely dark and hard to
watch, but this makes the film even more mysterious and it makes you
even more uncomfortable than you were before. If this film were
directed by another person (many other horror films are like this), the
film could have been an absolute trainwreck. But in Eggers' hands, The
Witch is able to prosper and become the film that achieves its full
potential.The acting was superb as well. These performances felt extremely pure,
since it seemed as if I were watching something filmed during the time
the movie was set in. The standout, of course, was Anya Taylor-Joy. Her
performance was the most genuine, where Ralph Ineson gives the most
powerful performance. Both actors together had fantastic chemistry,
creating the tension and bond needed for the film to succeed. Katie
Dickie also was fantastic, being able to completely become a grieving
mother. This cast was honestly just stunning.I can say that The Witch is not for everybody. I've read countless
reviews claiming that this is the worst movie that they have seen. I
feel that this film should not have had a wide release, as the general
public won't, and hasn't, enjoyed the movie at all. If this film was
released in independent theaters, I think that there would be a whole
other reception from the public, as not everyone would be going and
seeing it. Nonetheless, The Witch is absolutely an amazing film.While 2016 doesn't seem like it will be the year where many quality
horror films are released, The Witch absolutely makes up for the movies
that won't be coming out. While this film may not be for everyone, it
should be taken with a grain of rice and should be at least considered,
as it is a fantastic film. I can say that this may be one of the best
films of the year, as well as one of the greatest horror movies to be
released.

******
29 February 2016
9
I approached this particular witch with caution. At first glance it
appeared to be sharing DNA similar to that spooned from the same
misfiring cauldron as two of my least favourite sub-genre outings of
the past 15 years: M Night Shymalan's The Village and Ben Wheatley's A
Field In England. The Buzz generated from early reviews & trailers
promised the visual aesthetics of the former and theatrical bombastic
lingo of the latter and I braced for another hyperbolic disappointment.But I needn't have worried, as writer/director Robert Eggers debut
effort delivers full on its promise with a slow burning historical tale
of external evil manipulating internalised religious fervour to its
ultimate sticky end.The story involves a puritan family of seven ousted from the safety of
their colony into a life of corn-crunching hardship in the fertile land
of New England's past. But deep in the forest lurks an unspeakably
malevolent force that wastes no time instigating a plan of destruction
for its unsuspecting neighbours, and it isn't too long before finger
pointing accusations of witchcraft begin and the ship of dread sets
sail toward its unknowable, terrifying destination...With more than a passing nod to lurid 70's classic Blood On Satan's
Claw, Eggers' wicked 17th Century yarn is alarmingly brought to life by
his informed ear for the period dialect and the remarkable DP work of
his cameraman Janin Blaschke, whose lighting skills drain just enough
colour from the landscape to make you believe we're right slap-back
bang in the middle of pre-creature comforts 1630.There's no shirking from the harsh day-to- day realities & tensions of
these new/olde' puritans existence, but Eggers' screenplay never loses
focus on their humanity as a real living, loving family unit either. As
the dogmatic hubris of ingrained faith begins to tear them apart from
within, the dynamics of the story stubbornly refuses to make snide,
self-righteous judgements at their expense, so we always care about
their survival even when it looks like things are heading to the point
of no return. Any whiff of archaic restraints imploding on the usage of Eggers'
authentic dialogue is expertly staved off by a first-rate cast who
deliver it with unforced conviction. Ralph Inesen and Kate Dickie as
parents William and Katherine (respectively) are very fine indeed, but
it's their brethren of offspring that steal the show with Harvey
Scrimshaw's Caleb and star player Anya Taylor-Joy as Thomasin making
the biggest splash via two of the most original and, not to mention,
rudest sexual awakenings ever committed to a horror film.And yes, The Witch is very much a horror film. Brooding atmosphere and
disquieting menace take precedence over the urge to indulge the usual
tired genre tropes, and the more conventionally minded patron seeking a
roller-coaster broomstick ride might be put off by Eggers' steady,
deliberate pacing. But when it's ready to get its hands dirty, out come
the teeth and claws to reward your patience, not least by landing a
jump scare I guarantee you will not see coming, but boy, will you feel
it! This one isn't called The Witch for nothing.Eggers' draws everything to a close via an orgasmic flash of perfectly
timed delirium that, intentional or otherwise, hits a key visual beat
from Logan's Run. The reference points don't stop there either as the
eerier aspects of the iconic soundtracks for 2001 and The Shining are
gleefully aped by composer Mark Korven's score. His music enhances the
outlandish finale to such a spine tingling degree, you almost feel as
though you've snuck a peek behind the magic curtain to witness one of
the world's best kept secrets.Voices of dissent have called out this ending as a step too far. But
for me it's further proof of the movies balls and insurance against a
branding from the dreaded 'Psychological Thriller' iron too. The Witch is lean, mean and when it chooses to be, damn right nasty. By
stepping back in time to the darkness of our past, Eggers' has sneaked
the genre creeping and cackling into the 21st century with an entry to
make you think twice about picnicking in the woods anytime soon. And to
that, I raise a glass of bloody goat's milk. Cheers Phillip!

******
28 February 2016
2
The two stars goes to the actors. That's it.But seriously, how do people actually like this movie? I see what the
film creators were trying to do, but it's not gripping. It's not
chilling. The tension in the family doesn't come off as gritty and
compelling, it's was just dull and lifeless.The plot is exceptionally thin and half the characters were so annoying
I just kept hoping they would kidnapped as well.I guess if I can compare it to something as far as the hype verse the
payoff, it would be the Blair Witch Project, which was a total disaster
as well.Do yourself a favor and don't go see this movie. Wait till it's free on
TV and put it on as your about to take a nap. You'll thank me.

******
28 February 2016
2
This was my wife's choice for our movie entertainment this weekend
which was surprising since suspense has not been a traditional choice
of hers if at all. I think that the historical realism as regards
costume, setting and language was what baited her in. Those
characteristics were available in abundance but they certainly didn't
save the story. In fact the language was as much a detriment as a
bonus. You end up trying to figure out what is being said more than
following the plot which for this movie might be a good thing. Suspense
was mostly characterized by spooky music with zero action to accompany
it and depressing sets/scenery. You come away thinking that 17th
century colonial life is gray, cloudy and dismal. The plot is
characterized by a couple of gruesome actions that are barely related
to each other and do nothing to build much of a story line. I felt like
I was watching short stories from "Creepy" magazine that the writer
tried to tie together but didn't quite succeed. The historicity
disclaimer at the end, telling us that the movie was based on period
records and dialogs, were poor attempts to document and pretentiously
justify a shambling, depressing fantasy whose finale is a talking goat
and chanting naked women floating around a bonfire (which are not
DOCUMENTED as ever actually happening in any source I know of). When
the credits came up my wife looked at me and said, "Really?".
Apparently, to many, this bit of pretentiousness is meat to the large
number of people who have jumped on the bandwagon of the even more
pretentious Cannes Film reviewers that thought this was a good movie. I
mean c'mon, did you really enjoy this dog?

******
27 February 2016
10
The shadowy and untold world between what we fully believe and the
unexplained is scarier than anything in your well-worn campfire
stories.A highly zealous puritan family in New England circa 1630 is banished
from a large settlement and forced to live on their own in the
uncharted spooky woods that surround the area. A year later as they
forge a living together out in the wilderness, something begins to act
on all of them, something devious, wicked, and insidious. Their oldest
child, a daughter named Tomasin played remarkably by Anya Taylor-Joy,
is taking care of the new-born baby when it is snatched away. Almost
immediately an unspoken change occurs between her and the rest of the
family especially between her parents played strongly by Ralph Ineson
and Kate Dickie. They begin to act strange around her, seemingly
suspecting her of the deed and perhaps something more nefarious. But do
they really believe that she is in some way responsible? Is she
completely innocent or in fact turning into something from folklore and
scripture?This stunning debut from writer/director Robert Eggers is a
tense-atmospheric- historical drama centering on the fringes on
hardened belief, the unexplained and supernatural, and the maddening
hysteria that can come from all of them crossing- over into each other.
Set some 60 years before the infamous Salem Witch Trials, Eggers has
seemingly traced the root causes of the tragedy, most notably with the
extremely pious that anything beyond their understanding is an affront
to God; the core of their beliefs. The victims of this infamous Witch
Hunt tragically unable to plead their innocence against the tide of
fear and paranoia that griped their towns, neighbors and families.Anya Taylor-Joy as Tomasin plays the ostracized girl with doe-eyed
innocence, but with fleeting glimmers that something may not in fact be
right with her, supernatural forces notwithstanding. She is growing
into maturity, suddenly experiencing changes both physical and
emotional and because of the distancing she is feeling from her family
she is coping with them on her own. Only her brother Caleb, played
powerfully by Harvey Scrimshaw, seems to even be able to reach out to
her, nonetheless an uncomfortable undertone to their relationship
develops that further divides the family.As family members begin to suspect one another of evil tidings, the
grey New England skies seemingly become darker, their farm animals
begin to act wildly and the very woods themselves take on a menacing
presence. Getting to the point where even a wild hare is as unsettling
sight as the titular Witch on-screen. That is masterful horror cinema,
akin to Polanski and Kubrick, generating an constant oppressive
atmosphere of dread. The horror genre is experiencing a welcomed
resurgence in that last few years with the likes of The Conjuring,The
Babadook, It Follows, because the filmmakers carefully take the time to
portray their worlds from an oft-kilter perspective. To take a line
from the Bard "Something is rotten in the state of Denmark". Something
is wrong, we can't quite point it out, but something isn't right.That is what true horror is, derived from a primal fear of the unknown
and unexplained. Horror genre filmmakers in recent years have tried to
manufacture scares into what one can call Shock cinema. Trying to put
"frightening" images and gore on-screen and using jump-scares to try an
jolt their audiences into thinking for an instant "Well, that was
scary." While that may work for amusement park rides, film is a
completely different beast. It is able to grant a unique perspective
and understanding of the nature of fear. Nothing should be on-screen to
shock an audience, at least in the cheap thrills department. You can be
unsettled and disturbed by what is happening in the narrative
certainly, but as part of the film's experience you should be trying to
understand why you are feeling that way.The Witch is the crown-jewel in the recent string of truly disturbing
horror films. A darkly beautiful film shot by Jarin Blaschke that
treats its New England forest setting in a suffocatingly claustrophobic
manner. The production design team render period authenticity from the
cloths, lodgings and especially the 17th century style of English-
speaking that may be hard for some to follow but the dedicated
performances keep you engaged and concerned. The eerie musical score by
Mark Korven makes the haunted woods seemingly sing not unlike the
monolith in 2001. All these outstanding cinematic elements compliment
one another to create a vision of hysteria that would manifest itself
in real-world horrific ways in the area's history.At my screening just as the end credits appeared, another member of the
audience cried out "That's it? What was that?" in a unsatisfied tone.
"What was that" indeed, I guess we never really truly grasp what lies
waiting for us in the darkness when we journey to the edges of what
we're used to.9.5/10 (An unsettling film that depicts the primal fear of the unknown
in uniquely disturbing ways. An atmospheric horror film that has truly
terrifying historical roots in the real-world, and never cheapens its
storytelling for an audience.)

******
27 February 2016
9
The Witch was a tremendous cinema accomplishment, especially as the
introduction to the big screen for the director. "Evil" has very rarely
been so perfectly captured on film. It was not the physical presence of
"The Witch" that had you gasping for air, it was instead the pungency
of evil that enveloped the entire film. The plot was outstanding and
the realness of the situation truly left chills long after the movie
was over. "The Witch" is not a film that was meant to be taken lightly.
It was a statement, a portrait of how diluted and powerful evil can be.
There are no gimmicks, no flashy scenes, no jumps. The fear is meant to
linger and leave the theater with you. This movie will not be enjoyed
be everybody. It will require a deep thinker and a certain belief or
understanding of religion in order to capture the full spectrum of
terror provided by this film.

******
22 February 2016
8
. . . such as, "What IF Satan is Real?" and "What IF the Devil always
has been Top Dog in the U.S.?" THE WITCH shouts a resounding "You
Betcha!" in answer to both questions. If THE WITCH's viewpoint is
correct, it certainly would make a few turns of events easier to
understand, such as the unparalleled Genocide wiping out 90% of 837
Native American Nations, Black Slavery, The Civil War, Concentration
Camps for the Japanese, John Wayne's anti-Semite Witch Hunts, and Trump
in the White House. Certainly, the filmmakers responsible for THE WITCH
have carefully crafted this flick with as much True Believer fervor and
attention to detail as the people behind Mel Gibson's THE PASSION OF
THE CHR!ST. No corners are cut in the pains-taking regard for period
language, belief systems, and social fabric here. It's as if viewers
have stumbled out of a Time Tunnel just as America is signing over her
Soul to Baal. This film does more to show Evil Triumphant than any
movie Hitler's Videographer, Leni Riefenstahl, ever churned out. The
only caution to be made is that THE WITCH seems to have emanated from
Satan's Playground, a.k.a., Canada.

******
22 February 2016
7
The great things about this movie are: - The acting. From the children to the parents, the acting was great,
the dialogue is very believable.- The script. It's a good story all around, maybe could have been
expanded slightly but it was still good.- The setting/visuals. The time it was set, and the location on the
edge of the woods makes for a great horror movie.One of the only problems with this movie is that it shouldn't really
have been labeled a horror... although I'm not quite sure what would be
a more accurate genre. Something psychological. Like "The Shining", but
with much less of the scary/creepy visuals. (there are still some) It's
more about a family's mental breakdown.The other problem I had was that yes, it is a little hard to understand
the characters sometimes. The dad is the worst. I had trouble in the
beginning but if you devote a little more of your attention to what
they're saying it should help.My advice is, don't go in to it thinking you're seeing a run of the
mill horror movie where your heart is pounding, wondering when the next
jump scare is going to be. There's few, if any. (depending on how
easily startled you are). Go in thinking you're going to see a well put
together movie, with some psychological elements to it.I was thinking about giving it an 8 because the acting, setting, and
dialogue really blew me away, but, I gave it a 7 because I felt the
ending could have been slightly better.

******
22 February 2016
10
Today's movie The Witch finally addresses two things that aren't just
scary, but terrifying; historical prejudices and a trapped location.
The early seventeenth century marks the earliest of American history,
not too long after the pilgrims made a home for themselves in the New
World. With a land that was mostly unknown and passage back to Europe
taking weeks, that's a great example of a location where you have no
choice but to face it head on. Even without the possibilities of
something supernatural, there's still animals and Native American
attacks that could prove forceful and frightening.At the time, the pilgrims left England as they felt the religious
standards were too lose and wanted to practice without ridicule. The
last thing you want is to be stuck with pilgrims as their moral beliefs
steam from the ideal that if someone is acting out of the ordinary,
then they must have made a pact with Satan. This would even lead into
the famous Salem Witch trials that persecuted several people that were
have thought to have practiced witchcraft. While this film is set
decades before those trials took place, The Witch paints a scary
picture that would make any fundamentalist into a pilgrim. Within the early days of the New World, William (played by Ralph
Ineson) is even more religious then his fellow pilgrims, deciding that
he and his family need to leave the plantation and search for their own
home. He settles on this parch of land where he builds a farm and try
to make a life for his wife Katherine (played by Kate Dickie), eldest
daughter Thomasin (played by Anya Taylor-Joy), eldest son Caleb, twins
Mercy and Jonas, and baby Samuel. Things get creepy right away when
Samuel is taken while playing a game of peek-a-boo with Thomasin.Katharine spends her days crying to god while Caleb and William do
their best to hunt to feed their family. Thomasin overhears that her
parents want to send her to another family now that she's approaching
womanhood. This put more tension within the family as crops are failing
and are not even sure they will have enough food during the upcoming
winter. Caleb then goes missing during a hunting outing with Thomasin's
twin sibling accusing her of being a witch. When Caleb is found close
to death, more eyes from the family blame Thomasin for the bad things
happening, despite her innocence.The Witch is film that scared me more then half of the horror movies
I've seen in the past three years. A lot of it has to do with the
setting as the entire story feels unsettling. The dark imagery of the
forest, the farm and even a simple dinner feel threatening as if there
is no escape from any danger. Anya Taylor-Joy is a total breakout as she represents the last of
innocence that any girl would have, regardless of that time period or
now, within this circumstance. She carries the movie well enough that
we wanted to see whether she'd escape.The story manages to remain more layered then it needs to be. With
little explanation on what the monster is here. The filmmaker
understands that the scariest ideas may not be the unseen force, but
rather the people that start to look at you at the first sign on
trouble. I would love to watch this again, though subtitles would be a welcome
addition. Everyone talks in an older, Middle-English tone that makes
the setting more alien, though a little hard to understand. Slasher
fans may find this too slow, but it freaked me out.I'll give this ten black goats out of ten. The Witch is everything I
want in more horror movies; a total feeling of creepiness, a
defenseless set of people, and a unique setting. I'm sure that more
horror writers will take inspiration from this.

******
21 February 2016
6
This is a well-done independent film ... but it's definitely not for
everyone.Think of it like a critically acclaimed, low-budget foreign-language
drama or art film ... if you'd normally go see a movie like that, then
I'd recommend seeing it. Otherwise, this might not be the right movie
for you.There were more than a few people who walked out on the movie in my
showing - probably because they were expecting a more traditional
"hollywood" style / mass-appeal movie, not Shakespearean-like dialog in
a limited 17th century setting. I'd say that's 90% of the movie.Outside of that -- I kind of liked it after I let go of my
expectations. It's dark, well acted and, even if the dialog is nearly
impossible to understand, quite atmospheric in terms of a period piece.It's basically about a fundamentalist religious family that starts to
experience misfortune when they separate from their settlement.
Mentally, they can only understand the world in terms of being sinners
and that fate is the will of God --- or is due to one of the kids
becoming a "witch" by siding with Satan.Yes - there is a supernatural element going on - but don't expect to
see as much as it as you'd get in a traditional horror / scare movie.Again - if good acting, atmosphere and foreign language or art-type
films are something that would interest you -- then you have the right
mindset and I'd say definitely it out. Everyone else -- I warned you.

******
12 March 2016
1
OMG this was probably the WORST movie I have seen in a very LONG time!!
My son and I absolutely love horror movies and he fell asleep!! I guess
the first sign should have been it was only 6 of us in the theater.
After this complete waste of time movie went off we all concluded that
this was 2 hours of our lives we will never get back! DON'T WASTE YOUR
TIME OR MONEY unless you are an immortal and absolutely nothing else to
do with your life! And even THEN I would advise against it!!! This is
my first movie review and I only created my account just to warn people
of the shear horr(ible)or you will endure while trying to suffer
through this movie!! I wanted to leave so bad but I already paid my
money and the food was really good.

******
11 March 2016
1
The scenes were beautiful, the acting well done.. the plot, the story
horrible. There was violence but senseless violence, I understood every
single word of the movie even tho it was old English, From the very
first scene to the last the movie made no sense. I don't know what
movie the good reviewers saw but people left the movie theater I was
at, teenagers, older people, The movie started out with almost no
seats, by the end there may of been 10 of us left in the movie theater.
All of us were taken back we were like the reviews said it was a good
movie best horror movie in awhile ... To sum the movie up Disappointed.
If someone paid me to watch it again I wouldn't.I honestly believe the good reviews were people who were paid to write
them, or paid off critics, I bet they gave out gold and diamonds in the
review bags, maybe some hard cash too, threw one heck of a review party
because the movie I saw was awful I'd give it a -2 stars because
honestly if you turned off all the sound ignored the dialogue and fast
forwarded thru the violence and the really bad ending, you *might* have
a beautiful and sad sense of what it was like to be a pilgrim in the
17th century.

******
11 March 2016
2
Honestly I went into this expecting a slow horror. However I must say
the acting was really good and so was the camera work but as a movie
it's not a a slow horror movie leading to an amazing pay off instead
it's a very boring movie about a family getting upset and doing typical
family things around that time. I know that sounds dumb but the moment
I seen the first thing causing the family to start their drama I knew
immediately where the film was going and since I knew it was boring the
entire time. If you found this movie exciting at all I would wonder if
you ever learned or studied the salem witch trials because this is a
typical "family reacts to witch activity" Usually for slow movies you
need something to keep you intrigued some mystery or just something
compelling which this film does not have. No intrigue, no mystery, no
horror, no suspense, typical characters. This is kind of how I would
some it up if this were a history channel special film, it would be an
amazing film it would get an 8 out of 10 from me, however it is a
Hollywood title playing in theaters. I payed a lot of money for my
siblings and I to watch a higher quality history channel salem witch
trials movie. In my opinion there are much better slower horror movies,
here are some examples-Kill List -I Saw The Devil -Gone Girl -Seven I know those last two
aren't exactly horror or really "slow" but they are not fast either and
much, much more worth your time then The Witch.

******
25 February 2016
6
I came into this film with high expectations. Im not sure why, but i
did, i must say i was disappointed. On the plus side the visual style is fantastic, the acting is great and
the "concept" is a good one as well. It builds slowly and does make you
think. The dialogue was great and some moments were a bit creepy. The
story carries itself more like a drama than like a horror, and the main
character does an excellent job at being portrayed as victim/ whatever
else it is she is. My biggest complain comes from the slow build up, it is too slow before
we see any actual horror. I am a big believer in psychological scares,
no need for gore and actual violence to shock and terrify an audience,
however this film did not deliver by slowly dragging itself in a boring
slow paced drama masqueraded as a horror. The film functions more as a period piece, and at times i could not
understand the dialogue. the ending was not clear and to be frank i
noticed multiple opportunities that could have been used to frighten
the viewers but were sorely dismissed. At times the film is misleading and the lack of clarity is what
bothered me most. Its as if the entire film is building up to this dark
reveal that ends up a mere shade of pale grey. The film is good and deserves to be seen, not as a horror but as a
drama. If you're looking for scares look elsewhere, if you're a fan of
film then you'll enjoy the cinematography and eerie chilly visuals.
Thats about it. Final Grade, C+

******
25 February 2016
5
Positives:1. The music is great (builds tension)2. The atmosphere is used to dramatic effect3. The acting from the entire main family was phenomenal4. I felt dread while watching this movie5. The tone and pace of this movie keeps you engaged with the familyNegatives:1. I couldn't understand what the family was saying half of the time2. When people died, I didn't really care3. This movie is not scary (I only felt tension when the music kicked
in) (Please stop promoting this as a horror movie) (This is clearly a
period piece about a fu*ked up family)4. This movie should have been just a straight and narrow psychological
feast without all of the supernatural fluff5. The ending to this movie is very bad, so I don't give a fu*k about
this movieOverall, this movie had some amazing things going for it, but it just
wasn't that engaging for me. I didn't care who lived or who died in
this movie; I was partially bored throughout this movie, I just didn't
really care.Final Grade: C

******
20 February 2016
10
The Witch, much like films like Kubrick's The Shining or Polanski's
Rosemary's Baby just makes the viewer feel uneasy and nerved right from
the start. A slow-burning, subtle and reserved experience that lets you
resonate with the characters and really experience the unraveling of
their family unit. What really makes this film special is that there's
so many things that it could've very easily done wrong, but handled
every aspect with class, tact and respect. The term 'Scary' means
something different for everybody, so deeming this film as "un-scary"
does not mean a thing, I will say though that this film goes beyond
just 'being scary', it's not that kind of film. It's much more
unsettling and unnerving, getting under your skin rather than being
overtly frightening or gory. Frights last a moment, but the ability to
not only get under you skin, but linger there is a mark of a truly
great horror film. It's a story about losing faith, it's a story about guilt and how those
things can tear a family apart. For those wanting a 'fire and
brimstone' monster feature, you'll be sorely disappointed. This film is
much more in the vein of masters like Stanley Kubrick, Ingmar Bergman
with even a touch of Andrei Tarkovsky. It's amazingly and intimately
well crafted and shot, scored, acted and researched. It takes its time
to tell the characters' stories, but does so with a strange,
otherworldly and totally supernatural feel. It's just as effective as
an intense drama as it is a horror film. This is the kind of horror
film that will be discussed for years to come, and only comes around
once in a blue moon. I don't want to give away anything in this review, but I will say this:
For those that really enjoy the art of film, storytelling, character
building and the craft in general, believe the hype. It's excellent. But for those expecting a gory and fun, cartoonishly-satanist and
jump-scare littered monster flick, stay away and don't ruin it for the
others trying to enjoy their theater-going experience. You'll end up
not enjoying it or will find it to be a tedious and boring watch. Even
though at a trim 90 minutes, if you find it boring, you have no
attention span whatsoever, but that's besides the point. To cap it off, this is the kind of Horror film I'm always waiting for,
especially considering the droves of wanton garbage that flood the
theaters week after week, and after looking forward to the film for
nearly a year and a half, I'm glad to say that it delivered on all
fronts. It's as flawless of a film as you can get, and for this to be
Eggers' debut feature, he's in for a hell of a career.

******
28 February 2016
1
I have watched a lot of horror movies in my time but. I could make a
better movie with my phone and the kids from down the street. The
acting was horrible and to be honest the only part that was scary was
the preview for the conjuring 2. Biggest waste of money a studio every
spent to make a movie. This movie wouldn't scare my 2 year old. DO NOT
WASTE YOUR HARD EARNED MONEY ON THIS MOVIE. IT LOOKS LIKE IT COST $10
TO MAKE IT. I would recommend to go watch any other movie that is
playing in the theater. I hate to see people waste their hard earned
money on this movie. My wife is a huge horror movie fan and 30 mins in
she wanted to leave lol.

******
24 February 2016
3
Where's the horror? This movie had all of elements you would want in a
great horror movie, except there was no horror. The music was chilling.
The cinematography was strong in most cases, though it was hard to
distinguish exactly what you were looking at. The dialogue could use
subtitles, as these accents, whether fake or real, are uttered in such
a glib manner that you'll have a tough time understanding. Oh, and the
prayers. Someone is saying a prayer every five minutes in this movie. I
thought I was at a Jimmy Swaggart prayer-a-thon. But that's not the
biggest problem. This movie sets you up with suspense, chilling music,
and some interesting imagery, AND DOES ABSOLUTELY NOTHING WITH IT.
Think of this as M. Night's worst movie except with no attempt to scare
you. Watch it on NetFlix....not even the tiniest bit scary.

******
18 February 2016
5
This New England folktale shows the difficulty of settling a new land,
the delusion of blind devotion, and the troubles of an isolated youth.
The movie moves slow with brief disturbing scenes to bring the viewer
into the plot but overall amounts to a more confusion than actual
horror. There are certainly things throughout that will leave viewers
cringing in their seats, or on the couch since this film seems to have
trouble showing in all theaters and may be more of a rental. The horror
is certainly there and the Writer/Director Robert Eggers does plenty to
ratchet up the tension but falls short of a complete story.With only a family in the midst of the horror, the characters are a
majority of kids with the two parents being Game of Thrones alumni.
Kate Dickie plays the mother Katherine who slowly devolves into
insanity as her family is slowly picked off by malevolent forces. Ralph
Ineson plays the father whose faith is out of control. His deep
croaking voice delivers dialogue in such a profound way and worked
perfectly in this haunting setting.CHECK OUT MORE OF THIS REVIEW AND OTHERS AT swilliky.com

******
21 February 2016
2
I went to see The Witch based on the intriguing previews, plus the high
user and critic ratings on IMDb. What did anyone find the least bit
redeeming in this wretched film?Based on the previews I was expecting a frightening, exciting, tense
movie about, oh I don't know, a witch!?!? Instead I was subjected to 90
minutes of a family's extreme religious superstition tearing them
apart. OK, that's not necessarily bad for subject matter, but since
everyone speaks in different accents and variations of 17th century
English (ye, thee, thou, whilst, etc.) at wildly varying volume levels,
I probably missed a good 40-50% of what was said. But what upset me the most was how the film existed in the world of
plausibility for the majority of the time and then suddenly shifted
into fantasy and the supernatural. Far too many WTF moments that I
would have to spoil to enumerate. But just when you think you are
dealing with the effects of religious extremism and how it can poison a
person's mind, suddenly you get slammed with images of pure folklore
fantasy and all you can do is scratch your head and wonder what the
heck is going on. It's been a long time since a film has made me want
to walk out in disgust.I give The Witch two stars because of the acting performances. The cast
had some horrible material to work with but they did a wonderful job of
expressing their emotions, fears and doubts about each other's faith.
Somehow they spoke the lines they were given effectively as well. In
the end they couldn't rise above the material, though, including the
fact that like so many movies today, the filmmakers had no idea how or
when the story should come to an end.

******
21 February 2016
2
Were the witch sold as a period drama with creepy elements I might have
looked more kindly upon it. But since it was sold as "the most
terrifying film of the year" all I found was disappointment. The film
throws a scary scene featuring "The Witch" at us in the first ten
minutes but after that it builds(if you can call it that)
unsuccessfully for over an hour. the first thirty minutes the audience
accepts as necessary to build suspense and flesh out the characters but
one boring scene after the next has the people bored and unamused. Now
keep in mind I'm not the kind of person who requires instant
gratification in film. The babadook is my favourite horror film in
years. The Witch is not that film. Several times we expect something
scary to finally happen only to be greeted by a rabbit. This film felt
like it was edited in the 70s and is choppy at best. It also ends more
times than LOTR with each fade to black making us hope that it's
finally over. This film is well acted but that's about it. It's
hilariously unscary.

******
18 February 2016
6
Greetings again from the darkness. If your own nightmares have become
less frequent, and you find yourself able to sleep peacefully through
the night, writer/director Robert Eggers' first feature film will
likely fix that. Based in 1630 New England  a full 60 years prior to
the Salem witch trials  much of the story and dialogue is based on
actual historical documents corresponding to the fears of that era. It
would be a mistake to head into this one thinking it's going to having
you covering your eyes or springing from your seat  it's better
described as unsettling and disquieting.Religious fanaticism plays a key role here, and is actually behind a
Puritan family being exiled from the community. They set up a home and
farm on the edge of an ominous, heavily-wooded forest  and things
start to go wrong. William (Ralph Ineson) and Katherine (Kate Dickie)
are stern and stoic parental units to coming-of-age teenager Thomasin
(Anya Taylor-Joy), her younger brother Caleb (Harvey Scrimshaw), two
spoiled and annoying twins Mercy (Ellie Granger) and Jonas (Lucas
Dawson), and a new born named Samuel.This is a slow-burn psychological horror film and it never relies on
cheap jump-scares. Instead the eerie atmosphere, lurking Satanic evil,
and unraveling of the family as they search for answers, all combine
for a level of creep that's not often seen on screen. Adding to our
pre-conceived notion that things rarely end well for closed-mind
religious zealots is the unsettling use of Old World English  it takes
some time to adjust your ears.Most of director Eggers' background is in short films with an emphasis
on Production Design and Costume Design. It's interesting to note the
gradual decline of lighting as the movie progresses  most notably on
the opening and closing shots of daughter Thomasin, who faces the most
backlash as a suspected (by her family) witch.This was a time when people prayed for food and for God to have mercy 
and to explain the unexplainable. No amount of praying can make sense
of the titular witch (Bathsheba Garnett), or the family's goat Black
Phillip (voiced by Wahab Chaudhry), or an evil bunny that would make
Monty Python proud. The dingo taking their baby might actually be a
preferred explanation.Eggers won the Sundance Award for a Director in Drama, and the film was
nominated for a Grand Jury Prize. Mark Korven's score is unique and the
perfect complement to the on screen happenings of this poor family. The
film stays true to the time period, which of itself, feels like a
parallel universe unfamiliar to most of us these days. Young actors
Anya Taylor-Joy and Harvey Scrimshaw are real finds, and director
Eggers will have a built-in and well-deserved audience for his next
outing.

******
20 February 2016
2
While there was one scene, early on in the film, of incredible terror,
the balance of the film was entirely predictable, difficult
artistically, and thematically set us back nearly 500 years in
vilifying women and witches/ wiccans. While true to the hysterics of
the time over anything the recent English immigrants could not
understand and therefore labeled as evil, (the dense woods, disobedient
women, breasts, etc.) artistically this film is a mess. Let's start
with the overuse of blank screens for long seconds (minutes?) of time.
This may have been intended to build suspense, especially with the use
of fraught vocal music in the soundtrack, but it is used far too often,
and the screen is kept blank too long, followed by- nothing! Apparently
in this film, it's the equivalent of dropping a screen on stage while
the actors change places or costumes. It could have been employed once
or twice to great effect if the blank screen didn't last as long, (the
viewer on my left mumbled "WTF?!" at the second or third use of this)
and if it was followed by a surprise or shock to the viewer. Then
there's the dialogue: approximately 25% of it, especially early in the
film, is indecipherable and at different volumes. The elder son, Caleb,
has a different (Cockney) accent than the rest of the family. OK, the
Puritans were creepy in their singular devotion to The Bible, and
living in and adapting to the apparently always dreary New England was
a bit much for their imaginations. But why must women be portrayed
always as The Shrew, The Temptress, or the Agent of Satan? I give this
film 2 stars for its novel attempt to depict the life of early Puritan
settlers in their uneducated, superstitious and hysterical ways.
Otherwise, in all, I was mightily disappointed.

******
13 March 2016
8
What a film. I generally don't like horror movies because I get annoyed
by the standard Hollywood formula. It's refreshing to see something
that is disturbingly all kinds of wrong.The Witch is not a jump-out-of-your-seat-in-terror-brown-your-pants
horror film but what makes this film especially unnerving is that it
feels real and plausible. Indeed, this story is inspired by a series of
historical accounts. The story begins with a family in the new frontier of the US in the
1630s getting banished from their township and their attempts to create
a new life by the edge of a forest. Nothing else need be said. Just
watch and squirm and be prepared to look away. There are some truly
unsettling moments.I can tolerate all sorts of weird and freaky stuff with my movie
watching habits, but the Witch had me rattled and I've not quite
figured out why or how. The entire cast was amazing - the guy from the
Office who plays Chris the sleazeball, that creepy Lysa Arryn from Game
of Thrones, all four children, led by striking newcomer Anya Taylor-Joy
who was impressive as Thomasin, the eldest sibling. The eerie
soundtrack and the use of shadows in the cinematography were also very
effective. The manner in which this was filmed places the viewers in
the midst of the family's struggles making us helpless voyeurs and at
times maybe complicit... I'll stop right here.This is exactly how horror films should be done. It is one of the best
horror films I've seen in a loooooong time. Very promising feature
debut by director Robert Eggers. Here's looking forward to see how he
translates Nosferatu as his new project. Really impressive. Go see it.

******
12 March 2016
6
Anytime someone says something like "cinema as art", you know it's a
rubbish film.The Witch is well shot, well acted, poorly written and poorly directed.
The cinematography is good. The aspect ratio is unusual, but works
well.The acting is good, and I liked the authentic-sounding dialogue,
although it got a little talky at times.**** SPOILERS ****It's poorly written & directed. There's an real lack of tension. The
film starts with a bang - a witch steals and kills a child - and
then... nothing. The witch is almost completely absent from the rest of
the film til the end. There's a rabbit and a goat that seem to be
possessed, but that's all. The film would have worked much, much better
if the witch was a constant presence, even if only half-seen.Without that, the film just plods along. After such a dramatic start,
it gets dull and slow. It's a real shame, since there's a lot of good
things going on. The problem is that there is no tension. Certainly
strange things happen, but the director is unable to sustain any
tension through it.

******
6 March 2016
5
The acting will bowl you over. The authenticity immerses you in 17th
century New England. But wait! Someone forgot the coherent plot! Oh
well.I saw a short with the writer-director saying he stocked up on witch
stories from early New England. I had a similar idea years ago, but did
not have the confidence to follow through. This guy did it, or so I
thought. He has excellent backing. Superb support. My expectations ran
high. Bust! I was very disappointed. But the good news is I can still do (with my
nephew's genius) well what he set out to do and failed.

******
6 March 2016
5
The Witch manages to waste some of the best acting and cinematography
seen in a horror movie. The entire cast is outstanding and truly
convincing in their roles, even the young children. The film is
directed, from a technical perspective, in superb fashion as the
audience cannot help but be absorbed into its darkness and desperation.
The problem is that The Witch spends its entire run time setting up for
a climax that doesn't really come. The audience is left hanging with no
perspective. The ending is so weak that it renders everything that
happened earlier as irrelevant. This is primarily because the film
takes the audience exactly where we thought it was taking us from the
beginning. There are no surprises, no real twists and the whole package
is just a well-produced disappointment.

******
1 March 2016
4
To be cautious, let me start with SPOILERS ARE INCLUDED. That said:I will preface by saying I wanted to see this movie, and I wanted to
like it. Historical horror has worked well with me in the past. The
premise holds together as a great send-off. A family rejected by their
community, forced to eke out an existence at the border of an ominous
wood, fueled by zealotry and potentially paranoia. What the film does right: It is beautifully shot. It gives a great
atmosphere of starkness, and one can palpably sense what sort of
desperation could occur. The lighting of the scenes, with its low glow
and candlelit imagery reinforces this. The sound works well with this
(most of the time), and the actors manage to deliver some effective
scenes, two in particular standing out. When a child first disappears, when a daughter confronts her father,
these scenes by themselves read very well, if they don't connect well
with each other. But herein lies the fundamental problem with this
movie. It doesn't tell a story, at least not as a whole. As you watch the movie, scene to scene, it seems more like a series of
unconnected or at best very loosely connected vignettes than a story.
In a different sort of film, that may have been all right as well,
except this is a film that takes a singular point of view with this one
family. At first, it looks like it will be a story of seeking a lost
sibling, then a story of paranoia, then a story of supernatural witches
picking off the family, then a potential story of punishment for
indecent thoughts as a sin, then a story of child abuse pushing a
character to enact vengeance on her family, and so on and so forth. The
longer you watch it, the more you are waiting for the moment for the
plot to turn, for the story, or whatever message the film is trying to
put forth, to present itself. Except it never does. The writing at the
end of the film pretty much confirms it, as the film reveals it was
based on numerous separate witchcraft stories of the era. It doesn't
tell a story because it has no one story to tell. Following its
anticlimactic scenes, you are left with an ending that is as
unsatisfying as it is nonsensical, and numerous holes in both the story
and plot. The titular witch is never really identified, whether it is an old hag,
a younger counterpart, one of the main characters, or if any of these
are the same person or not. . .and honestly, leaving the theatre I am
not sure I cared. "Evil animals" switch likewise, from rabbits to birds
to goats, with no specific internal logic or reason presented. Plot
points are developed and just as quickly abandoned seeking the next
"scare", but the scare never comes. And honestly, it is a shame. For a
film with such great potential, a very worthy theme, beautiful shots,
good sound, even a solid cast. . .I left never having any desire to see
it again.Two out of five stars, being generous, and that is mostly for the cast
doing the best they could with little, and for the talented
cinematography and lighting/sound designs.

******
29 February 2016
4
I went to see this with my fiancé based on IMDb reviews and the trailer
and was extremely disappointed with this film. There are some good and
great aspects to this movie but overall it came up very short. The
writing, acting, cinematography were phenomenal but this was not enough
to make this a good movie. I do not want to get too specific but I can
say that the ending was terrible, the movie was not scary in anyway,
and despite a great cast this movie just fails to deliver. The whole
movie theater left and not a single person had anything positive to say
. I would suggest waiting until this movie is released on DVD or can be
streamed to watch it, it is not worth the cost of admission.

******
28 February 2016
4
Did I watch the same movie as everyone else? This was by far one of the
worst movie's that I have ever seen, which is a shame because I love
scary movies. I gave it a four because it was creative (seemed
realistic, good imagery, scenery) and the acting was excellent. The
actors were very talented and did an amazing job. However, this movie
was far from scary. I mean some of the "scares" were foolish and came
across as funny. Had the audience hysterically laughing. I was
expecting something much more terrifying. Plus there were some
important pieces missing to the plot. They could have provided much
more details about the characters. Very upsetting overall.

******
28 February 2016
5
I have always preferred horror movies based around tension rather than
gore or jump scares. When I first saw a trailer for The Witch it seemed
like the perfect horror movie for me. The time period and setting are
even enough to bring chills just thinking about it but I am sad to say
that these are probably among the best features of this movie. The
Witch fails in so many ways that I am having trouble remembering the
few things in which it succeeds, and those few things are not nearly
enough to save this disaster.I don't want to make this review a list of things I hated about the
movie followed by praise for Anya Taylor-Joy so I will begin with her
performance. Really the only highlight of the movie, Anya Taylor-Joy
brought the fear out of not only the terrible things happening, but
also the feeling of being trapped as she was. Her character was the
only one who I really felt for through the movie as all of the other
characters were dis likable for the most part.I guess I will start with the story and whatnot since that is probably
my biggest complaint. The story goes nowhere. The plot seems to be a
series of boring farm chores and deep prayer scattered with a few
moments of fear. There was no sort of effort to make the story
circular, or to really even bring many of the things brought up in the
beginning to a satisfying conclusion. The old saying of "Don't show a
gun in the first act if you aren't going to use it in the third" is
disturbingly broken here. The worst part about the story is that it is
not even innovative. The normal worn out horror genre format is here
with the first hour of the movie being a crawl with a brief moment is
horror splashed in. Then the last half hour aims to shock and disturb
leaving the last 15 minutes for the real scares. The Witch does all of
this poorly as none of the moments of tension hit nearly as hard as
they think and the overall payoff is not clever or satisfying.The direction of the movie is filled with close up reaction shots that
most of the time amount to nothing. The camera will show a character
horrified and then when the viewer finally gets to see what is so
interesting it always ends up disappointing. There were absolutely no
shots in this movie that were really impressive. The look of the movie
actually was also impressive, but when juxtaposed with basic camera
placement and movement it just offsets each other.Good horror movies are a dime a dozen these days, but The Witch seemed
like it had a good understanding of how to make a good one. Again the
time period and subject are a wealth of entertainment for this genre
but the makers of this movie got lost somewhere along the way. I would
not recommend this to anyone other than people who really like
horror/thriller movies just to let them have an opinion. In my opinion
this one is an easy pass.

******
27 February 2016
4
Usually the amount of patrons that leave a theater in the middle of a
showing is a accurate representation of a films worth. Four people did
so at the 7pm showing of Robert Eggers' "The Witch" and I can't really
blame them. The movie itself is well acted and the interaction between
the characters is believable. Couple that with the excellent sets and
costumes, period anarchism's and speech and you can actually believe
that this is how 17th century Calvinists would of lived. However at no
time did I feel frightened or unsettled by what was happening on
screen. More than once myself and the majority of the audience actually
laughs out loud or groaned in embarrassment at a sequence that was
clearly intended to produce frights. In fact it is my opinion that this
would of been a much better film if stripped of all supernatural
elements and presented as merely a family drama that dealt with the
issues of isolationism, mistrust and the effects of pride and religious
fanaticism on the wellbeing of a colonial family. If that were the case
I would of rated it far higher. As it is however, presented as a horror
movie, I give this film 4 stars out of ten.

******
27 February 2016
4
I am puzzled at all the reviews claiming this movie is the "next big
thing." I love TV shows/films about the Salem Witch Trials, and I was excited
to see this one. I have to commend the director for keeping the
dialogue close to what it would've been like in the respective time
period. However, the lines were mumbled at times and were
undecipherable.Aesthetically, it was a nice movie with great cinematography and a
notable score. The problem is in the storyline. There is no tangible
plot or created suspense. The relationship between the characters and
the audience is nonexistent. I wouldn't waste your money in the theater on this one.

******
27 February 2016
9
The new indie-horror The Witch will cause one of the following two
reactions in anyone brave enough to face it: 1) to run away as far and
as fast as possible from the residuals of nightmare fuel; or 2) to dive
in deeper, seeking out the bleak origins and intense terrors underlying
its cold surface. Either reaction would be legitimate, as its
unsettling visuals and themes are as enveloping as they are
hard-to-stomach. Less a forceful, shocking horror than an atmospheric
vision of fear, these two disparate effects point to the same truth:
The Witch is an overwhelming experience of sheer terror. Set in 17th
century New England, teenager Thomasin and her family are banished from
their paranoid town and forced to make a life of their own. As
witchcraft and black magic begin to make their way out of the
neighboring woods and into the family's life, things go from bad to
worse. Newcomer Eggers directs with such fervency for authenticity, it
feels like he time-traveled to capture this unique era for horror. His
characters carry all the affectations you expect of the period
(old-fashioned English, enclosed communities), but more importantly,
each member of the small cast is layered with empathy and dark
humanity. Those characters, coupled with the dreary beauty of the
visuals and the mesmerizing score, give us a clear first-look at a
fearless talent. Eggers not only has a handle on the surface level
aesthetics, but dives into some deep wells of thought, like religion
vs. spirituality and the very notion of innocence. Thematically
propulsive, visually rich, and disarmingly demented, The Witch casts a
spell you can't learn even at Hogwarts.

******
27 February 2016
9
THE VVITCH (2016) A Review by JP February 27, 2016 9 Evil Goats (out of
10)Since I've caught half-hate over my love of "The Babadook", bear in
mind I enter each film (particularly horror), with a clean slate, an
open mind, and a willingness to be scared. More often than not, I leave
disappointed. That was not the case with this indie epic horror film
that exudes with Kubrickesque qualities, most eloquently in the
cinematography & music. I heard haunting hymns from "The Shining" while
my partner heard "2001: A Space Odyssey". In every single frame, a
composition by which a photography class could be taught. The lighting
was exceptional and imbibed the overall mood of dread that amassed
throughout an expertly-paced 90-minute runtime. Truly disturbing
situations arise. Though tastefully done, the imagery is sure to
sustain long after leaving the theater. I could feel the anxiety from
the handful of others in the theater with us. I could not tell if they
were impatient by the 10-15 extra seconds that would typically be cut
from modern forms of horror or the unsettling images just out of sight
but definitely not out of mind. Once the 10 distributor logos cleared
the screen (which gave me a deeper appreciation from the get-go the
many trials this gem had to traverse in order to craft success), much
like my favorite Kubrick picks, my eyes would not dare leave the
screen. This dark historical piece, genuinely creepy to the point of
traumatizing, actually scary when the time was right, and acted with a
maturity void from so many films nowadays, especially child actors.
Summarized credit where it is duly-earned, in order of noteworthiness
(cast first): Anya Taylor-Joy, Harvey Scrimshaw, Ralph Ineson, Katie
Dickie, (& crew) composer Mark Korven, Jarin Blaschke's Oscar-worthy
eye for the light, also kudos to the dozen+ producers, including Chris
Columbus (Home Alone, Harry Potters 1 & 2), and writer/director Robert
Eggers. What a memorable, nightmarish cinematic experience!

******
26 February 2016
9
Legitimately terrifying horror film set in 1630s. A family banished
from regular society makes their humble home at the edge of the deep
woods. They are on the brink of starvation, with their decimated crop,
but they have more immediate problems when their youngest baby is
kidnapped by something from the woods. The remaining children (a
teenage girl (played by the terrific Anya Taylor-Joy), a slightly
younger teen boy, and two creepy twins who seem to be best friends with
their pet goat) are threatened by their parents' grief and religious
fervor (the parents are well played by Ralph Ineson and Kate Dickie).
First off, the film is just gorgeous to look at. Eggers has done
marvels with the details of this film, and based the period-appropriate
dialogue on actual writings of the time. I also have to thank any
director making a film like this who's obviously seen and loved
Benjamin Christensen's Haxan. I am not 100% sure what I feel about the
ending of the film - it's either a bit too little or a bit too much.
It's most certainly one of the best horror films of recent years.

******
24 February 2016
7
This movie was good but predictable and not scary. I knew within the
first 20/30 minutes that the girl was going to become another "witch".
It was very obvious when her brother and parents both hinted at her
becoming an adult (obvious attention paid to her breasts). Everyone
knows that a witch becomes most powerful when she reaches puberty in
folktales.. I mean why don't you smack us over the head with it...Next thing is that it's not scary like at all... I was really hoping
for a good fright and was disappointed...All in all, the movie was good. Cinematography was great and the story
line was well developed and focused. That being said it was predictable
and almost seemed more like a story about a young soon-to-be witch than
anything else - was that the point of this? Maybe it was... in which
case well done.

******
24 February 2016
7
This movie is very well made, with some great performances - notably
Kate Dickie as the wife/mother. She is very fitting to this role as was
the male lead. What I loved: Its portrayal of the 1600's puritanical thinking; strong
ties to religion and therefore the devil, willingness to see the devil
in anything that went wrong. The desperation of trying to hold on to
your family and way of life. The performances of the actors were
tremendous and very believable. The mother/ daughter relationship was
well done - the daughter looking for her mother's acceptance and
approval, the Mother always at odds with her. The younger siblings that
were as annoying as today's younger siblings. The bond between the
siblings. The setting, so lonely and isolated. The animal scenes, i
don't want to spoil anything so i won't say more. The building
desperation over grief, fear, threat of starvation. The ending - loved
this. The twins were creepy! And I loved that I had no idea if there
really was a witch, and if there was, who was it.What I didn't like: What season was it in New England that there are no
leaves on the trees yet the weather seemed temperate? I'm thinking
November, but they must have been some really hardy people. They never
once seemed cold or were tending a fire. Whereas a movie like The
Revenant literally made me feel cold throughout, this one seemed to be
filmed during an Indian Summer. The music - I liked parts, but hated
how the music would rise and get louder only to simply end in literally
nothing significant. It would simply change to a black screen and then
a new setting. While the music was exotic, it failed to match the tempo
of the scenes. The dialogue was hard to hear and at time I could not
make out what was being said because of both the accent and the old
style language.I would definitely recommend seeing this movie - but I do think that it
could wait until it is available on demand.

******
22 February 2016
9
The VVitch is a movie written and directed by Robert Eggers. It stars
Anya Taylor-Joy, Ralph Ineson, Kate Dickie, and Harvey Scrimshaw, along
with Ellie Grainger and Lucas Dawson.A family in 1630s New England is torn apart by the forces of
witchcraft, black magic and possession.The VVitch is a 'horror movie' like no other. It manifests itself
inside the viewer creating a genuine feeling of dread and anxiety as it
becomes more and more apparent how inescapable the situation truly is.
This dread and anxiety is reflected onto the silver screen as the
characters understand their predicament slightly later than the
audience.Though I did thoroughly enjoy The VVitch, I can definitely a large
number of people hate it as everything about it seems so damn
impenetrable. This is mainly due to the quaint setting and the fact
that this movie isn't a true horror movie or even thriller. What it is,
is a rich period piece that finds its depth in its heady yet poignant
themes.Writer, Robert Eggers, understands the kind of movie he desires to make
and does it with much gusto. He wanted to design a heated family drama
under the masquerade of a supernatural thriller. This is no easy task
as Eggers makes the active choice to keep the characters in the dark,
while feeding the audience provocative twists on the age old story.
This works quite well in constructing a tense and morbidly dark
atmosphere that succeeds at making the viewer feel helpless with no
real reason why. Emphasizing build up instead of cheap results and firm
grasps on familial ties, paranoia, extremest mindset, the script of The
VVitch is deeply disturbing yet pristine in its construction and
subtext. Though tedious for some, and a joy for others, one thing is
universal in both parties: the distaste seemingly tidy conclusion. For
a movie that packs so much creative bite, an ending that boasts some
interesting twist or an open ended yet arguably conclusive was
definitely necessary. Eggers decides to go in a different, more
definitive, end. This is frustrating since on first glance it seems too
simplistic for a movie that is anything but. This is a complete fallacy
as the straight forward, strict ending demonstrates the amount of
nuance behind the main character in surprising and dour ways.The main character, Thomasin, is brought to life with full autonomy by
Anya Taylor-Joy, who as a first time actress, delivered a surprisingly
seasoned performance. She is assisted by Ralph Ineson who gives an
equally dedicated performance. Perhaps the biggest surprise for me was
Harvey Scrimshaw progressively improving performance, that really stole
a handful of crucial scenes almost seamlessly.The direction in this movie was also surprisingly as Eggers makes some
very smart calls as he uses exaggerated pans, wide shots, and moving
shots as he truly brings out the setting while building the atmosphere,
however this does drastically slow downs the pace which somewhat works
against the progress made. He also uses an abundant compelling amount
of imagery resembling fairy tales like Red Riding Hood and the Rabbit
from Alice in Wonderland, which in turn stimulates childhood fears and
subverts them. This is matched by the dreary yet realized
cinematography and the ominous score. The VVitch is a Unsettling masterwork of horror cinema that's
brilliance is realized by his great ambitions. The VVitch gets an A or
a 9/10.

******
22 February 2016
10
The Witch is one film that chills you to the bone and will warp your
mind while you watch in fear, confusion, and anxiety. There hasn't been
a horror film like this in a very long time. Any horror buff will agree
that this film is a valuable gem in an underestimated genre. I had very
high expectations on this film before seeing it, and it bargains much
more than I expected, in which is highly rare nowadays.The film takes place many years before the Salem Witch trials and it
starts off with a Puritan family leaving a plantation, due to
disagreement beliefs. They find good size piece of land that is outside
of a dark forest and built themselves a cabin and a farm. Once their
newborn baby disappeared under the care of the post- adolescent
daughter named Thomasin, things go downhill from there for the family.
Crops of corn go bad, no luck on hunting food, and an ongoing grudge
between Thomasin and her mother Katherine. Things get much worse when
they sense evil is coming from the forest and the only thing that can
save them are prayers and faith. But, for how long?The first thing that brought to my attention is the dialogue. It is an
awesome idea that director and writer, Robert Eggers,had wrote it and
execute it this way. It feels like we're seeing a prequel of the
Crucible (I never saw the movie, but I've read the book. Unsure if the
Winona Ryder film followed the original writing). Next, the atmosphere
felt very authentic. You can sense absolute no civilization around the
family and the cool, damp, New England weather, even though it was
filmed in Canada. Third, the acting is tremendous! Nothing was campy,
cheesy, or off. They felt like legit pilgrims on the screen. The
father, played by Ralph Ineson, is my personal favorite character in
the movie. It felt like I was watching a young Donald Sutherland. And
last, but not least, the fear factor. It's intense. This film shows no
mercy to the victims and to the viewers. There aren't that many casual
jump-scares like in your everyday horror flicks, but just gives you a
psychological fear that makes you highly uncomfortable. The fear just
gradually builds up throughout the plot rather than spurts of scares
here and there. It feels like a nightmare that you can't wake up from.
After watching the movie, it makes you just speechless.If you a huge horror fan that wants something completely fresh without
the cliché, The Witch is for you. After you watch it, you can't stop
talking about it. It's that good. Robert Eggers did such a fantastic
job and will be a household name of horror such as Stephen King, George
A. Romero, Guillermo del Toro and Sam Raimi. this maybe too soon say
this because we're in February, but I believe that this is the best
horror movie of the year. I don't know if any upcoming horror films
that'll be releasing this year can top The Witch.

******
22 February 2016
8
I am very hesitant to go see horror films in the theaters because most
of the time they only provide the cheap thrills of jump scares and do
not really have any actual "horror" to them and I always leave the
theater feeling cheated. I took a gamble with The Witch and boy oh boy
I was not disappointed. The combination of the authentic feel of
colonial New England, the devout God fearing family, the foreboding
woods, the bone chilling musical score, the brief glimpses of the
actual witch and chaos she creates, all of it works so perfectly
together.Now I would not recommend this movie to everyone. The tension and
horror slowly builds for over an hour until the final act so if you are
impatient and want a beginning to end nonstop horror ride then you will
be disappointed. The movie starts out quickly with the abduction of the
baby Samuel (along with a VERY disturbing scene that shows you the
extreme evil the family is facing) but then kind of dials back as the
family dismisses his disappearance as an act of a wolf. Even though it
is pretty slow in the middle the cinematographic shots and music keep
you gripping your armrests throughout the whole movie wondering when
the next time something sinister might happen.I wasn't 100% happy with the ending. It seemed pretty cool and
different and might work for some people but it seemed a tad bit
gimmicky to me which is a shame since the movie avoided such gimmicks
for the ENTIRE movie until the last 5-10 minutes. That being said I
don't know how else the movie could have ended but I guess that's why
I'm not a screenwriter! Overall I was very pleased with the movie and
will add this to my list of annual pre-Halloween movies to watch. A
good horror flick will leave you feeling uneasy and replaying scenes in
your head for the next few days. It will also leave you sitting in the
movie theater thinking "WHAT THE #%&@ DID I JUST WATCH?!" The Witch did
all of this for me and I will most likely be heading back to the
theater to watch it again!

******
20 February 2016
7
One of the best aspects about horror movies is their unbridled
creativity. Large studios have made it their business to corner the
market on large tent-pole blockbusters, goofy comedies and
stereotypical biographical dramas. There are only so many ways to make
an audience laugh or manipulate them into tears; there are virtually
unlimited ways to disturb them. For that reason horror lives largely in
the realm of independent cinema where any young person with a dream and
a vision can become the next Sam Raimi or Peter Jackson. Robert Eggers,
director of The Witch seems to be aiming even higher.The Witch opens with William (Ineson) and his family leaving a Puritan
plantation in New World, New England. Banished from the safety of the
plantation, the family builds a humble cottage near the woods and
struggle to make an ample harvest for the winter. Katherine (Dickie),
William's wife fears death while the children begin to fear something
much more nefarious hiding in the woods. This fear is planted when the
youngest of the children, the infant Samuel is taken while in the care
of the eldest daughter Thomasin (Taylor-Joy). After a series of
incidences and misfortunes, the family begins to suspect Thomasin has
dabbled in witchcraft.Robert Eggers drains the film of all of the predictable jump-scares and
needing stock characters that populate most horror films, and instead
loads his story with elaborate period detail and an overwhelming sense
of dread. Each tableau masterfully evokes the stunning compositional
techniques of Andrei Tarkovsky and to a lesser extent Carl Theodor
Dreyer. His wide shots are alienating and contemplating while his
closeups are symmetrical and solemn. Only the editing of Louise Ford
and crew hints at a modern sensibility, everything else is remarkably
old-school. Most audiences accustomed to the average schlock-horror may
find this film far too pensive to endure. Especially given the fact
everyone speaks appropriately for the time period.This is a shame too, because when this slow-boiling fright reaches its
climax the pace only adds to the horror and shock. The constrained
William and his family become victims of hysteria constantly looking
for the grace of God when there is only deceit, hypocrisy, fear and the
woods. Every single cast member is uncommonly committed to this film.
Every once in a while there comes a film that graces us with one
singularly brilliant performance. The Witch rewards us with three stars
in the making; Anya Taylor-Joy, Kate Dickie and Harvey Scrimshaw who
plays Thomasin's younger brother.The Witch joins the recent crop of decent horror films that seep into
the mind, provide interesting characters and make monsters out of
intricate details. The Conjuring (2013), The Babadook (2014), Oculus
(2013) and A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night (2014) all build their
horror on a foundation of dread and suspense instead of butchery and
chaos. This is not to say The Witch isn't bloody; it is. Yet the
primary goal here is not to disgust but to disturb in a way that makes
you leave the theater with an unnerving shiver. If you're feeling brave
and are incensed by the eerie The Witch will certainly leave a strong
impression.

******
20 February 2016
6
(RATING: ☆☆☆ out of 5) THIS FILM IS MILDLY RECOMMENDED. IN BRIEF: The Crucible meets The Shining meets Rosemary's Baby in
Robert Eggers' well- received but wildly overrated debut film.GRADE: C+PLOT SUMMARY: Set in the 1600's, faith lends a shaky hand to a devout
Christian patriarch and his family as they encounter strange
occurrences in a small New England town. Labeled as heretics, the
family is shunned by the community and settles near a dark forest with
talks of witchcraft and other evil forces lurking about.JIM'S REVIEW: While the film is called The Witch, it is its subtitle, A
New England Folktale, that reveals more about writer / director Robert
Eggers' first film. Folktales were originally cautionary tales told to
impressionable children to forewarn them of the dangers in the real
world. The film uses its time and setting most ingeniously, recalling
the religious repression of that period and the mass hysteria
associated with sin and witchcraft in a Puritan village. It has also
garnered the awe of many impressionable critics as well. While this
psychological thriller has some strong and disturbing imagery, it
cannot hide the many illogical twists in the plot that are more evident
after the film reaches its unsatisfying conclusion.One is initially captivated by the story, production values, and acting
as the film tells its tale of a family surviving on its own after being
exiled by the community elders. There are strange satanic goings-on as
they settle into the woods (a bad place to be in most fairy tale lore):
daily fire and brimstone sermons from an arrogant shiftless father,
William (Ralph Ineson), Katherine (Kate Dickie), a cold and hateful
mother who seems more possessed than humanly possible, lustful glances
by a confused son, Caleb (Harvey Scrimshaw), Thomasin (Anya
Taylor-Joy), a pre-pubescent unhappy daughter, two creepy twins
spouting evil talk, and a baby who goes missing. Nothing goes quite
well for these outcasts.The atmosphere is indeed moody and eerie, although the pacing of the
film is in need of some stirring. Eggers is a solid director, and a
talent that shows much promise. He creates a wonderful setting with
much historical accuracy and his penchant for occasional surreal images
with black birds, goats, wild rabbits, and subtle uses of blood to
accentuate the perils surrounding the family are haunting and very
effectively done.The acting is uniformly strong. Mr. Ineson, sporting an anachronistic
21st century six-pack physique that could have tempted many a Puritan,
handles the speechifying astutely and Ms. Dickie brings a sullen and
disagreeable presence to her character, but it is the acting of the two
younger members of the clan, namely Mr. Scrimshaw and Ms. Taylor-Joy
who deliver the emotional connection needed to care about this stoic
family and their creepy dilemmas.Yet, as the story progresses and more and more supernatural things
befall these victims, the leaps of logic become harder to accept. Mr.
Eggers' script ultimately lets down the audience. His flair for visuals
compensates for a lack of cohesiveness in his screenplay. There is also
an over-reliance of heightened sound effects and atonal musical cues
that telegraphs something wicked before it comes this way. Just as folktales are themselves cautionary stories, The Witch may hold
one's interest in its storytelling, but this reviewer must caution any
moviegoer that this well-crafted tale will leave you more bothered or
bewildered than bewitched.Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.comANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com

******
20 February 2016
9
Robert Eggers' first feature film is an astonishing achievement: It's a
Seventeenth Century film. If a 17th Century American colonist had our
technology this is the film he would have made. Everything in it is 17th Century: the characters, the language, the
world view, the life, the clothing, the props, the lighting, the faith. Mainly the world view. There is no sign of modern knowledge, science or
medicine within the film. The only modern understanding is what some
members of the audience may bring to it. Not anyone from the
Republican/Tory Right, though  it's their knowledge and belief the
film depicts in its total fidelity to the 17th Century. That, of
course, is why the film was made today. Our current political debate
makes Puritan religion a perfect emblem of contemporary pre-
Enlightenment America. The film reminds us that America's putative independence remained
rooted in religiosity. When the constitution deliberately separated the
state from religion its intention was not to privilege any one religion
over the others, not to free the land from all religion. In God they
still trusted but they didn't want to advantage any one god or path.
This the ultra-Christian modern demagogues have self-servingly
forgotten.The religiosity smacks through the opening scene. A Puritan court 
black and white in its religious morality and duds  banishes a family
from the plantation because the father has been even more religious and
demanding than they are. The banished William and Katherine, with their five children, carve out
a homestead in the wilderness. At first they seem the model of
self-reliance. But when things go wrong, when they make mistakes, when
nature proves noncompliant, they can only blame the devil and his
spawn. That's why we have religion: to blame the devil for our failures
and to court God with our arrogant humility. Because this is a 17th Century film we watch the witch ritually abuse
the stolen infant, we see the siren tempt son Caleb and choke him on
the forbidden fruit (a desiccated Delicious), and we hear the witch
descend in the wind to kill the goats and carry off the twins. What in
a modern film would be supernatural horror in this 17th Century world
is nature. What begins in nature ends in supernature. First the ram Black Phillip
kills the father. That's natural, what often happens when an animal
previously out-rassled by his master, gets a chance for revenge. But then nature is ratchetted up to superstition (aka religion). We
hear the black devil ram seduce the oldest, Thomasin, and carry her off
to join the powerful coven of sexually free women that terrifies
domestic normalcy. That sexual paranoia, of course, is the
psychological source of the legends of witches. They represent a
rampant female sexuality that no man can control  so they must be
demonized. Certainly never elected.

******
9 March 2016
5
The cinematography and the acting are amazing! Truly amazing. The sets,
costuming, and props are magnificent. If you are a filmmaker, this
flick is worth your time. You can tell that they are going for subtlety
in the story, and it ends up being too subtle. Split between dramatic
family dynamics, and the fear of a witch in the woods, the threads for
tension are found and abandoned too quickly to give you a real thrill.
It feels like they got written into a corner, so they take a left turn
at the end of the 3rd act of the film, abruptly tying up "loose ends"
subsequently leaving you with a "twist" that is so outside the scope of
the world that has been created that it isn't even fun or shocking. It
ends up feeling like you sat through a long period drama, and then got
rushed through to the end without getting any impact. They talked about
wanting the set and the props and all of the production design to be
its own character, and unfortunately that does not come through. Yes,
it is a beautiful and authentic backdrop, but it doesn't do much in the
way of putting you deeper in the story. It's just a pretty set. I
wanted my blood to curdle, I wanted to be creeped out, I wanted to feel
like there was an air of mystery somewhere with a big reveal.
Unfortunately this film has none of that. I've never seen such a flat
story told with such stunning visuals.

******
8 March 2016
6
I'm not sure what the point of this movie was. You never really find
out exactly what happened. You're sort of left wondering what the point
of the last 92 minutes was.The main problem with this movie was that they tried (and failed) to
write it in an older dialect of English and failed miserably, because,
despite being filmed in Toronto which has at least 2 universities
offering a linguistics program, they failed to ask a linguist how to
speak the English properly.They used the word "thou/thee/thy/thine" as opposed to "you/your/yours"
throughout the movie. The first problem with this is that this movie is
happening after the Brits invading North America. The term "thou" died
before this. The second problem with this is that they used the term
incorrectly. The word "thou" is the singular second person pronoun,
whereas "you" was the plural second person pronoun, or the singular
polite second person. If you speak French, the word "thou" is the
equivalent of the word "tu" and the word "you" is the equivalent of the
word "vous". At one point, William says to his children, "All of thee
stop that!" and even a week later I am still cringing. Other wrong
parts, is that for some reason, we assume the first settlers must have
spoken present-day British English (even though there is no "one"
British English), when in reality, North American English, specifically
Canadian English is, is more like Old English than any dialect of
British English. One major part of this was the the characters took
part in the deletion of h's and coda r's. Do you know how we know the
first Brits to come to North America pronounced all the r's and h's?
Because we in North America still pronounce all our r's and h's. What,
did these people think Brits had stopped pronouncing r's and h's long
before they came to North America and that somehow the sounds
reappeared in North American English? The other problem is they went
all Shakespearean style in their talking. Shakespeare not only happened
200 years before the time of this movie, but it was written in poetic
prose meant to be like candy to the ears and did not reflect how people
actually spoke. How would you feel if people 500 years from now looked
at our poetry and assumed we all talked in ridiculous rhymes like that?
The whole movie was an ear sore. Next time either hire a linguist, or
just talk normally.

******
5 March 2016
2
The Witch can be summed up in one word: sick! The costumes, props,
sound affects, and acting looked so authentic in the trailer, so
without bothering to read all the good and bad reviews before going, I
did the regrettable thing. I bought the tickets. What a big mistake! I
genuinely believe this movie was made to propagate satanism. Soon after
the movie started, I began to feel uneasy. Hints of incestuous desires,
grotesque nudity, morally corrupt young kids, betrayals among parents
and kids, hopelessness of faith, the powerless God, kids and parents
turning on each other, genocide, child sex, you name it. And you don't
even want to know how the movie ends! The story seems to be a confusing
mix of Hansel and Gretel, Salem Witch Hunt, and The Shining. I felt
like throwing up from the moral filth of the movie. Sick!

******
22 February 2016
9
For those who are horror fans know how to truly appreciate a movie for
what it's worth,this is everything you have dreamed of. It really gets
under you skin and resonates in you mind long after the movie is over.
There is so much meaning to it. Each character is unique and the third
act is fantastic. Its a slow burning movie but that really isn't a
problem at all. It's fantastically atmospheric and meaningful. My only
fear is that the general public won't see the brilliance of this film
because unfortunately were stuck in an age where people want a quick
thrill with hardly any substance at all. This is not that film. Its so
much more. Its shame that it's been wasted on the general public of
today.

******
21 February 2016
8
As other reviewers have said, "The Witch" is not a movie that scares
you with the tired old tricks, or tries to make you jump out of your
seat. It did chill me to the bone, however. The setting, the dialogue,
the score, a goat named Black Phillip, all worked well together to
creep me the hell out.I was a bit disappointed by the ending, or maybe just confused by the
choice to end it in that manner. I'd still recommend this movie to
anyone looking for an entertaining, different, kind of movie. Great to
see some originality these days.Also, Black Phillip, may be the best name of any character (human or
animal) ever.

******
11 March 2016
1
Being a huge horror fan, I was really looking forward to watching this
film, after the great reviews on IMDb by both Critics & Users .......
BUT WHAT A MASSIVE DISAPPOINTMENT !!!!New Writer/Director:Robert Eggers has clearly tried to make a horror
version of "The Crucible" .... BUT FAILED MISERABLY !!! The 1 out of 10
rating I have given is partially due to the good performances by the
cast ... and partially due to IMDb not allowing 0.It is a real shame that these good performances were drowned in the
mire of this dreadful story/script !! Mr Eggers appears to have a
passion for long blackout sequences (of 5-10 seconds) after a dramatic
scene ..... IT'S A SHAME HE DIDN'T USE THIS BLACKOUT TECHNIQUE FOR THE
ENTIRE 92 MINUTES AND DO US ALL A HUGE FAVOUR !!!!! I am a believer in
closely following the work of promising new writer/directors, but I'm
afraid I will not be viewing any more or Mr Eggers work ... as this
film was Truly APPALLING AS A HORROR !!! Back in 1982 there was a far less clever & cultured horror called
"Superstition (aka The Witch)"..... WHICH IS INFINITELY MORE
ENTERTAINING AND IS A REAL HORROR FILM!!! Mr Eggers version is
pretentious tripe !!!!!!!!!!

******
1 March 2016
1
One of the worst movies I think I've ever seen. The beginning drags
along at a painful pace and one keeps waiting for something truly
frightening or enlightening to happen but it never does. The
cinematography is very well done and the acting is good for what it is
but that doesn't make up for the lack of plot nor the plodding pace at
which the movie drags. I sincerely don't understand how people are
rating this as high as they are. Is it possible that my friends and I
saw an entirely different version? If you want a truly scary movie,
which I was mistakenly looking for, look somewhere else because this is
not it.

******
27 February 2016
1
I was expecting to be frightened out of my mind, to have nightmares, to
see homicidal witches around every corner....No. After seeing "The
Witch" last week, as the packed crowd for the evening showing laughed
at the ending credits, my conclusion is that "The Witch" is an
unbelievably ridiculous and poorly done drama set in seventeenth
century New England. The movie was about this overly religious Puritan
family consisting of a father, a mother, a baby (which gets kidnapped
at the beginning),some twins, a son, and a teen age daughter. They get
kicked out of a conservative religious congregation for being too
"conservative." The family get banished to a dark and creepy forest
where they get their butts kicked by their own fear and stupidity, and
then later on get knocked off one by one (except for the teen age
daughter)by a group of homicidal "killer" witches. I hated the whole
damn family and didn't feel sorry for them at all. At all. First of
all, this is my blow by blow description of why I hated them. First of
all, there were the twin children who screamed and ranted throughout
the picture like a bunch of god damn idiots. They were a big annoyance
and distraction throughout. Why? Because they took me right out of the
movie whenever they showed up on the screen. I felt like getting up and
telling them to shut-up several times. I hated the extremely pathetic,
needy mother. I thought the hulking, clueless dopey father was a moron.
I was stunned at the stupidity of the son who had no sense of the
danger he was in. I felt sorry for the daughter who just let everybody
run over her. A lot of things in "The Witch" didn't make any sense.
Like when the family's baby was kidnapped at the beginning of the
story, you would think they would run back to the town they had left
and gotten the police to help them (which is what you normally would do
in a situation like that). They didn't. I felt no sympathy for these
people. And the ending was too idiotic to be believed. The teen age
daughter gets turned into a naked crazy witch who flies in the air,
laughing (with other, flying naked witches). Huh? What was that all
about? The ending felt like it came from another movie. Well, like a
Ken Russell movie from 60s and 70s (if you know who he is). See this
movie at your own risk. Or not.

******
27 February 2016
3
Weird. This movie was definitely weird, and that in itself is not
necessarily bad. Weird can be okay. I found this movie to be weird,
unique, disturbing, interesting, and creepy. Not scary, more creepy.
The good parts about this movie was the scenery, the acting, the
uniqueness (no clichés in *this* film), and the time period (mid
1600's). The absolute worst part of this film was that I couldn't
understand most of it. I didn't understand most (and that means over
50%) of the sentences. I wanted subtitles. I'm reading from others that
the dialogue was a wee bit hard to understand. Ya' THINK? That's kind
of like saying a cannon fired on a ship gives a few splinters. Anyway,
I understood about 20% of the dialogue. The second worst thing was that
it didn't tie things together. SPOILER ALERT (kind of): I waited for
the end to tell me who the witch really was, what did she do, was the
teenage girl insane (that would have been a better ending in my
opinion), why did the mother hallucinate, was anyone really evil, what
happened to Caleb in the cave, what happened to the twins, etc. etc.
The third worst element was the over dramatized scenes for effect -- he
gets gutted, she gets strangled, he upchucks a bloody apple, she gets
the knife, he gets shot in the eye (but later, no blood!), she gets
hen-pecked, the boy has a 1950 haircut... my WORD! And the ending was
just silly to me. A talking goat? At that point, I wondered if the film
was realistic and someone lost their mind. Nope. Sheer silly fantasy.
This may be my failing in that I was expecting realism from a
fantastical film. But the dark mood, the cinematography, and the
imagery haunted me. The acting was superb. Also, the paranoia,
suspicion, and mistrust that existed in a family who loved each other
was done well.

******
20 February 2016
10
"The Witch" is undoubtedly one of the most skillfully made horror
movies I've ever had the privilege of seeing. This movie excels on
multiple levels: the performances, the cinematography, the score, art
direction, production design - and above all - its unmatched
uniqueness. I'm fully confident that this movie will be remembered for
quite some time.Something so horrifying occurs during the first five minutes that we
are 100% invested for the rest of the movie. We have seen this in the
trailer: a young woman is playing peek-a-boo with her baby brother in
an open field. Suddenly, the baby is snatched up by an invisible witch
and taken deep into the woods. For the record, this movie does not
attempt to leave the baby's fate up to question; we see everything.
This is an incredibly bold move to make in the first five minutes, and
it's frightening as hell. This is not a movie that relies on jump-scares or gore. Rather, it's a
perfectly paced slow-burner. Through flawless directing, we are
completely aware of how serious of a role religion played for people of
this time period. This allows us to understand their overwhelming fear
of witchcraft and evil. It wasn't a superstition to them, it was a
reality. What makes this film so exceptional is that we are able to
feel that fear for ourselves. We sympathize so much with the family on
screen that it breaks our hearts to see them afflicted with so much
fear. It feels like we are witnessing an incredibly convincing
nightmare from 1630s New England. From start to finish, we are presented with so much vivid historical
detail, that it's hard to look away from. The dialogue, the costume
design, and the historical accuracy make the film all the more
realistic. It legitimately feels like we are seeing the 1630s
in-the-flesh; not one detail is missing.I highly recommend this movie - not just to horror fans, but to
film-lovers everywhere. The sheer level of focus makes it unlike any
other horror movie. The performances are so convincing that we see
actual fear in the characters' eyes. Nothing looks fake. The score is
eerie and deeply unsettling. The cinematography is hauntingly flawless. "The Witch" is never difficult to take seriously. It is all at once a
perfect historical film, a heart-breaking drama, and - above all - a
blood-curdling horror film.

******
19 February 2016
5
I'm not entirely sure how to rate this movie, because I can't decide if
I liked it or not, so I just gave it a 5. On one hand, the cast was
good. Atmosphere/setting was creepy. Attire & score was on point. Some
"WTF" moments in the beginning that had you wanting to see what was to
transpire..but...It just kind of left me feeling flat from the middle
towards the end. The premise was good & it had so much potential to be
great, but I left feeling 'meh...I just didn't see any solid, fluidity
to the story and the ending came just when I thought it might start
getting good...Basically, it just lacked a solid story. Instead there
were a bunch of great beginnings, and that was that. The dialect I
understand was spoken to the time period, but the way they spoke it,
with accents and pace, made it somewhat difficult to understand and
decipher at first. It was hard to keep up with what they were saying,
which got to be annoying. Maybe I would have enjoyed it more had I
found this movie on Netflix or Redbox, with subtitles & lower
expectations. While it's not an awful movie, I don't see the 7.8 rating
it had at the time I saw it. I give it a solid 5.

******
20 February 2016
4
I was highly disappointed by The Witch. I just don't understand why
independent horror films keep failing to scare me these days. The
closest anything has come to scaring me in recent years is perhaps
Babadook and Goodnight Mommy, but even those fell a little short of
their potential. In this one we have a handful of creepy scenes that are completely
wasted, because this film so lacks anything resembling a plot that
that's all they come across as, just random scenes.OK, here we go, I'll try to explain it (spoiler warning). A family is
for some reason exiled from an early 17th century New England town, so
they go off and find a spot to live on their own, but they don't seem
to know how to grow or hunt for food. The family isn't properly
introduced to us in the first place, so it's a little confusing (is
there one or two families living together) but soon we figure out it's
just one family with a lot of kids. They all talk like Shakespearean
characters so it's hard to identify with them. One day the little baby
vanishes in thin air and apparently there's some old witch living out
in the woods who took him and I guess, ate him or something. From then
on nothing is explained. The witch does make another appearance, but
she's just a flash and she never becomes a character in this story, is
never explained whatsoever. The older boy disappears in the woods and
when he returns he's possessed, I guess, or maybe he's just sick and
delusional. I don't know. The older daughter and the younger set of
twins then start accusing each other of being witches because their
goat gives blood instead of milk, while the mother thinks she's breast
feeding her baby when really a crow is pecking on her. The father chops
a lot of wood in at least four or five scenes of him chopping wood.
Their goat then becomes murderous and everyone goes nuts and the girl
discovers that the goat is Lucifer himself, I guess, and he tempts the
girl to sign her name in his book and she goes off into the woods to
float around in the sky with the other witches.The end.

******
21 February 2016
4
The Witch was the film I was anticipating most out of all the films
slated to be released in 2016. I can not think of a word that means
beyond disappointed.There are many possibilities in the first act that tease subjects the
film could go on to explore in-depth. Instead they all lead to dead
ends. In a way, the entire film is a tease of bigger ideas that are
traded in for a cliché horror ending.A film like The Witch can choose to be ambiguous or it can give the
audience a sense of satisfaction. The Witch tries to do both and in
doing this, the ending betrays everything that came before it. Casual
audiences may be somewhat satisfied as the end credits begin to roll.
However, those of us who love films that demand multiple viewings will
feel cheated or, even worse, indifferent. The writer/director takes
away any sense of lingering mystery, he takes away any want or need we
may have had to watch the film again. It's like watching a painter dump
a bucket of water all over a painting we just watched them meticulously
paint for hours. It all seems like a complete waste. And it is.The trailers for The Witch are more frightening than the film itself.
However, The Witch's biggest sin is how forgettable it all is in the
end. And that is unforgivable.

******
20 February 2016
9
I walked into this film with an expectation that it would be scary as
hell, the trailers showed a lot of cool scenes that left the viewer in
anticipation of something that hasn't been done in a horror film since,
perhaps the Blair Witch Project? Films about Witches are rare, in my
opinion the greatest of all time is Suspiria, mainly because of its
originality and the great soundtrack. But this film, I would say is
befitting of its epic title. Not since It Follows was I this scared
walking the dog in the park at Midnight. For the record, I walk the dog
every night at midnight, and I have a tough dog. And I average about 30
horror films a month, my collection is quite extensive, so for a movie
to scare me, it really says something. I'm a little worried going to
sleep tonight, may have some bad night terrors or something, perhaps I
should watch some Dora the Explorer cartoons to ease my tension. For a
horror fan and fans of films alike, I think it is time to give credit
to where credit is due and classify the horror genre as important as
the Rom Com and nominate it for something, anything. Scary as Hell.

******
12 March 2016
4
Just saw this at the theater. I think it is worth seeing because I just
plain believed the drama playing out on screen. This is because the
acting was very good. It looked beautiful (of course). And the writing
was believable.Basically there's a family patriarch in colonial America who pulls up
stakes at his village and tries to resettle out in the wilderness over
some kind of moral/religious disagreement with the town elders. The
strain of living off the land all on their own, then, is naturally no
good for the friction in the family. To top it off, their isolation
makes them vulnerable to a coven of witches in the forest nearby who
kidnap, murder, and/or craftily turn them on one another.I'll get the flaws out of the way: the movie has an annoying,
pretentious habit of lingering on certain shots for WAY too long. Yes
the acting and writing is really good, I really do feel like I'm in the
1600s with this family to whom religion is the center of existence. But
the camera freakin lingers on the boy Caleb getting a bandage around
his chest for what feels like half an hour... On an agonizingly slow
pan up to the treetops of the forest while loud and dissonant music
brays like a wounded jackass... It distracts from the narrative and
almost feels like a film student who's smitten with his own brilliance.Also Caleb's death scene was really stupid and drawn out. It clubbed me
over the head with "CRAZY POSSESSED CHILD HIJINX" so hard that I almost
got a concussion. There's a strange feeling I got that the movie, like,
makes you expect something cool to happen (like, I dunno, the mutation
scenes in John Carpenter's "The Thing"), but they never do... We just
get actors acting crazy and fake blood and loud music. Kinda like a
hamburger without the patty.One exception was a scene involving a crow and a bloody boob. That was
clever and a little creepy.But still, the movie is interesting because it somehow rings true. It
said it was based on true accounts of witches, and I believe it.
Witches are not nice. They do not mean well. They are monsters who hate
everything good, and Christianity is the only thing that really
challenges them. There may have been a few good reasons behind the
witch hunts.

******
1 March 2016
4
Yesterday I went and watched this movie expecting it to be a really
scary movie. That was my first mistake. If I wouldn't of gone into the
movie expecting it to be scary, I'd give this movie a 6. This movie was
not necessarily scary, it was mainly about the story line. The story
line however was just OK. It's a traditional "old-time" witch story. My
least favorite part was the ending. The ending seemed predictable and
is what disappointed me the most. I guess you can expect this in a
witch movie. The actors did a good job, and I liked the way the
director made the characters look. Other than that, the director should
of added a few scarier moments and make an ending that will forever be
remembered.

******
28 February 2016
10
"The Witch" is arguably one of the most racially prevalent movies of
the millennium. This is a story of white (English) settlers who settle
in rural America and are banned from a plantation. The plantation is a
literal reference to the plantations that white forefathers originally
enslaved blacks in colonial America. William (the father) was kicked
out of the plantation for being too radical, to which he argues that
his practices are, in his mind, justified because they what God
demands. He and his family are banished and take their farm somewhere
else. Black Phillip (the goat) symbolizes not just the black slaves,
but the entire black race; when let out of his pen he is taunted by the
children for being black and even his name: BLACK Phillip is a nod to
the tyranny and oppression of the white man. Throughout the movie,
however, Black Phillip learns to turn the white family against one
another. Eventually they all kill each other. Black Phillip (The black
race) rises to the top where he belongs.

******
25 February 2016
9
THE WITCH (2016) *** 1/2 Anya Taylor-Joy, Ralph Ineson, Kate Dickie,
Harvey Scrimshaw, Ellie Grainger, Lucas Dawson, Bathsheba Garnett,
Sarah Stephens, Julian Richings, Wahab Chaudhry. 17th century
supernatural spook fest about a clan of Puritans in exile attempting to
forage for themselves find out instead a sinister force in their midst,
threatening their very lives and possibly their souls. Newbie filmmaker
Robert Eggers manages to get the psychological underpinnings of the
real horror at hand - personality conflicts and paranoia - while
evoking a too-real to believe world created with immense production
design by Craig Lathrop, beautiful cinematography by Jarin Blaschke and
unnerving music by Mark Korven. The ensemble is perfectly blended with
a finely etched turn by Taylor-Joy as the eldest child of the brood who
is caught between heaven and hell. Genuinely chilling and echoes of
Hammer horror films adds to its pedigree.

******
25 February 2016
9
'THE WITCH': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)Critically acclaimed indie horror flick, from debut feature filmmaker
Robert Eggers. It tells the story of a deeply devout Christian family,
living in the wilderness (of 1630s New England), that are terrorized by
a witch (and other evil forces). The movie stars Anya Taylor-Joy, Ralph
Ineson, Kate Dickie and Harvey Scrimshaw. It was made on a budget of
just $3.5 million, and received rave reviews from critics (but poor
reviews from theater audiences). I enjoyed it quite a bit. William (Ineson), and his family, leave the New England plantation
they're staying at (in 1630), and head out to the edge of the
wilderness, to start life over there. William and his wife Katherine
(Dickie) have their fifth child together, named Samuel, but he
immediately goes missing. Katherine blames her oldest daughter,
Thomasin (Taylor-Joy), for the baby's disappearance; since she was the
one watching over him at the time. More mysterious, and very creepy,
things keep happening, as the family continues to turn on each other;
while always trying to stay true to their faith. The movie is very purposefully slow-paced, and it works. It's always
building towards something, and always digging under the viewer's skin.
What Eggers does, with such a limited budget, is extremely impressive;
and the cast is all great as well. The movie is very creepy, and
horrifying, while never giving the viewer any cheap thrills; it's
horror done right! It also has some great social commentary, on how
being deeply religious can do a lot of psychological harm; to
individuals and families (the Satanic Temple even enthusiastically
endorsed this movie). Being raised catholic, I'm always fascinated by
(well done) religious themed movies (like this). I can understand why
the average (unintellectual) viewer wouldn't like it, but everyone else
should be blown away!Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/0d1sap746-M

******
21 February 2016
8
Set in the 1660's is the story about a family who after leaving their
plantation goes out to live in the outskirts of New England. When their
baby, Sam, is taken from their parish an unruly force takes over the
family that begins to slowly tear them apart. The film is directed by
Robert Eggers and stars Kate Dickie, Anya-Taylor Joy, and Ralph Ineson.It's been a long while since watching a film that is genuinely
unsettling but to also find it refreshing at the same time. This time
around we're talking about 'The Witch' and having viewed the trailer
this past month I was eagerly looking forward to seeing it. To describe
this movie is nothing but unsettling and the credit goes out to the
director who was able to hone in the suspense not knowing where the
movie would go next. Now I have to warn everyone in saying that this
isn't your typical horror film with big budget effects and cheap jump
scares forced down your throats. Instead you are treated to a time
piece that sets the tone with events that took place in old folklore
and a time where witchcraft was believed to exist. So for some viewers
this may not rub off so well and could turn them away if your not
knowing what to expect. With that said, this is not one to be
overlooked.You can read more of my review here at:
http://thecinemascore.com/2016/02/19/the-witch-2016-review/

******
19 February 2016
7
Let me state on the onset that The Witch carries a beware tag, for most
people going into this film excepting a full blown horror film, that
offers cheap thrills like the regular released Hollywood horror films
ex. Saw or Paranormal Activity you will be disappointed.The Witch
offers more of an art-house film with the films setting being
horrorish. The Witch is a niche film made for people who relish
artistic cinema, its not really made for the regular cinema going
audience who indulge in escapist cinema. The film has certain milieu,
that caught my attention right away, I was sucked into 1600's New
England. The clothing, the way the people talked with heavy accents,
the houses made of wood/hay, the farms filled with animals, everything
was genuine and authentic of those times. The films attention to detail
was something to marvel at, the cinematography was impeccable, it
helped create the eerie dark feeling the film had from the first frame.
But the film has its flaws but more on that later.Story wise in the 16th century, the deeply religious William leaves a
New England plantation alongside his family (wife Katherine, daughter
Thomasin, son Caleb, and twins Mercy and Jonas) due to a disagreement
of beliefs. After a day's travel, the family finds a spot of land to
start their new life. Several months later, the family has built a
house and farm on the land and Katherine has given birth to her fifth
child, Samuel. Thomasin looks after the infant Samuel one day but,
while Thomasin is playing peek-a-boo with him, Samuel is abducted by a
witch who lives in the surrounding forest. What happens next forms the
crux of the film.Acting wise the cast was full of newcomers/ newer(unknown actors)
actors who performed exceeding well. Anya-Taylor Joy has a cute
innocence about her which she conveys well on screen, but when the dust
settles especially in the climax/pre climax she turns too the dark side
and shows her devilish side well. Ralph Ineson shows a helpless side of
himself as a father stuck between his family and religion, he is great.
Katie Dickie is schizophrenic on screen as the mother who cant cope
with the loss of her child and turns semi-crazy. The younger kids have
more of a comical role, and provide some nice light moments.The most important part of The Witch is the films whole aura, which is
pitch perfect. Like I stated before the 1600s is perfectly depicted.
The whole family being extremely religious is spot on for those times.
The films director Robert Eggers makes sure that the audience has been
encapsulated back in time. With the extraordinary camera-work the whole
dark eerie, unsettling theme is fleshed out well. I must say I have
never really seen a horror film like The Witch before, were most of
horror comes through the silences, and from a artistic landscape, its a
film that makes the mind think . There is no gimmicky fake cheap
thrills, there is some gore, but its rather justified, and not
overdone. The music creates a big impact on the film, and creates a
tension filled screen. This film is more about creating a dark
atmosphere, rather than trying to scare the audience. Which can be a
bad thing or a good thing, here its a mix both. The films pace is very
sluggish and a 1hr 30 min films feels more like 2hr + plus film. The
Witch sometimes is to art-house for my liking, and more thrills were
needed to keep the audience engaged, as I could see audience members
getting tireless while watching this film. Finally The Witch is at its
best in the films last 30 min when all hell breaks loose , and the
scene when the brother has a exorcism of sorts, and when the sister
heads to jungle with a black goat are the films highlight.Overall as I could gauge from the audience I was watching The Witch
with, this film is not everyones cup of tea. The Witch is for more of a
niche audience, who enjoy all types of cinema, and hone films as a
artistic form, more than just escapist entertainment. Its a Sundance
winner, and I can see why, there's a lot to love here, and I throughly
enjoyed myself, but I feel bad for the audience going in excepting a
full blown horror film, the film is misleading. Watch at your on
caution you have been warned.3.5/5* or 7/10

******
27 February 2016
2
This movie was very disappointing to say the least. I went into about a
half full theater with decent expectations from all the good reviews I
had read beforehand. Let me start by saying there is some good in this
film. The attention to detail for the period it takes place in is very
evident. Also, the acting was decent in my opinion. However, this
should not be considered a horror film. There is nothing scary about
it! There is some tension build up, but it never goes anywhere. This
film is more about a family drama than anything else. When it ended, I
had the same reaction as nearly everyone in the theater, which was
"Wait, that's it"? No one in the crowd looked pleased, and I heard
multiple verbal outbursts from people saying "What the eff did I just
watch" or "Wow what a waste of my time" etc. I mean people were very
visually angry with the film. Even the guy at the popcorn stand asked
me what movie I had seen, and when I said "The Witch", he asked if I
thought it sucked too. I see some of the people that have reviewed this
film on here who claim that it's for intellectuals and that it has a
deeper message and such. Let me just say that that's a bunch of
nonsense because I think you're reaching for something that isn't
there. If you wanna watch a period piece with a "deeper meaning" then
go watch a documentary or put on the history channel. If you actually
want to be entertained, then by no means should you watch this film!
It's a waste of time and money.

******
23 February 2016
5
Yep folks exactly that! I had heard a great deal about this new, little
flick that could, a good vibe and positive word of mouth response and
feedback...the darling movie at Sundance...So naturally, I went in to see it with some interest and some hopeful,
albeit modest, expectations. After all this time of the year treats
it's movie going audiences to a plethora of toxic cinematic garbage. Case in point "Deadpool", nothing more than a pedestrian cinematic
mediocrity, sits at the top of the crap pile. So in order to avoid Ryan Reynolds at all costs and his painful
mimicking impression at being edgy and original, I went for "The Witch"
as somekind of anti-dote...And instead of anything remotely original, visionary or at least
entertaining, I was treated to a overwrought, self-important,
self-congratulatory, lazy and underwhelming turd of a movie! Interesting cast, gorgeous cinematography...the rest...forgettable,
disposable and utterly inconsequential. You know, it is very easy to pick on big budget or genre movies and to
bring them down and pounce on them. But indie movies have somehow
gotten a pass over the years, because of this fake aura of authenticity
they seem to carry whenever they come out of a film festival, like
Sundance for example. Not this time. Nope, not at all. "The Witch" plain sucks...badly...and
unfortunately in the process reminds me of "The Blair Witch Project"
another fetid piece of putrefaction, which gives me vivid migraines to
this very day!

******
23 February 2016
4
Going into this movie, I tried with everything I had to enjoy it. I was
fully aware of the type of horror film it was, which I believe we need
more of these days. Being scared by not seeing but feeling and not
knowing what is the cause of the problems that arise. We fear what we
do not know or understand. Going back to a time where if you were
different than you were labeled as evil. I've always said that the
perfect setting for a horror film would be the Salem Witch Trials. With that being said, it felt as if something was missing throughout
the film. Everyone was waiting for that moment of pure fear but it
never came. A few intense scenes helped set it up, but there was never
any payout or anything memorable.I can appreciate wanting to keep this as authentic as possible with
having the characters speak exactly how the Puritans spoke back then,
but it was hard to follow for 2 hours. There were many times I found
myself thinking "I have no idea what the hell they're talking about."
Hats off to the cast for having to memorize those lines. Don't go in expecting this to be anything close to the your typical
horror film (which many in the theater failed to do.) I do not regret
seeing it, but wished it had left more of an impression.

******
21 February 2016
9
The Witch is one of the best horror films of 2016. This is a film that
you'll either love it or hate it. I'm one of those people that loved
this film. The film is creepy but not really scary. What's creepy about
this film is the atmosphere and the musical score. What was scary about
the film was the haunting imagery. The acting for the film is
phenomenal everyone does a great job. When I was watching this film it
felt like I was in the 1600's. Whoever did the set designs and the
costumes all deserve an Oscar nomination. The directing for this film
by Robert Eggers did a fantastic job for his directorial debut and I
can't wait to see what he does next. There were a couple problems that
I had with the film but they're only minor ones. The pacing of the film
does have a couple slow parts and the language that the characters
speak is hard to understand but later on in the film you start to have
a better understanding of what they are saying. A lot of people didn't
like the ending but I thought it was a good ending and I will be
remembering that last shot for awhile. Overall if you're a fan of these
art house horror films then this is for you. I think this is a film
that will be analyzed in film schools and will come down to a horror
classic.

******
20 February 2016
10
Once a year, a horror movie is released that doesn't follow the
original "hot girl, jump scare" plot, and delves into a mind twisting
story that slowly builds up until you're completely lost in awe. 2016's
example of this is The Witch. What starts as a simple plot, a family
getting excommunicated from the village in 1630's New England, turns
into a tale of deception and family bonds being broken. One of my
favorite things about the Witch was the dialogue; the entire movie uses
Shakespearian-like dialogue that really draws viewers in. The acting
itself is superb; there isn't a second that passes by where the actors
aren't 110% in character. The film itself makes it evident that
witchcraft will play a vital role in the plot, and while it does, the
plot takes a turn and really builds itself upon the deteriorating
family relationships. The setting of the film itself was beautifully
haunting; shots of the forest surrounding the family's farm will
fascinate you with a childlike sense of terror. The film's pace was
also smartly planned; a well paced build up leads to one of the most
intense endings in cinematic history. Overall, this is one of the best
works of film I've seen in years, and not only is it an example of what
horror movies should be, it's an example of what the art of cinema is.

******
20 February 2016
10
When I saw the first preview for VVitch in October, I pondered whether
or not to see this movie, not because it didn't look interesting, but
because I questioned the impact it would have on my spirit and moreover
my soul. Rob Zombie's The Lords of Salem (2012) was one of the better
takes on the witch in American Cinema. His representation was
frightening and enchanting, drawing you into it's madness as the female
protagonist, played by Sherri Moon Zombie, slips into the world of the
witch. Cable TV Shows like American Horror Story and True Blood also
crafted their versions of the folkloric succubus, while mainstream
media and broadcast TV typically glamorize these demonic women to fit
popular culture.The Witches of Eastend (Netflix, Jenna Dewan Tatum) put a Norse spin on
the origins of witch clans, while the shows Salem and A Penny Dreadful
brutally recant the trials which suspected and actual witches faced.
Both shows are led by phenomenal actors; Janet Montgomery, who plays
Mary Sibley in the Lovecraftian drama, Salem; and Eva Green, Casino
Royale's to die for Bond-girl, who darkens every scene with her
piercing blue eyes, passionate prose and gorgeous charisma. Last summer, I listened to an audio book entitled, The Teachings of Don
Juan, by Carlos Castaneda. The book is an autobiographical account by
Castaneda of his exploration into the world of hallucinogens, with a
Native America (Don Juan) witch doctor serving as his apprehensive
guide. After returning from one of his hallucinations, Castaneda is
warned by Don Juan that a witch has found a way into his psyche and
might manifest him/herself in the physical world unless Don Juan draws
her out. The account of the exorcism is a frightening moment for the
reader and author. It is the same underlying feeling of Castaneda's
journey that courses through each word, each scene, and embodies this
real world witch, a movie so carefully and perfectly crafted by Robert
Eggers, it ensures cult status. The Witch is horrifying in its very presentation, with the threat of
the unknown always looming. A shining light within the film, Anya
Taylor-Joy, plays Thomasin, the beautiful eldest daughter of a farm fed
family. Her coming of age, along with several subtle nuances create a
duality within the film which is slowly delivered with small, yet
impacting, climactic moments. One of the more apparent overtones in the
movie is represented by a beautifully candlelit sequence where William
(Father), played by Ralph Ineson recites a prayer while holding up a
bit of bread that will soon be broken and eaten by his family.
William's appearance resembles that of an imagined Christ, on one
occasion his clothing appears as swaddling cloth as if an aberration of
the Son of God was plucked from a Renaissance painting and superimposed
into this film.William's twin children are an indulgence of the eyes and ears, to say
the least, their perfect delivery of the well-crafted dialog all but
solidifies the films believability. Their relationship to the families
blasphemously black, horned billy goat is a trepidation, their counter
charm an essential ingredient in the films making. It's always
difficult to see children in a role which may expose them to moments of
stolen innocence, yet the poetic dialog and tactful inclusion/exclusion
of the children during brutal yet necessary moments in the movie
allowed for a clear conscience. That's not to say you don't get your
witch. The Witch is monstrous, horrifying, cunning, and seedy enough to
gratify your well-deserved disgust.

******
11 March 2016
1
And I thought "Sinister 2" was bad... I don't mind films without a
plot, but even in this case there should be some closure, some sense in
what I had to endure. There's nothing here - no plot, no sensible
dialogues (making the characters speak 'Old English' ('May the holy
crap land upon thine head') doesn't make them sensible, in my opinion.
Wikka followers may probably extract some sense out of all these
spells, but I believe you can draw the same information from Wikipedia
or specialised witchcraft sources, whilst seekers of adrenaline burst
will certainly be disappointed - I wanted to giggle for the last 30
minutes - of this film if I hadn't been disgusted. Watching this opus
is like watching a huge and almost completely static pile of human
excrements - it's a pure, undiluted, concentrated and well seasoned
crap. I cannot recommend this film even to my worst enemy. Unless you
are a masochist, give this film a very wide berth. (go to a pub instead
or take a nap - it'll be much more useful.)

******
1 March 2016
1
This not scary at all. How did get a 7.5. People like this movie it is
crap. The story line awful. There is more to a good horror movie then
atmosphere. This movie has an awful ending. The characters are nuts. A
family is forced out of a religious community. They go and live in
woods. Where there is coven of witches. This could have been a good
movie if it was not so badly written. Do not wast your time. And do not
wast your money. Do not see this movie. It is a big stinky pile off
pooh pooh. This is just pooh pooh. Pooh pooh, pooh pooh, pooh pooh. It
is not scary at all. It is just pooh pooh. It is it is pooh pooh with
pee pee on top. Do not see it.

******
20 February 2016
6
We enjoyed the preview and looked forward to seeing this movie. Got our
tickets, snacks, and good seats. The movie opened and set the stage
quickly, and overall was well-paced. The cinematography was good, but
scene cuts were rough at times. It was a good look at the rough lives
of early settlers in New England and the difficulties in staying alive
and raising a family outside the (relative) protection of a large
settlement.We hoped to enjoy a suspenseful, scary, non-slasher movie. Didn't
deliver on what we wanted. We expected dramatic tension and suspense,
and were disappointed. We were hoping for 'edge of your seat' and
'jumping out of your skin', but experienced neither.

******
20 February 2016
6
First-time writer/director Robert Eggers has had quite a ride with his
debut film "The Witch," earning the respect and endorsement from the
Sundance Film Festival, the majority of American critics, and even the
Satanic Church. His film is meant to be both an homage and an ode to
New England folktales and fairy tales centering around witchcraft and
the supernatural. Most of the film's dialog and structure came from
folktales from over two-hundred years ago, as stated in the film's end
credits, and the look and feel of the film is remarkably 17th century,
right down to the environments Eggers utilizes.If nothing else, "The Witch" is destined to be one of the most
aesthetically refined and remarkable films of the year, let alone most
beautifully shot horror film of the year. Cinematographer Jarin
Blaschke emphasizes the eeriness of the deep-wooded New England
plantations, with precise focus on the location-swallowing fog and the
overcast skies. As dreary and as miserable as the film looks, it's also
immersive in the regard that it clearly plunges you into a different
world; one you haven't been familiar with in horror films in quite
sometime. Every year, we're almost guaranteed to get a Gothic-style,
Victorian-era film that emphasizes lush scenery and immaculate
cinematography, but rarely do the visual conventions of 17th century
folk intersect with contemporary horror. In that respect, "The Witch"
is a novel concept that sets itself up for noteworthiness on the basis
of its locational possibilities alone.Before I get any more carried away than I already have, the plot must
be introduced. Set in the aforementioned century, the story revolves
around a traditionalist, god-fearing family led by William (Ralph
Ineson), the intensely religious patriarch. His family consists of his
wife Katherine (Kate Dickie), his eldest daughter Thomasin (Anya
Taylor-Joy), his son Caleb (Harvey Scrimshaw), and his young twins
Mercy and Jonas (Ellie Grainger and Lucas Dawson). The family leaves
their old land to start a new life on a farm, where Katherine gives
birth to her fifth child, which is subsequently abducted by a witch
before being sacrificed.This starts an unrelenting curse on this family that works to destroy
it by going after its most innocent and helpless individuals, the
children. Eventually, Caleb winds up becoming the witch's next victim,
as a controlling and possessed spirit enters his body and begins to
overtake him, all while the family is grieving over the loss of their
newborn. Meanwhile, William and Katherine find themselves considering
sending Thomasin into an arranged marriage now that she is becoming
older, and seeing as she's proved herself in capable to take care of
her younger siblings.As one can see, "The Witch" is very much a family drama, with
psychological and supernatural horror ingredients injected into the
film's premise to add the unsettling undertones. Unfortunately, "The
Witch" gets its atmosphere down to a tee so well that it forgets to
make a story that's as creepy as it sets itself up to be, let alone
moving or worthwhile. Despite such wonderful, gloomy settings, the film
never becomes very creepy or interesting enough for audiences to care.
Everything, from the characters' personalities to their religious
guidance, feels within arm's reach of us, and while the authentic,
period-specific dialog is a commendable element, it only works to
further distance people from the film's themes.This is truly a shame because I appreciate what "The Witch" sets up: a
family rooted in deeply traditionalist, religious doctrine that is
slowly finding out that Jesus, God, or any other kind of figure from
their Bible cannot save them from the evil and sin that runs amok in
the world. The idea that Jesus couldn't save himself is one that's hard
enough to grasp, but what happens when one realizes that, because of
that, he cannot save him or her either? William, played very well by
Ineson, who goes for assertive and unnerving here, has the hardest time
grappling with this idea as he watches his family crumble before his
eyes.With that being said, watching "The Witch" can be a frustrating
experience just because of how lifeless it often is. The level of
character interest doesn't come anywhere close to the interest level of
the film's setting, and as a result, there's little to connect to or
embrace. It wasn't until about the hour mark that I truly felt
conflicted as a viewer; here's a film with a biting, interesting
premise and themes that's weighed down, not only by its esoteric
approach, but also by its lack of legitimate creepiness until the last
twenty minutes."The Witch" doesn't flatline entirely like "The Forest" or other horror
films of recent years, particularly ones neutered in content and
approach to attract a younger crowd, but it doesn't titillate or excite
like "It Follows" or "The Sacrament," both films with similar premises,
strong themes, but far more accessible characters and consistently
interesting setups. Some will claim my soft dislike for "The Witch"
comes from my lack of tolerance for slowburn horror, but consistent
readers of my work know I hold slowburn horror near and dear to my
heart and vastly prefer it over the tropes that have become commonplace
in contemporary, American horror. The problem with "The Witch," at the
end of it all, isn't its pace, it's the paces it takes in the wrong
direction.

******
19 February 2016
8
I think the best word to describe this movie is unsettling. The
trailers hinted at just how unsettling the film would get but they
barely scratched the surface of what was going to happen during the
story. It's definitely a horror movie but it's unlike any other film
I've seen in the genre before. There are parts where it seems like
we're just watching a very intense drama but then the atmosphere kicks
it up a notch and you're reminded that this is a really disturbing
horror flick. The director is a guy named Robert Eggers who hasn't
directed a whole lot just yet but I can't help but believe that he has
a promising career ahead of him. Let's talk about the plot.Thomasin (Anya Taylor-Joy) and her family in 1630 New England are
forced to leave their village because of a difference in religious
beliefs. The family heads out into the woods to start a farm and
worship the Lord in the way that Thomasin's parents (Ralph Ineson and
Kate Dickie) want them to. They're already having difficulties
adjusting but things get even worse when the baby of the family goes
missing. Unfortunately, this is just the first of many strange and
horrible incidents that befall the family.The cast does an absolutely phenomenal job and I have to give credit to
Anya Taylor-Joy for carrying this movie as well as she does. She hasn't
been in the acting game for very long but she already shows quite a bit
of promise. Thomasin is a very ambiguous character since she obviously
loves and obeys her parents the best she can but her situation is also
stifling her. There are many reasons for this but the most obvious one
is the deteriorating relationship with her mother. Speaking of the
mother, Dickie gives a phenomenal performance as a loving but very
strict woman when it comes to her children. I also can't forget
Ineson's role as William. He comes off as a tough and hard man but he's
afraid of letting his wife know about their true situation out in the
woods.I mentioned earlier that the movie excels at being unsettling. Well,
there are a few reasons for this. First, the atmosphere out in the
woods and around the farm is very claustrophobic and the it feels like
there's never a good day around this place. It's always dank and it
just feels miserable outside. The house and barn are both small and
quite a few scenes take place with all of the characters scrunched
together with barely any light to speak of. The film also lets you know
right off the bat just how cruelly it's willing to treat its characters
about eight minutes in.Another aspect of the movie that I really enjoyed was how it dealt with
the titular Witch. We only see the Witch a handful of times during the
course of the story but it's obvious that this is a downright evil and
sadistic character. We the audience know of the Witch's existence long
before any of the other characters do and it makes what the family is
going through all the more painful. The Witch is dangerous but the
family starts tearing itself apart with accusations and a complete lack
of trust. This is best shown in the way Thomasin and her mother
interact with one another but Thomasin also has problems with some of
her younger siblings. We slowly start to learn that this distrust is
part of a larger plot but it definitely leaves you wondering what's
going to happen next.I enjoyed this film but it's definitely not the type of thing that
leaves you smiling when you exit the theater. Horror fans will probably
appreciate an excellent addition to the genre and even fans of period
pieces will probably like the look at the past that the movie offers.
However, this film definitely won't be for everyone. I found it
disturbing and I have a pretty high resistance to this kind of stuff. I
recommend it just because of how scary and well put together everything
is but make sure you're actually in the mood for something downright
disturbing and unsettling.

******
23 February 2016
1
The trailer for this film is intense,scary,and thrilling. I was more
than excited to see this on the big screen. Thinking back now I'm
pretty sure there was a misrepresentation of dialogue in the trailer.
No big deal,right? Wrong! I do not understand their English tongue. I
had to focus all the will power I have in my body to catch enough of it
to make a comprehensible sentence. Even with all that concentration I
may have caught about 50% out what was said. Meanwhile, my friend in
the movie theater must of thought I was really into it because he kept
looking over and asking what was going on. With a title of Witch I kind
of expected to see a movie with a witch in it. Wait for it..... there's
a bunny, there's a goat, there's even a hot chick in a cabin in the
woods, but sadly there no Witch.Let's talk a little bit about the family bickering. Have you ever seen
Area 407? At some point in the near future you kind of just want
everyone to die and the movie would just end. That would have been a
good story... At least a better story than whatever the heck that was.
Prayers, yelling, prayers, bickering, prayers, screaming. By the end I
was praying that God would just end the movie. Multiple points in the
movie the screen would go black in-between scenes and every time I was
hoping to see the end credits. I would gather up all my stuff just to
have to see more. Unfortunately the end couldn't have come soon enough.

******
21 February 2016
3
OK I went into the theater with high hopes of a terrifying tense film
that will disturb the crap out of you. Good reviews also were a key
thing to this expectation. I walked out of the theater well...
disappointed. It will not scare you or even entertain you. There are
many horror movies that don't scare you but can still be a good time to
watch. This isn't any of those. I have to get it credit, for its
incredible dialogue, and how it's shot. Based on the time this takes
place, they did a great job on making it appear as though it is in that
time. The dialogue is the same as well. But the plot is confusing, you
will eventually get lost. It's not really a horror movie until the
final 15 minutes. The rest is just a boring story of a family surviving
for the winter. This film is so dead with zero tensity. It is hard to
keep up and even get what, who, or why anything is. The ending is
especially bad, you wait 90 minutes for something exciting to happen
but nothing does. Just skip it. It will disappoint you. Waste of time
and money.

******
20 February 2016
4
I don't understand why "The Witch" is supposed to be so "critically
acclaimed". Amateur critics don't count. Won 5 awards... 4 were from
people that live in their parents' basement and run awards nobody ever
heard of and one was from Sundance, if that tells you anything about
from where this acclaim is coming. Granted, a film doesn't need awards
or recognition from major groups to be good (the reviews I most trust
come from some cynical film fans on the YouTube), or even come from a
major studio. But I think some people view these "outsider" type films
as being instantly high art and great films just because they're not
some "cold, materialistic ad space" or some other stereotype of major
production films.I don't want to say it was bad really... the acting was good and the
idea was good, it was even well shot for what it was. The problem was
the writing/directing with one of the poorest executions I have seen in
a long time.Without spoiling the film, there's a lot I can say. They try too many
angles at once for the story and don't really develop any of them.
This, I wouldn't even classify as horror, though luckily it did stay
away from the modern "horror" tropes of not being horrific at all and
relying on cheap gore or "jump-scares". If anything, it was more like a
suspense film... but with all the suspense removed.The whole thing is one long build up, touching on all these details
very superficially and not developing them until the last 10 minutes.
Actually, about half-way through, there's a scene that makes you think:
"finally, the exposition is over". Then it immediately ends that rising
drama to go back into more exposition. They should have picked an angle
or one underlying cause for the drama and developed it. But this goes
on until the final 10 or 15 minutes of the film where the story just
sort of hits a brick wall at 5 miles per hour. "Wait, that was it? I
sat through all of this for that?".It is a shame that such good acting and shooting had to go to waste on
basically zero story development. The only thing horrifying about this
film is how positive the reviews seem to be.

******
19 February 2016
8
"There's evil in the wood."Set in the 1600s, a family is banished from the commonwealth for not
serving God to the fullest. Forced to move outside the village, the
family wanders off to find a cozy spot to build in front of the woods,
as the gate to their normal lives shut behind themThe family starts their lives over at their newly settled house. They
grow crops and chop firewood, while attending to their children and
newborn, who suddenly vanishes. Lost hope settles within the parents
who make up their minds that a wolf took the newborn. Strange
occurrences begin taking place around the farm. The family comes to the
conclusion they haven't been fully committed to God and have sinned. It
the cause of evil, and witchcraft.One thing that really sets "The Witch" apart from other horror films is
the acting. The ensemble is very impressive, especially the three
children who I bought right from the beginning. The goat is also
incredible and creepy, who is real.The film was shot using predominately natural light, which allows us to
see how families really lived in the 1600s without the luxuries we have
today. The horrid score added greatly to the general creepiness, which
you can hear in most of the trailers. The language used was researched
for years by Eggers and pulled from history books and journals. The
film is just so genuine."The Witch" is the most authentic horror movie in recent memory. One
leaves the theater deeply disturbed, like we just witnessed something
we shouldn't of seen. We feel the need to be cleansed and purified.
Director Robert Eggers' debut film is a slow-burner and everything
horror fans want their movies to be. The audience is able to be placed
in that home and feel the evil within the family. We're able to feel
the terror of Black Phillip, the witch and the surrounding absence of
hope and help.

******
22 February 2016
1
This movie was so bad that I had to sign up for an account with IMDb,
to let my rant be heard worldwide! I was really looking forward to this
film from the first trailer last year! The best thing I can say about
this movie is that it's only 90 minutes long. 90 minutes of trying to
understand what the people are saying,and hoping to catch at least a
glimpse of "the witch". The acting in the movie is actually pretty
good. It's just the movie itself that sucked. I have no idea where
these fabulous reviews are coming from. People actually rejoiced when
the movie ended. I felt a serge of energy sweep over my body, and felt
the need to go out into the world and make a difference (to make up for
the lost 90 minutes of my life). You can go the rest of your life
without seeing this film. It is that bad.

******
24 February 2016
1
This past weekend, I saw this movie with my son. I paid $33.00 for two
tickets to see this movie! (California ticket prices are ridiculous!!!
But that's another complaint.) The most important thing I can say about this piece of crap movie is,
DO NOT SEE IT! It's NOT Scary, It's NOT Interesting, It's NOT
Entertaining! It IS Boring, It IS Unbelievably Bad, It IS A Complete
Waste of Money, Time, and Gas! Do NOT believe ANYONE who tells you that this movie is good! LOOK, even
my 13 year old son wanted to leave early, because it simply was not
interesting, suspenseful or scary!I WANT A DAYUM REFUND AND THAT 2 HOURS OF MY LIFE BACK!!!

******
22 February 2016
1
I had seen this movie compared to "The Shining" in reviews. Maybe
because they both had credits, were in color and were put on film, but
that is the only thing they have in common. The Shining is a
masterpiece of horror and suspense. This is just a piece of..well, I
digress.Other than the three "cheap scares", using overblown music and jump out
tactics, and the BAD rubber prosthetic makeup, there was no horror.
There was little suspense. There was a cheesy plot. There were
undefined conflicts. This was a historically accurate (Except for the
machine woven knit cap) piece that tried to be something it wasn't. It
missed across the board. And BORED is what I was.I do give high marks to the actors, that handled the archaic language
nuances and seemed to be in character, but a mediocre script, and a
lack of intensity/direction sunk this flick. My wife, a big horror
/paranormal movie fan, was disappointed as well.I should have known something was up when links to the
"preview/trailer" landed on the Director explaining how he tried to be
authentic to the time period. The three mildly scary parts were the
entire movie in a nutshell, so there was no need to spend $20 to see
it. Wait for it on Netfix and go see "Deadpool" again.

******
20 February 2016
4
Maybe my mistake was reading the reviews prior to seeing the movie
because I was really looking forward to an excellent psychological
horror drama. What I got was a kind of dull, slow moving, not-so-tense
film that was a good study of a family's descent into madness. The
first 10 minutes or so were very promising but then things slowed down
to a crawl. The movie isn't really so much about a witch but rather how
a family, in those times (and this is very important), dealt with
adversity, pain and most importantly, the presence of evil in their
home. I didn't find the movie scary but I did find it interesting. I
like stories about early America and this film paid respect to the time
with beautifully authentic costumes and language. It hardly mattered to
me that I really couldn't understand a great deal of the dialog. The
acting was so good that I was able to understand what was going on,
despite the difficulty understanding the words. The film was obviously
very low budget and you'll see this in some scenes but that's OK--the
cinematography was great and it didn't have that same feel that many
low budgets have, if you know what I mean. The acting of the main
characters was superb--mainly Thomasin and the mother and father. The
other kids were just OK. Finally, I didn't hear one positive remark
from other people as they left the theater. In fact, most said they
thought it was horrible. Guess it is that kind of movie--you either
will love it or think its so-so. There's a lot of good about the movie
(costumes, acting etc) to appreciate so it would be hard to hate it. It
won't be a fan favorite and will probably be out of theaters quickly if
word of mouth gets around, despite the great reviews.

******
20 February 2016
1
I went with my family we spent 24 dollars for 4 people,we expected that
we are paying for having a good time...This movie is being promoted as a horror film. You are being lied to.
There is nothing scary about this film.The movie have a good start, but then the movie turns into a long and
boring actions...to the people who are going to see the movie u
actually just gonna waste your time and money on something hard to
describe as a movie, does not worth a CENT,the end of the movie is so
bad that u gonna scratch your head,their accent was OMG u won't
understand what they're saying....the movie is just AWFUL 👺

******
19 February 2016
4
1692, Salem Village and environs, within England's newly-renamed
American colony, the Province of Massachusetts Bay. Political upheaval,
town and family rivalries, religious disagreements, constant fear of
Indian attacks, and some individuals' psychological and medical
conditions created a perfect New England storm that exploded into what
history calls the Salem Witch Trials. Based on unquestioned belief in
the Bible, these colonists believed in the literal existence of witches
and demons. Stemming from a lack of scientific knowledge, the Puritans
also ascribed many natural occurrences to God or the Devil, depending
on the prevailing opinions in their society. And, finally, the lack of
separation of church and state in Massachusetts Bay meant that their
government wrote and executed laws (and sometimes executed their
people) based on their religious principles. The result of all this was
a mass hysteria which occupied the colony's governmental apparatus and
legal system for over a year and led to the killing of 20 accused
witches. Now, having said all that, I have to tell you that "The Witch"
(R, 1:33) is not about the Salem Witch Trials. However, taking place in
the same general area 32 years before the witchcraft hysteria in and
around Salem Village, all the same elements play out in the life of one
Puritan family.William Nolastname (Ralph Ineson) is an extremely pious man, so pious
that the leaders of Massachusetts Bay invite him to take his family and
leave. (This is kind of like ISIS breaking away from Al Qaeda for not
being radical enough.) William happily packs up a horse-drawn cart and
takes his wife, Katherine (Kate Dickie), teenage daughter, Thomasin
(Anya Taylor-Joy), and son, Caleb (Harvey Scrimshaw), the younger
twins, Jonas and Mercy (Lucas Dawson and Ellie Grainger) and baby
Samuel even further out into the wilderness. They establish a homestead
in the shadow of a deep, dark forest, but, despite their fervent
prayers, things aren't going quite as well for them as they would've
hoped.Life is tough in colonial America and it's even tougher when you're a
day's ride away from anyone else. William's crops fail and the hunting
ain't so good either. Then, baby Samuel disappears. One moment he's
enjoying watching Thomasin playing peek-a-boo with him and the next,
he's just gone. The family assumes he was taken away by a wolf, but the
audience knows that the reality is even more frightening. As the family
members venture into those forbidding woods looking for answers (and
food), things go from bad to worse. Caleb disappears, family members
reveal uncomfortable secrets to each other and as their stresses and
insecurities build, serious accusations of witchcraft are tossed
around."The Witch" is a stylistically inventive cautionary tale, but is
lacking in basic entertainment value. The characters speak in Old
English (think: King James Version of the Bible) and with antiquated
British accents. This makes the dialog simultaneously interesting and
hard to decipher (although it does get easier as the movie progresses).
The acting is outstanding which, when combined with the small setting
and even smaller cast, gives a realistic, even voyeuristic feel to the
action. The plot, however, is intentionally un-realistic. First time
feature film writer-director Robert Eggers has based the dialogue on
actual official records and personal journals of the time period, and
his story, on popular folklore and superstitions of the day. The result
is a film that's original, but convoluted, and has open-ended plot
points that call to mind a more European style of filmmaking which many
Americans find frustrating. With a terrific cast and original (or at
least, unusual) tone and style, along with great educational value (in
understanding how something like the Salem Witch Trials could have
happened) and relevant lessons as they relate to the dangers of
religious extremism in the modern world, "The Witch" is just a little
too overwrought and unsatisfying for me to call it "entertaining" and
recommend it. "C+"

******
25 February 2016
10
The movie "The Witch" is based on stories about witches and devils that
have been circulating for over 400 years or so. The last name free
Puritan family of William (Ralph Ineson), wife Katherine (Kate Dickie),
daughters Thomasin (Anya Taylor-Joy) Mercy (Ellie Grainger), and sons,
Caleb (Harvey Scrimshaw), Mercy's twin, Jonas (Lucas Dawson) and infant
son Samuel are the main characters in this story.The story takes place in 1630, 10 years after the Mayflower landed in
Massachusetts. The family is incredibly zealous even by Puritan
standards and this doesn't set well with the community who kicks them
out. William is determined his family will not let the woods tear them
apart and the farm will be a thriving one. The life of the family literally goes to hell when baby Samuel vanishes
while Thomasin is watching him. The crops begin to die and the chickens
lay dead eggs and the goat gives blood instead of milk. The one animal
on the farm that gives the most grief is Black Philip. The twins claim
he talks to them and they also claim Thomasin is a witch. The only real witch in the story is the one who killed Samuel and who
seduced Caleb when the older boy went out for food for the family.
Caleb comes back naked and delirious. He is in hysterics in bed and
this wears out his heart and he dies. Mercy and Jonas don't help
matters either when they both collapse on the ground in hysterics as
well! In the end, the whole family except for Thomasin is killed. William is
gored to death by Black Philip while Katherine is killed by Thomasin in
self-defense. Katherine tried to strangle her daughter and Thomasin
stopped her. Black Philip is really the devil who set in motion all the
bad things that happened to the family. He has Thomasin sign the book
he has and leads her to the woods after she strips naked. Thomasin is
now apart of the coven of witches in the woods and in a weird way is
much happier now. Before everyone made her feel like she was a witch
and abnormal because she was a teenage girl struggling with puberty. This was a very interesting, scary movie about how a belief system can
turn people against each other. This family forgot about love and
acceptance all belief systems should have and the devil was able to get
a hold of them. All the characters were excellent with special mention
paid to Anya Taylor-Joy as the misunderstood Thomasin! Robert Eggers
really did his homework in regards to the language, clothing, and
religion of the time and it shows!

******
24 February 2016
9
In 2014, we have The Babadook. In 2015, we have It Follows. And so far
in 2016, we have ourselves another horror masterpiece, The Witch. First
time writer-director, Roger Eggers, has delivered a movie that is
soul-shaking, intensely disturbing, and gleefully Satanic enough that
will likely satisfy most horror fans who can tolerate slow-burn style
of movie. The Witch slowly builds its tension and thanks to its
terrific production, performance, and music, all of which fit perfectly
to create a dreadful tone and pressuring the audience the whole way
through.Like It Follows, the music in The Witch is just haunting and uneasy to
listen to and really plays a huge part in creating the eerie atmosphere
and tension effectively. The visual here is just as stunning and
compelling as well with a brilliant production and setting that makes
us feel like we are watching something we are not supposed to. While
the story-line is not as spectacular as other elements in the film but
it still manages to delivery the theme of faith and human nature
effectively enough through the talented performance from all the cast.
Even though this is a slow-burn horror film but it never gets boring as
there are always something interesting and captivating to look at and
the pacing here is just nicely flow with its tension rising up and down
throughout the whole film.The Witch doesn't rely on any cheap scares, like most modern horror
film did, or over-the-top gore to shock the audience but rather its
theme and concept that really creeps the hell out of them and delivers
a spine-chilling experience. The Witch succeeds in almost every aspect
in filmmaking giving horror fans an eerily rich and devilish experience
that's pleasantly disturbing throughout. It's excited to see what the
writer-director, Robert Eggers, has to offer in the near future as he
has proved with The Witch that there's still hope for a horror
filmmaking once again.>>A-<<

******
20 February 2016
10
One definition of the word 'Horror' is "Intense Repugnance" this film
is a perfect example.The Witch follows a family that's being torn apart by the acts of a
witch. This film doesn't have jump scares, nor lame cgi driven action.
It instead focuses on its story.The performances are brilliant. Everyone was FANTASTIC! This movie just
looks brilliant. So many shots look like they could be genuine works of
art.I'm not going to go on about being a cinephile though. Because this
movie can really appeal to all. The great dialogue and chilling audio
leave you feeling perpetually chilled. You can't sit comfortably
watching this.There are several shots that are quite disturbing but they aren't
overly gory or torturous. We don't get to see the Witch in the film
very much but when we do its awesome and unforgettable.I just can't recommend this movie enough!

******
20 February 2016
9
Back in the year 2000, I had the pleasure of seeing the director's cut
and re release of The Exorcist on the big screen at my local theatre.
This was such a thrill for me as I was not around in 1973 to see the
film when it was first released in theatres and now having a chance to
see not only one of my favourite horror films, but one of my favourite
films of all time on the big screen was an experience that I was to
savour and that was a great all around film experience for me. Overall
as I mentioned, seeing the film on the big screen in stereo sound and
with additional unseen footage was great. I also thought that being
able to see and experience the film with a then live audience full of
people who perhaps had never seen the film before as well as fans of it
probably who even saw it back in the 70's would be a real treat, but
unfortunately seeing it with a live audience was one of the drawbacks
of the film. All the then teenage viewers who were in the film audience
amongst me, were instead of being in fear, or absolutely captivated by
the film as they should have been, they were instead laughing and
mocking the film as if what they saw on the screen was one of the
funniest things they had ever seen. I was completely in disbelief and
truly was despairing of this generation of moviegoers, even if I
unfortunately fall into that same age group and demographic. I mention
this in this review of the new film, The Witch, because the exact same
thing happened to me while I was watching this film with a live
audience who typically fell in the teenage age bracket as well. People
were not only laughing and sneering at the film as if this was the
funniest film to come along in quite awhile, but they also mocked it,
were squirming in their chairs with boredom and countless times various
people of the audience would leave and then come back into the theatre
which each time caused the heavy theatre door to make a large slamming
sound as they would enter and then exit the theatre and this happened
frequently throughout the film. I think in both cases with The
Exorcist, and now with The Witch, both films are very good, but the
proof shows that they go beyond the typical maturity level of a teenage
audience and those who attended my screening. The Witch, is a smart
film with sparse and bare settings and backdrops that reminded me of
the European films of Bergman, Tarkovsky and even Lars Von Trier's last
few films in his depression type trilogy with Antichrist and
Melancholia being the main examples. The acting was all by people who
were relatively unknown to me as was the director and most of the crew
if I have to be honest about it, but their dedication and craft on this
film was excellent and this ended up being one of the most effective
and interesting horror films of recent years. There certainly were
moments in the film that were almost baffling, ludicrous and even hard
to understand at times, but I at least was so compelled and interested
by what was going on that even the more bizarre aspects of the film
were intriguing to me as opposed to being something that bothered me
about it. The film is getting rave reviews from critics and for good
and appropriate reasons because technically it is one of the best made
horror films from an artistic standpoint as well as any serious fan of
the genre can tell you how effective and thought provoking this
experience was. The people in my theatre like the people almost 16
years ago who laughed and mocked The Exorcist, are from a generation
who like their horror films violent and with loud, annoying and
sometimes just plain idiotic jump scares and stuff that most of us
would just avoid, or roll our eyes at if we saw. Too bad that all these
years later that today's teens are still enjoying the same old garbage
and are totally aloof to anything of any artistic merit such as the two
films in question. With time we will see how these films continue to
fair, but I have a suspicion that critics and horror fans will be on my
side and these teens will eventually grow up and their past tastes will
be left in the dust. Time will certainly tell.

******
20 February 2016
8
The Witch has been receiving a lot of buzz recently from horror fans
and Sundance Film Festival attendees. Writer/Director Roboert Eggers
even won the Best Director award at the festival. So does it live up to
what people are saying? Well yes, but you have to know what you're
getting in to. Knowing that this is a smaller indie film from Sundance
and that it isn't going to be your run of the mill, make-a- quick- buck
horror movie there is a lot of great stuff here.This film combines two things that I am not the biggest fan, period
pieces and horror, and, surprisingly, make them work. in his first
film, Eggers does a fantastic job and building and sustaining tension.
The atmosphere of the film never lets up making for suspense that
really gets under the skin in moments where it really counts.Furthermore, the actors were just as equally great as the direction, at
first, the older dialect was hard to follow and didn't feel very
natural. But after about ten minutes, the language flows better and
every thing becomes very believable. Going on with the believability,
everything in the landscape and surroundings felt as thought it fit the
time period. The film just pulls you into the time period where you
fell the struggles as the family does. There was a point where I had to
look around the theater to make sure that I was indeed not in Old
England.The one thing that might be off-putting to some will be that the story
isn't exactly about a witch versus a family. The story focuses much
more on the family aspect as we see every family member deal with grief
in their own ways as they sink deeper and deeper a psychological
trance. There aren't as many straight up "scares" as one might hope,
but there no doubt be times that make you jump and make you gut wrench.
The family struggle is the fuel that drives the story forward and it
makes for some great dramatic acting from adult and child actors alike. As for problems, there are a few, but none to detract from the tension
and drama that the film builds. The film is very gray and bleak, and at
some points, it can be a little overwhelming at times, where you wish
the color palette would liven up. To continue, there was a point where
I thought the mother character was a little one- note, but I just
assumed that it was her way of dealing with grief since she is
obviously the one that gets hits the hardest in family problems. The
ending can be polarizing to some, I wish there was a even a little more
ambiguity, but the way Eggers decided to end is sufficient enough. Lastly, a note must be made about the music and cinematography, both
add to the film wonderfully and enthrall the viewer into whatever
Eggers wants them to see.Overall, The Witch is a very good horror film, certainly a brilliant
start for Robert Eggers and easily a mark or two above the average
horror film that is released nowadays. The closest thing I can compare
this film to would be The Shining. So, just know what kind of film you
are getting in to and you won't leave disappointed. "Wouldst thou like to live deliciously?"

******
2 March 2016
1
I understand the film was not meant to be an action film, but it failed
at keeping my attention at many parts. I also fail to see how this was
a horror film at all. It was incredibly dull, which once again, I
understand it's not meant to be exciting and keeping you on the edge of
your seat, but this movie did a terrible job at being a calm film. It
was too calm. Secondly, the film killed off the characters too quickly and strangely.
It seemed as though the directors took too much time introducing their
family, and needed to hurry the plot up. The father, mother, and twins
all died within 5 minutes of each other in the film. By that point,
there was only 15 minutes left of the film anyways. The movie was eerie, but it was not scary. It didn't strike me as a
professional film either. It looked very college-level and amateur. I
do not recommend this film.

******
1 March 2016
1
I just returned from the theater.What was that?? That was not a horror movie. At best, that was a
psychological thriller. But really it was more of a drama.I wanted a horror movie and I get this? I feel like I was lied to. I do
not understand how this movie has such rave reviews and a comprehensive
score of 7.5. I have no explanation for this.Thoroughly disappointed. No jump scares. No gore. Not creepy, People
claim the tension alone categorizes this as a horror movie. That is a
ridiculous claim. Home alone also had tension at points. Just......wow.If your looking for a horror movie, look elsewhere. If your looking for
a drama about a crazy family that speaks olde English and you can't
understand anything they are saying, and quite frankly you don't care
to, then this is an Oscar winner.Just wow. I am remembering the directors name so that I can save myself
the burden of sitting through one of his stupid movies ever again. You've been warned.

******
23 February 2016
4
So lets start off with saying this movie will not appeal to everyone. I
saw it with my girlfriend who has become such a movie buff over the
last few years that she now enjoys movies for the subtle metaphors and
imagery where I still look for a great plot and close to flawless
story. Once the movie was over and we both had a couple of days to let
what we just witness marinate we both had two totally different
opinions. She on one hand enjoyed it, where I felt it was just Meh. She
liked it for the imagery, and bits of meaning behind certain scenes (I
want to keep this spoiler free so feel free to see the movie if you
want to understand what I might be referring to). I dozed off for a bit
in the middle of it, but even with what little I did miss I doubt it
would answer the question I left the theater with. Where I think many
will get lost or bored will be with the old English dialogue, and
constant references to religion which is needed since this is based in
the 1630's and God/Family/land is what people lived for. What made this
movie dull for me is that it seemed filled with useless dialogue. There
were parts that I liked, but everything leading up to them really did
not serve a purpose. I would have much rather have some back-story on
the family, the Witch, or even where they got that creepy Goat known as
Black Philip instead of just mumbled old English dialogue about god,
and the hardships this family is going though in the now. Give me some
story and some substance if you want to be considered a horror/mystery
movie. The only thing I can say I really enjoyed about this movie was
that there were scenes of suspense that could be considered chilling,
and they didn't need to use any cheesy jump scares. If you love the
horror genre I would say give it a shot, more so if you like to look
for meaning in movies. Call me what you will but I think "Lords or
Salem" portrayed the Witch culture/folklore better while giving a
creepy and unique story despite the horrible ending, but that is for
another review.

******
19 February 2016
10
The Witch renders the world described in Nathanial Hawthorne's Young
Goodman Brown and The Scarlet Letter as well as Arthur Miller's The
Crucible.  This is a film with roots in the great American literary
tradition with a twist that leaves the viewer wrestling with some
important questions, and like great literature it does a marvelous job
posing questions, providing differing view points, but ultimately
leaves the answering of the questions to the viewer. The Witch can be consumed as a ghost story and, as such, it is top
notch.  It has enough spine chilling moments and frightening images to
rank among the great horror movies.  If, however, one looks at the
metaphysical aspects of this tale, it is very much a warning of the
dangers of suppressing and subjugating the feminine in a society and
how this practice leads to destruction.  It also demonstrates the folly
of relying on belief over thinking.   This movie is literally dripping with symbols representing the
feminine, the givers of life:  teats, breasts, lactation, an egg, and
suckling young are featured throughout the film.  We also see the
damage that is being done to the feminine over the course of this
movie.  A babe at it's mothers bosom is lovingly shown at the start of
the movie and by the end we see that very same bosom being pecked apart
by a crow while the mother believes she is nursing her dead baby which
has inexplicably come back to life.  We see a hen's egg looking
diseased and when it is dropped a bloody half formed chick issues forth
from the egg.  The life sustaining goat milk which nourishes the family
sprays into the milking can as a stream of blood towards the end of the
movie.  In short, the movie is symbolically yelling at us that the
feminine is being snuffed out by this family environment.  The female
characters in play include Thomasin, the teenage daughter, Katherine,
the mother, and, of course, the title character herself, The Witch.  If femininity is under attack, it is under attack by the prideful,
faithful and incompetent males, most notably the father, William, and
the brother, Caleb. One feels for Katherine as both she and the
audience begin to understand that William is taking on challenges for
which he is clearly not equipped.  He is a stubborn man with a fool's
notion that with prayer and confession, God will provide and have mercy
in the wilderness.  William lacks honest, integrity and let's his
prideful theological musings be the catalyst for the family being
jettisoned into the wild.  Caleb admires his father and is working to
understand his religious dogma as well as the survival skills that
William cannot teach.  Additionally, William spends much of his time
chopping wood; the only survival activity he has mastered.  Perhaps
breaking apart organically structured forms is all he is really good
at. The female repression is most clearly illustrated with Thomasin.  She
is working hard to win her mother's approval and support her father's
dream even though she most clearly sees the hypocrisy and overall
weakness that her father represents. To add to Thomasin's mental
strain, we see Caleb straining to look down her shirt and the young
twins calling her a witch.  All of this comes to a breaking point when
Thomasin overhears that her father is planning on bringing her to town
to either marry her off or enlist her in to some type of indentured
service.  The forces at play have Thomasin near or beyond her mental breaking
point.  We also have The Witch who is shown in the opening scene
murdering the baby of family and rubbing the youthful renewing blood
all over her naked body under a bright moon.  The Witch hounds this
family and ultimately is their undoing.  She seduces young Caleb and
the power of their union leaves him naked, cold, and babbling
incoherently.  Caleb ultimately dies, but only after vomiting up an
apple which clearly symbolizes his sin and also evokes thoughts of the
original sin where the feminine was held solely responsible for getting
humanity kicked out of the garden of Eden.  Silly females, if only Adam
had been around to think through the devil's bargain for Eve things may
have gone very differently.  Perhaps Adam was busy napping, praying, or
chopping wood, who knows. After Caleb dies, things go equally badly for the rest of the family
until only Thomasin is left.  She meets the devil, signs his book, and
joins a coven of witches dancing naked in the woods.  This is a clever
twist on the old tales where we are led to believe this naked woodland
dancing is the fabrication of repressed school girls seeking to add a
little excitement to their lives. This movie holds blind belief and faith up as a poor strategy for
survival against knowledge and know how.  It's the mocking of believing
over thinking that provides a clue to the real events in this movie.
 The film is called The Witch and we come to believe and except that
this supernatural being exists. If we spend some time thinking though,
we see a much more clever ending - THERE IS NO WITCH!  Thomasin is the
murderer.William treats the women in his life badly, he demonstrates pride and
immaturity by leaving the safety of the village and he pays the
ultimate price for this folly.  If he had listened to his wife and
daughter and displayed a modicum of empathy for them, these events
never would have happened.  Sadly though, the story of the masculine
overpowering and ignoring the feminine is very much with us today, and
it is one we need to evolve past or we risk unleashing the destruction
symbolized in the character of The Witch.

******
18 February 2016
10
A cinematic achievement in horror. THE WITCH is superbly crafted.
Writer/director Robert Eggers has given us the perfect blend of
psychological and supernatural thrill that will terrify you to your
core. You'll never stop talking about THE WITCH long after it's done.A family in 1630s New England was banished from their settlement, and
so the couple and their five children are out living in the wilderness,
struggling to survive. Faith is the only thing that keeps them
together. But their newborn son mysteriously vanishes and their crops
fail, and the family begins to turn on one another, as they are torn
apart by the forces of witchcraft, black magic and possession.What's brilliant about THE WITCH, on top of its excellent attempt on
trying to be accurate to the period it portrays, is that it's very
different from any of the other horror movies we get out there. No jump
scares, no cheap gimmicks, no pointless plot. Everything is built up to
lead you to creepy and unnerving discomfort and much of it also reminds
me of dark paranoia thrillers of the '70s, where there are plenty of
suspicions and blame to go around. Writer/director Robert Eggers
successfully messes with his characters' and the audiences' minds. In
addition to that, great choice on using the olde English mixed with
excellent costume design and chilling cinematography, and young talent
Anya Taylor-Joy is a revelation, THE WITCH gives a unique and
refreshing take on this genre. It's frightening, it's terrifying, full
of twists and turns you don't see coming a mile away.

******
2 March 2016
1
I am a huge fan of movies in general. I own over 700 movies on
DVD/Blu-ray alone. I thought the trailer was pretty scary looking and I
was really looking forward to this movie. IT WAS HORRIBLE! I have seen
B rated movies that were better than this movie. I could barely
understand the dialog and the camera shots were atrocious. I went with
my sister and about an hour into the movie we were going to leave, but
we hoped that it might get better, so we waited. By the end of the
movie we looked at each other like "what did we just watch"? There was
a couple behind us who asked the same questions; we were so lost. There
was no suspense, no on the edge of your seat thrills. Save your money
or go see Deadpool. Now that was a movie worth seeing. I have no idea
how this movie got such great reviews and ratings. Someone must have
paid someone off or they all saw something totally different. I do not
know how it even made it to theaters.

******
20 February 2016
5
I don't know what to say other than why was this film made? Do you need
to be religious or actually believe in the existence of witches to have
any emotional buy-in? Since we find out early on there actually is a
witch, it kind of kills any ability to feel for the paranoia amongst
the family as to who among them is the evil one.There are repeated scenes of the father going out to chop wood and each
time the soundtrack would get ominous. These were the only tense points
in the movie for me because I thought he was going to have a bad swing
and cut off a body part. Alas, not to be.Had the cinematography and acting to be a much better movie but the
finished product was boring and pointless. "Best horror film of the
year"? Well, if you're scared by the sensation of boredom then they may
be on to something.

******
21 February 2016
3
I trusted the reviews on this one and, boy was that trust misplaced!!
The movie has a slow start and accelerates to a ho hum "are you serious
/that's it??" ending. Although technically well done, the minimal story
line doesn't do justice to the skill of the actors, director or crew;
We've got dead end segments of "why bother" scenes and then there's the
annoyingly low volume lines spoken too quietly and with heavy accents
to the point the film needs subtitles. Not a scary film if you're and
adult, but there are a couple of unexpected scenes that may startle a
person of any age. Those very rare scenes are well done, but way too
few. Finally, there's the curious, and repeated incestuous stare by
little brother character to his big sister's cleavage. Big Sis, played
by young hottie Anya Taylor-Joy, makes the film a must see for any
dirty old sinner male or female and sadly, that's about the only
reason to see "The Witch"

******
19 February 2016
5
The Witch is one of those films where heading into the movie you sort
of need to know what you are getting into. This IS NOT a movie about a
witch, it's about a family's faith being tested and the fallout that
follows...all the while a witch lurks in the woods nearby.The Witch is being touted as a movie with pure, unrelenting dread.
While that is the case at times, the atmosphere dwindles during the
many times the characters repent. And they repent an awful, awful lot.
I understand that the movie is about a family's faith being torn apart
from within, but the movie's 'entertainment value' dips during some of
those scenes. The tension is killed the moment they start bickering and
doubting one another. It's just as one might expect, however, the Devil
(evil) is a whisper in your ear which creates doubt with one's faith.
And that is just what The Witch is, it's a whisper of evil. There are swift, small build ups that tease there is evil afoot, but
just when you expect something sinister to occur, nothing. The hare,
the goat, the raven (all heavy symbolism of Satanism) are all present.
But they are used ineffectively half the time that they feel like
child's play (literally at times) rather than signs of their
forthcoming damnation.I really wanted to like this movie more than I actually did and that's
a pity. A case can be made that the hype got the best of me, but I was
just as hyped (if not more) for It Follows and The Babadook and those
two turned out to be some of the best horror movies of the decade. The
Witch did have moments of tension and trepidation, but when the time
came for the payoff it simply wasn't sufficient enough to justify the
many teases of evil.

******
19 February 2016
9
I'm a horror junkie so I'm an expert at managing my expectations. I go
in not expecting much. I'm very pleased to say The Witch is one of the
best horror movies I've seen in the last 10 years. It has a smart
script, a great cast and a creepy score.The film centers on a pilgrim family whose religious fanaticism gets
them thrown out of a colony and forced to live in the woods nearby.
Shortly after settling, the youngest goes missing while under the
charge of Thomasin, the eldest daughter. The family quickly implodes.The director is in no hurry to rush this story. Patient horror fans
will love it.

******
20 February 2016
1
The only thing scary about this film is that you have to pay to see it.
I was truly disappointed and feel Walt Disney could have done a better
job with it. The accents of the actors was very hard to understand at
times and you had to really try to listen to what it was they were
saying. The costumes and scenes were good as they did portray that era
and what it would be like to be living in those conditions and times.
The movie did try to be a scary thriller, as some critics stated it was
supposed to be, but only with a couple of scenes (two or three). After
a while the film got to the point of where it became boring as you
waited and waited for something to scare you or make it worth while to
see. Finally, the ending came and you sit there in disbelief thinking
on the money and time you wasted.

******
19 February 2016
3
I gave this 3 stars. 2 of which were for the child actors, who did a
pretty good job. The movie was shot well and that's about it. Character
development was poor at best. There were a few jump scares but nothing
noteworthy. It had an overall depressing feel to the film. It seems to
have been marketed as a true horror movie. I couldn't call it a
creature feature, or a psychological thriller. Its not a docu-drama,
but seems to try to be all these things without achieving any of them.
About halfway through the film, people in the theater were bored and
talking to each other, completely uninterested in the screen and what
was (or wasn't) happening. When the credits started rolling, I was
happy it was over because was ready to leave and hour before.

******
23 February 2016
5
This movie was disjointed and disappointing. The existence of the
"witch of the woods" was given away too early. Seriously, there was no
mystery at all after about 8 minutes. Opportunities to expound upon sex
roles (primarily suspicion of women) and religion were missed. The
final scene was absolutely ridiculous and unnecessary (inapt
comparisons to The Shining and other movies be damned) and the final
7-10 seconds of nothing but a black screen, repeating a theme that led
the audience to expect more, was intellectually insulting. The score
was often times inexplicable (dramatic music accompanying long shots of
the forest from afar). Also, there isn't any consistent underlying
point to the story. Most importantly, primarily as the result of the
early reveal, it just wasn't scary at all.That's the bad stuff. There is also good stuff. The acting was first
rate, especially the children - specifically Thomasin and Caleb. The
costumes, sets and scenery were excellent. The depiction of 1630
America and the people was entirely believable and well executed. In
spite of the previously mentioned flaws, the director did a reasonably
good job of ratcheting suspense and manufacturing dread.To me this was a period piece about an unprepared family led by a less
than competent husband under duress. There was also a poorly managed
side story about a witch who quite literally lives in the woods,
communicates with Satan and feels the bizarre need to mess with
people's livestock and sacrifice babies. That last scene. Seriously. I
have yet to read a sound justification for it that I can believe. What
was the point?

******
22 February 2016
5
William and his family have to find a place to live after they are
banished by the elders, and find a spot in the New England wilderness
at the edge of a forest. Little do they know that the forest is
inhabited by a witch (what are the odds, huh?). Anyway, strange things
happen in and around the farm. Since they are Puritans they can't
figure out what could be wrong, since they are extremely religious and
obey God's commandments. So they search for an answer."The Witch" is well acted and pays great attention to detail, and to
outward appearances recreates life on an early 17th century farm. The
family's speech is sprinkled with 'thee's' and 'thou's', and, although
the film is in color, it is washed out to lend the feeling of austerity
and adds to the bleakness of the landscape. I thought Kate Dickie, who
plays the mother of the piece was outstanding. Not sure if they give
Oscar noms to actors in indies of this type, but if so, she would
qualify. I also wonder if life on a 17th century farm was as lethargic
as depicted here."The Witch" is more of a melodrama than a horror film but there are a
few scary moments. Speaking for myself, I get tired of trying to
connect the dots of this type of movie, where you must chalk up natural
aberrations and illogical circumstances to The Supernatural. The
picture contains the usual defiance of reason which has no explanation
except whatever you assign to it. And so you make a colossal effort to
suspend your disbelief to make it all work. This is the second horror
movie in a row for me, having seen "Southbound" last week. "The Witch"
has better production values but "Southbound" was more entertaining and
moved at a quicker pace.

******
21 February 2016
10
The Witch has made me unnerved and scared in a way that I haven't been
scared in a very long time. It's not a crippling fear, nor is it a
jumpy fear but a fear that will make you squirm in your seat. This
movie has a undertone that I can only describe as being "incredibly
uncomfortable". Robert Eggers found a way to take the once campy and
silly Halloween decoration that is the witch and make her feel real and
terrifying. 17th century dialect helps you stay grounded and adds to
the realism that this movie goes after. I give this movie a 10/10, this
movie is important for independent filmmaking and artistic integrity.
Please go and support a great movie made by talented people.

******
21 February 2016
9
Witches in the 1630s were not 2016 modern gaia loving pagans who
worship the earth. Witches *from a 1630s Puritan perspective* made
pacts with the devil, drank blood, cursed and killed and this type of
hysteria & paranoia is the premises of this film. It's a slow to burn,
cerebral movie like The Shining, or Suspiria. But in this day and age
of stimulation overload, and film goers who laugh at jerking off jokes,
The Vvitch will no doubt be reviewed by some as "boring"..sorry, there
are no jump scares, no stupid one liners, this movie makes you think
and feel everything. This piece of art was absolutely dark, unnerving,
extremely disturbing and completely amazing. It is fantastically made
and beautifully executed right down to the soundtrack which is every
bit unsettling, containing no more than single string and faint wailing
noises. This is the type of horror movie I've been waiting a very long
time to see.

******
22 February 2016
5
Hood Review: VVitch (The Witch).Quick Hits:The Goat is the best actor. Bible Thumping Lots of it. Not a scary
movie.The R rating got my dander up for this one. That rating mixed with the
spooky trailers had me hopeful. But 'The Witch' under delivered in just
about every category. The trailer basically is scarier than the movie.
There were some disturbing moments and couple jumpy parts. But outside
of that, it is just not a scary, not even a little bit. I'd categorize
this as more a drama sprinkled with suspense. Then add a dash of WTF,
and a splash uneasiness moments and you have a Wrong Island Iced Tea.
What it did capture very well is one family's struggles and how evil
was able to divide their family bond and conquer the family unit by
preying on their weaknesses and the weakened bond. Witches had an
incredible amount of bible thumping going on, but being the story took
place in the 1630s it seemed appropriate. So get ready to hear a bunch
of "thou", "thee" and "hither" type speak and ton of biblical type
scenes and references. A few times it took my brain a few seconds lag
to decipher what was being said. This film did manage to keep an air of
mystery, creepiness and interest through out the movie. The finer
points were probably the direction and cinematography. I also get the
feeling we could have did without seeing the Witch at all. The random,
sporadic appearances of the actual witch did little to add value to
this flick. The acting was so-so. That R-rating though. Them sneaky
jerks. They snuck one in on me. How they managed that R- rating was by
adding a couple lightly gory shots and a bizarre scene were a bunch of
chicks were randomly twerking in the woods and chanting while naked.
Outside of that this coulda been rated PG-13.All in all, this was actually a good movie. But for all the wrong
reasons, it's a blatant case of false advertising. If you like
thrillers/suspense this would be a good one to check out. But horror
and scary you are looking for? Move along, there is nothing to see
here And for that I am giving The Witch 2.5 EBTs.

******
21 February 2016
4
A family undergoing trial is now sentenced to leave the community they
once lived in. Now they've managed to build a new life away from
civilization, and in the middle of nowhere; conveniently by the woods
where a witch lives. Before even getting into the negatives, I must
list the positives. First off, the settler take of which this movie
takes was unique. The old scenery, the speech the characters deliver,
all of it was solidly executed into a believable, smooth film that held
its grip. Moving on; throughout this film there was unbelievable
suspense here, and there. There were parts / occurrences that had the
audience sitting, awaiting in complete tension. The film solidly
executed scenes that were completely unnerving, and just plain creepy,
scenes that just added pure tension, and an overall factor to where you
just can't take your eyes from what's happening. The film succeeded in
those elements for sure, creepiness, with overall solid execution on
many levels. HOWEVER - Here comes the downfall. First off.. I know
horror films build up to scenes, and occurrences that'll pay off.. but
man, of man. There's such thing as TOO much build up.. this film
dragged, it truly did. It's one of those horror movies that put their
work piece, by piece. One moment it's the family boringly bickering,
and saying their beliefs, and others the family got into interesting
scenes to where the witch herself actually came in. It seemed to
completely, and overly drag, getting to the point where it was just
flat out boring, of which takes away tension, and high expectations!
Another factor of this movie was it's silence. There were parts of the
film to where no matter how quiet the audience was, misconceptions were
given from the dialogue, and overall speech. The movie had many, many
parts in time to where there was no sound, other than the characters
speech, and talking. Even with that, it was, at times, difficult to
hear just what they were saying, making it a bit difficult to
completely follow through. The film also had a major problem, in my
opinion; overall, there was no real message. Trust me when I say this -
I was focused on the film. I sat for an hour just collecting thoughts
after the screening, I also had my eyes glued to the screen the entire
length of the film, listening to whatever I can gather. No matter what
I've collected, there truly seems to be no message delivered. Each
family member seemed to of made a mistake - leading to the interest of
the witch, but the around final acts of this film ( Which of course
won't be spoiled ) it makes an execution that doesn't seem to make
sense, or in this case deliver a final message, a message of which
every horror film should deliver to the audience, whether it be a
twist, or straightforward, whatever; point being this film didn't carry
that out clearly. Finally, the payoff itself - the final act. Of
course, again, without spoiling anything I say this; once again, it
didn't make much sense, and even with that it was disappointing. The
ending just threw this entire film off the rails, for me, personally.
Despite the pro's the film offered, apposed to the con's, it just
flattened it, the payoff was no good. In conclusion; in case this was confusing - as this film is hard enough
to collect for a review. This film had a good, solid creepy, and
unnerving feel to it. The cinematography, scenery, and overall
full-length eye-candy was beautiful, at the same time creepy. I also
understand this is a physiological film - however thinking this entire
thing over from start, to finish, I feel as if the entirety of
execution given didn't make the cut, delivering no real point across
the line. Aside the creepiness of this entire film, what could've been
an amazing horror film was executed the utter, and complete wrong way,
at least for me. This entire film could've been so, so much better..
but in the end didn't fulfill its whole execution, instead falling
flat, and going as far as to being disappointing. Is it unique? Yes. Is
it hype worthy? No. This horror film was far, far too over-hyped, and
overall came off as disappointing, going under what it could've been.

******
21 February 2016
5
I'd never before in my life heard people in a movie theater boo after
seeing a movie, until today. The place was packed, and people kept
piling in after the trailers had started, so I thought perhaps the
word-of-mouth was pretty good, and that it boded well for a positive
movie-going experience. I'd heard it was slow going, which wasn't a
problem, as sometimes, you need more time and measured pacing to set up
a good story, but wasn't the issue at all.It was like watching The Blair Witch all over again. An hour and a half
of ridiculously overblown drama capped off by nothing happening until
the last few minutes. At no point during the whole affair was I
horrified, unsettled or disturbed by what I was seeing, nor was I
impressed by what I was seeing on the screen. I admit to jumping once,
after the father was gored by the goat, but honestly, much like the
Spanish Inquisition, no one expects a goat to suddenly come at you.It just seemed like such a waste. The acting was top notch, both the
children and the adults, who all beautifully portrayed the severity of
their situations. The cinematography was stark, yet gorgeous, and the
premise alone was enticing enough to make me plunk down money for a
ticket. But the metaphor of earthly woes being blamed on God's
judgment/punishment and witchcraft fell absolutely flat, as did the
drama of family turning on one another when the chips are down -even in
this time period when superstition was high and such things were a
common occurrence. By the end, the plot had made no sense and even when
something finally "happened", the journey was not worth the
destination.After the round of booing and the lights had come up, as the audience
piled out, I heard declarations of how stupid the movie was and how
disappointed people were, and I couldn't have agreed with them more.
What a complete and utter waste of what was, on its face, a compelling
premise. It's rare for me to walk out of a movie theater feeling
cheated of my money, but honestly, that's exactly what I felt.

******
21 February 2016
3
I was totally disappointed by "The Witch". I think it's pretty safe to
say this movie is the biggest ripoff/letdown of the year! Why? The
movie is slow, boring, and adds nothing new to the theme of witchcraft
among New England pilgrims. The story revolves around a dysfunctional
family that's constantly fighting, and a witch in the woods that barely
shows up. When she does show up, she resorts to the usual tricks we've
all seen thousands of times before and which therefore leave us cold.To make matters worse, the protagonists speak with thick accents that
are an awful mixture of cockney and archaic English and are very hard
to understand for Americans. My friends and I couldn't understand at
least 40-50% of the dialogs (especially the mother and father's) and so
we missed a lot of details.Getting back to the movie, the underlying theme seems to be "evil
prevails over good" and "don't expect your Christian faith to save you
from the devil". Well, tell us something we don't already know and
haven't seen portrayed in movies at least a hundred times! Other than
that, not much else happening in this so-called horror. So, I ask, was
is the point of this movie? The answer is easy: none.Friendly advice: save your time and money and don't pay to watch this
mediocre movie on witches. Do the smart thing (unlike us) and wait till
the movie is available on netflix before watching it, if you are
determined to waste 90 minutes of your life.

******
19 February 2016
4
I saw "The Witch", starring Anya Taylor-Joy-Atlantis_tv, Vampire
Academy; Ralph Ineson-Guardians of the Galaxy, Game of Thrones_tv; Kate
Dickie-Game of Thrones_tv, Prometheus and Bathsheba Garnett-P2, Mean
Girls.I heard a little bit about this movie, before I saw it; that it was a
small budget independent horror film with some really good scares. Not
so. It's not very scary at all, more on the weird side than anything
and it is very slow paced. Ralph and Kate are the devout Christians in
1630's New England that are forced to leave the colonial American
settlement they have been living in with their 5 kids-I did not really
understand the reason why they had to leave-and find a new home, away
from everyone. After building a new house in the middle of nowhere,
Ralph and Kate let Anya, the oldest daughter of the 5 kids, watch her
baby brother in a clearing near the edge of the forest. Unbeknown to
the family, Bathsheba is their neighbor and she performs strange black
magic witchcraft during the night. Her latest ritual calls for a baby
and Bathsheba decides it won't be a big deal if she was to just pop
over and borrow a cup of baby. That is when the whole family starts
acting strange and accusing each other of being witches, their animals
start acting weird and their crops suddenly go bad. I read that the
director used real transcripts from this time period to make the
dialogue sound authentic but I had problems sometimes just
understanding them, you know, with the thick English accents. As far as
the set pieces and the look of the movie itself, they did do a good job
on that. It's rated "R" for violence and sexual content-including
nudity-and has a running time of 1 hour & 32 minutes. I would not buy
this on DVD. I would not rent it on DVD, either, if I were you. If you
really want to see it, you should wait until it comes to cable.

******
20 February 2016
1
Probably doesn't have spoilers but I don't know what counts as one.
This is the absolute worst movie I have ever seen. I don't throw that
around lightly because I like to see the better side of bad movies.
Sadly the movie was poor from start to finish. The opening scene gave
very little information and any revisiting of the topic later on gave
even less information. The oldest boy was nearly impossible to
understand but the rest of the cast was not much better. The amount of
screen time for The Witch was seriously laughable. The baby got more
screen time. The scariest part was sadly the bunny. The ending was just
plain confusing and made no improvement to the already boring plot. I
will make sure everyone I know knows how awful this movie was. I don't
want anymore people misled by a great looking trailer to waste their
hard earned money on such boring trash.

******
19 February 2016
8
"The Witch" (2015 release; 93 min.) brings the story of a 17th century
family in New England. As the movie opens, we see the husband of the
family at trial, due to religious disagreements, and the man and his
family (his wife and 4 kids) are forced to leave the plantation and
start life anew. Some time (a year?) later, we see the family having
built a house and working the land in a far off place. Thomasin, the
oldest daughter, goes out near the woods and plays peekaboo with the
newest addition to the family, a baby boy. Then after another peekaboo,
when she opens her eyes, the baby is gone. She frantically goes looking
for the baby in the woods. At this point we are about 10 min. into the
movie, but to tell you more would spoil your viewing experience, you'll
just have to see for yourself how it all plays out.Couple of comments: this is the debut film of writer-director Robert
Eggers, and what a debut it is! In the opening credits, we see that the
movie's full title is actually "The Witch - A New England Folk Tale".
The movie is billed as a 'horror' film, but if you are expecting a
slasher movie or something explicit like The Exorcist, you will surely
be disappointed. Think of "The Witch" more in terms of the Stanley
Kubrick film "The Shining", also termed a 'horror' movie but in reality
more a psychological family drama. Even though they are completely
different movies, the parallels are uncanny: the isolation, the gradual
breakdown of the family, and the ultimate insanity of it all. Newcomer
Anya Taylor-Joy is sensational as Thomasin, but truth be told, so are
Kate Dickie as the mother and Ralph Ineson as the father. BEWARE: the
movie is spoken in 17th century English ("thee", "thy mother", etc.)
and I must admit that quite a bit of the dialogue flew straight over my
head, I just could not grasp it (English not being my native tongue may
be a factor, although I have lived in the US for 30+ years--I'd be
interested in anyone else's perspective on this). Even with that
'complaint', I found this to be quite an amazing movie, furthermore so
considering this was made on a nickel and a dime."The Witch" premiered at the 2015 Sundance Festival and made a huge
splash. I've been waiting to see it since. Not sure why it's taken more
than a year to finally get a release in theaters, but better late than
never I suppose. The screening I saw this at on the Friday evening of
the movie's opening weekend was attended okay but not nearly as well as
I had anticipated. Couldn't help but notice that a group of about 4-5
people left the theater midway through, and didn't return. I'm afraid
that there was a gap between their expectations of this movie and what
the movie really is. Yes, it is a 'horror' movie, in the same way that
"The Shining" is a 'horror' movie, but it is so much more than that. If
you are in the mood for an outstanding original tale of one 17th
century family's descent into insanity, you cannot go wrong with this,
be it in the theater, on VOD, or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray. "The Witch"
is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!

******
2 March 2016
1
Possibly one of the worst films I've seen...for sure so far in 2016.
I'm really not going to say more than that because that would be giving
it more of my time that it already took from me that i will never get
back.Oh wait, I have to write a few more lines for this to be posted. So I
will tell you that pretty much go see any film but this one and you
will get your money's worth..but don't lose out on the 2hrs of your
life that I just did.. Just know I did..and trying to fill up the
requirements just to get it posted..so I can tell you once again..don't
pay money to see this film.. Just don't.

******
19 February 2016
9
It would be a challenge for any movie to live up to the hype that The
Witch has gotten since its Sundance debut last year, but wow, what a
gorgeous film. The craftsmanship is beyond impressive. Every shot could
have been an art photograph. All of the sets and costumes and props
were so painstakingly period accurate that the world of this film felt
viscerally real. The oppressive tone never lifted for the entire run
time so that you leave the theater still feeling a bit weird.The Witch reminds me strongly of "The Others". Much of the creepiness
was drawn from the set and the location. The pacing is similar. Both
have super small casts and center the action around child actors.
There's very little blood and gore. If you hated "The Others" and
thought it was boring, then "The Witch" is not for you. It's not the
typical Hollywood horror "scare-a-minute" CGI romp. There's no break in
the tension for a comedic relief. It goes to a very dark place right
from the start and never shifts that tone.The dialogue can be difficult to follow. It's much more similar to a
Shakespearean play than standard issue Period Piece English. I could
understand them with some effort, and it made the world of the movie
feel that much more real, but some might be turned off by it,
especially since the film is so dialogue-heavy.All of the acting performances were top notch. The Twins were creepy
and every one of their scenes made my stomach turn. I appreciated that
the plot didn't hinge on "horror movie logic". Really, the only
complaint I have is that I don't know if I quite buy the ending.
Definitely looking forward to seeing this one again, and I hope it
makes money because I want to see more smart horror with fewer terrible
looking monsters and more filmmaking craftsmanship.

******
20 February 2016
1
I saw it last year at a festival and disliked it heavily. I found the
movie to have no scares and scant dread for that matter. The reason
being? I couldn't get past the ridiculous heavy-handedness of the
ridiculous themes that the movie addresses. I found myself confused as
to what the final bit of the movie did to garner such shock and awe, as
I found it to be rather stupid and intelligence-insulting. Also - there
was NO HORROR! Common to modern garbage filmes, it was another drama
posing as a horror movie. You're better off spending your money on superior offerings: The
Village, Blair Witch Project, Antichrist, the original Wicker Man..
even Kill List. I'm sure there are others!Indie movie offerings largely turn out to be disappointments, and this
was another example.

******
23 February 2016
1
If you get the urge to go see a movie, let me tell you about the one I
saw last night. The Witch... What can be said about this movie? The
preview had a better plot. Yes the plot of the movie is different then
the preview. It was so long and drawn out, that at times I wasn't sure
if it was ending, or if it was actually going to go somewhere. The plot
twists and foreshadowing music leads you to believe that it's going to
come to a climax, and you start to look forward to something
interesting, but then the screen goes black, and they cut to a new
scene of the same drawn out garbage. It's listed as a Horror. But the
only horror out of this documentary was the fact that someone invested
actual money into it's making. The climax came before the movie
started, because you are expecting to be scared out of your mind, the
rest is a lecture of religion, like sitting through a 10 hour long
catholic mass. No offence to Catholics, but your sermons are not really
known for there zest for life. The end of the movie plays out beyond
prediction, as if you can tell the director simply gave up on the film
and had to make some kind of conclusion, and it makes about as much
sense as wearing a winter coat to the beach in July and about as
exciting. ... In short, if you want to go see a movie, and your
thinking about watching this one...... Don't. Go to Walmart and look at
what people are wearing. Trust me, that was actually more interesting
and scary.

******
20 February 2016
1
This movie was inadequate in every form. Don't waste your time and
money. To start off, this is not a horror film. Anyone who says it is,
obviously grew up watching dragon tails. This movie sucks. Second, if
you don't know how to understand 16th century English then don't waste
you time. This movie sucks. The only terrifying part of this whole
movie was when the " witch " slays the baby. This movie sucks. I HAD to
give this movie rating of 1 star because I couldn't give it anything
less. THIS MOVIE SUCKS and if this is the new horror genre for 2016
then I'm disowning horror movies. This movie sucks. It sucks. It sucks.
It sucks.

******
22 February 2016
1
This movie was a jumbled mess. The movie seemed as if they collected
several folktales and forced them into one long and incoherent story. I
went to see this movie with two other highly intelligent people
(IQ>130) and we did not get the movie. It is not artistic, it is
painfully boring. It is one of those movies that you keep waiting for
something good to happen, and it never does. I was excited when I had
to take a restroom break in the middle of the movie, if that tells you
anything. At the end of the movie, I looked at my friend and said "I
told you we should have seen Deadpool." The audience, all in agreement,
said "No Kidding!" Not one person left the theater happy that they saw
it, save yourself and avoid this train wreck.

******
21 February 2016
1
I am not sure why this movie is getting such great reviews. It was
entirely boring, mostly unintelligible, and not scary in the least. I
get that it is set in 17th century New England, but the "This thou
musteth come hither from yonder" made it impossible to follow. It is
also painfully slow. There were so many times that it seemed to be
building to something exciting, only to go completely nowhere. I so
wanted to leave early, but just had to wait till the bitter end to see
if there was a payoff. No such luck. No horror. No excitement. There
was even one point towards the end of the film where the screen goes
black for several seconds and I was hoping and praying it was over. It
wasn't. The best part of the experience was when the credits started to
roll. As soon as the credits started to roll, a woman in the audience
said very loudly, "are you serious?". Priceless.

******
20 February 2016
1
First, the entire movie is spoken in early English, so you really have
to pay attention to what is being said. The movie opens to the family
being banished from "The Plantation" for some unknown reason. Setting
out into the wilderness, they find a plot of land and begin to farm.
First, the new baby is gone (it shows a witch preparing to sacrifice
the baby and then using it's blood to make herself young). Crops won't
grow, bread won't rise, animal milk turns to blood. The son Caleb and
his sister Thomasena go to find help, but are separated in the woods,
and Caleb is molested by a witch. The family frantically looks for him
and he appears naked in the yard, under the spell of a witch. He ends
up dying, the young twin children accuse Thomasena of being a witch,
she accuses the twins of being witches and the father locks them all in
the barn. That night, the witch comes to the barn and destroys it,
taking the twins. The father is sure Thomesena is a witch, but before
he can do anything, he's killed by the goat. The mother tries to kill
Thomasa, who kills her mother in self defense. Then Thomasena calls on
"Black Phillip" and joins witches dancing naked in a circle. When the
movie ended, almost everyone in the theater was talking about how
horrible this movie was.

******
20 February 2016
1
Not much to say except, do not waste your time and money on this film.
I was looking forward to a nice scary movie...it was not this one! It
was difficult to understand the language at times, and cut to a blank
screen on several occasions leaving you to wonder and hoping that it is
finally over. The scenery was even dull and the setting was dark. they
should have developed the witch more..it leaves you not really knowing
anything about the witch even at the end where most movies at least
bring it all together to make some sort of sense...not this movie.
Although this movie certainly was boring, poorly filmed and a very weak
story line. The worst movie I have ever seen!! I can't repeat it
enough, seriously folks.

******
19 February 2016
1
Please. Please. If you want to save your money and two hours of your
life, don't see this film... I'm a horror enthusiast and this was not
horror at all. The first 10 minutes you feel like it has potential and
than absolutely nothing happens from then on. The film needs sub titles
because you can literally probably understand about 15%-20% of what
they are saying. I have no idea who would rate this film as being good.
If you're a critic and thought this was a good film you should probably
reconsider your profession. Atrocious film that should of been made
exclusively for Netflix. Don't waste your money or time on this film
you'll regret it!

******
19 February 2016
10
Sometimes you can't believe what you're seeing in a cineplex that will
more than likely only show the latest from the major studios. A film
like The Witch or most other films from the studio A24 - mostly (if not
all) done independently and then picked up for distribution - such as
Under the Skin or Springbreakers, would normally be relegated to some
art-house theater where not many people could see it. But unlike some
distributors who think in only day-and-date theatrical/VOD (or just VOD
only), A24 puts something like The Witch as basically a mainstream
release (needless to say I saw the trailer for months, many times, in
front of big horror and other releases). But I love that a film that
goes for being all about simply scaring you by its brooding imagery,
period dialog and actors who you won't know unless you have every cast
member of Game of Thrones memorized (hint, it's the parents), gets to
be seen by so many people. It's not about silly jump scares or
characters who are idiots... well, not in the sense of the usual
teenagers, but let's get to what I mean.This is all about witchcraft, but it's also not the simple 'riding
around on broomsticks' shenanigans or anything that comes close to
being jokey. Filmmaker Robert Eggers (which is all the more astonishing
as it's the director's *debut*) suffuses his actors and crew into a
setting that is unmistakably 17th century New England, and it's from
here everything else can be conjured up. His story follows a family of
Puritans from England who are cast out from their community (we don't
know why, no real need to, except that the father and mother are, to
say the least, very religious, even for the Puritans!) They set up a
farm and are preparing for a long season until they can grow their
crops. They have a bunch of kids, an teenage daughter, an adolescent
boy, two twins and a baby. Right at the start the baby is taken by...
who? What? Sometimes having some ambiguity can work in a film's favor to make the
horror from the story and place even more potent. There's not too much
ambiguity with The Witch (unless someone wants to warp around things to
their liking, or found something I don't know), and it's clear: there
is some real heavy-duty black magic going on in the nearby woods, and
whether the spirits (in human and animal form) come to the family
because they're religious or just because they're evil beings that like
to slather themselves with blood is a little more open to
interpretation. And in less confident hands it could have become
schlocky or unconvincing, set in a period so that either monotonous
imagery could unfold (it could have easily been a too-hard-to-take pace
wise effort) or all about the special gore effects.Eggers finds the sweet middle ground, and creates a portrait of a
family undone by their own religious fervor, while also being true to
what were, at the time, historical accounts of witchcraft. Whether
those carried much creedence, Eggers doesn't care - he commits to
showing these woods and showing something like a goat or even an apple
as something deathly serious, and yet loaded with significance. He
doesn't move the camera around like crazy, and of course he doesn't
need or should have to: the production design is among the greatest in
any horror film, not to mention the certain color palette that he and
DP Blaschke give to every shot so that it's like the world is drained
of color - grays are even grayer, browns dirtier, and blacks somehow
much blacker. It's a serious, darkly directed film, but there's always
an intensity about it that doesn't make it ponderous to a point that
takes one out of the movie.A large part to why the film is so effective and chilling is the
acting. The main adults (Ineson and Dickie, rarely below a 10
emotionally speaking, though Dickie has the trickier role as the one
who has to try, up to a point, to keep his wits about him) are very
strong here, both playing variations on God-petrified mortals, but the
movie for me really belongs to Anya Taylor-Joy (her first major movie
role, expect to see her in many things to come) and Scrimshaw as Caleb.For the former, she has to carry many scenes all based on why she is a
trustworthy person, and she sells it, while for the latter, this boy,
it's a role that needs someone to play the period dialog (which is only
occasionally obfuscated by the accents) and having to be genuinely
scared to death when faced with the evils in the woods. When you have
characters who are both "simple" folk of the Lord while also being
capable of being twisted by the same dark forces they can't escape, you
need people to sell it. They all do, to lengths not unlike out of
Polanski at his fiercest.So combine a filmmaker who wants to make Dread with a capital D his
priority, a setting and location and things like just a barn or a door
that feel eerie and ominous, and actors who dig in to characters who
could very well destroy one another due to their fears (except for
Thomasin), and you got a unique genre piece that works just as well as
drama as horror, if not better.

******
21 February 2016
1
I must say never in my life have I ever wanted to truly cry about how
terrible a movie was. I wasted my time and money on a movie that had me
wondering "why the hell am I watching this?" I don't think these
reviews make any sense because "The witch" was not scary or
entertaining at all. I watched this movie after reading these reviews
thinking it must be good, but NO it was beyond terrible. I made this
account specifically to write a review for this movie and warn people
that it was TERRIBLE! Everyone in the theaters felt the same way
considering the fact that we all left the theaters laughing about how
our time was wasted and confused wondering what the hell we just
watched. The highlight of the movie was when I lost my phone for a
minute and spazzed out looking for it. That was the scariest part of
the movie. I really don't understand who rated this movie as scary
because if anything it was disgusting because of the old naked lady.

******
19 February 2016
1
Torture to watch for its bleakness. I covered my eyes in an early
scene. Too much of it is tied to winter. A story about a witch should
be sufficient without being tied so closely to "winter's coming."
Winter comes annually. Witches mercifully not so much. The young lead
actress, Anya Taylor-Joy is terrific. Hopefully a breakout role for
her. Actually, all of the young actors are well cast. The 17th century
"yeoman farmer" English country dialect is often difficult for an
American ear to follow. The movie is a kettle on slow boil. Tough
watching a kettle boil. I was not sure where they were going with the
ending until they actually went there. Unforgettable.

******
23 February 2016
1
I'm writing this review because the score for this movie got me
furiously angry it was honestly really bad. What angered me the most
was reading the reviews stating how good this movie was. Wow really...
Really though? Four of went to see the movie,neither of us liked it. It
sucks so bad I can't believe this was an actual movie. Everyone in the
movie theater complained I'm not kidding. The ending was the worst. I
gotta say the beginning, made it look like it was going to be good, boy
that took a serious 180. I still can't believe the BS reviews on here.
Oh I have to keep writing even though I'm done with my review and
clearly have more than 10 lines wow thanks a lot.

******
18 February 2016
2
The Witch presents the audience with some interesting dialogue, an
enjoyable setting and a couple very good characters. This unfortunately
ends the positives for this film. The Witch is not a horror film, and
perhaps that is more the fault of the marketing rather than the film,
it is a period piece with a couple of weird scenes in it where nothing
frightening happens except perhaps one jump scare. No build, no
tension, a single jump scare and credits.The score for this film is a tad offensive, it's the same exact score
other B level horror films blast so loud you have to cringe a bit,
followed by nothingness. Basic dialogue taking place in a pretty
setting, then when you believe the film might be starting it is over
and you're wondering where the hell the film from the trailers was, or
where the "horror" aspect was hiding. The biggest flaw of this film is
that no story is told, it's a couple of scenes strung together that
don't build to anything, and in the end there is nothing of interest.
No scares, no story, no narrative, a couple pretty shots of the
wilderness and a goat.If you really like old accents and monologues in dark rooms, this is
for you. If you want a story, anything frightening or tense, or
something you haven't seen before, this one isn't it.

******
18 February 2016
1
I went to see The Witch at an advance screening with no expectations,
not watching the trailer nor reading any reviews ahead of time. I was
bored to death. This movie should have been edited down to 30 minutes.
The use of suspenseful music to make me anticipate something is going
to happen but nothing does makes me feel humiliated. Using low lighting
to minimize the visual effect of scary scenes is counterproductive.
This types of techniques won't work in the horror genre nowadays. The
old English language is another negative feature of this movie. The TV
show My Haunted House is scarier than this movie. A horror movie fan
should skip it.

******
10 October 2015
4
OK, I saw this one at the grand opening of the Sitges festival. I went
with high expectations after all the praise I read from the critics and
success it had in Sundance. WooW, what a waste of time, this is proof I
will ever pay attention to critics again, seems they live in another
planet (not were the rest of the viewers lives). Flat boring script
where absolutely nothing happens during the first hour, you start
wishing the movie ends waiting of course with a weird ending. And
that's exactly what you get, what I regret the most is that I love
movies involving witchcraft, but this one is a truly forgettable one.
Invest your time in Salem on TV, that's the best you can get thinking
about Witches right now.

******
27 January 2015
4
The early reviews are quite shocking. it seems that this film is
getting positive ratings due to the fact that it is In the sundance
film festival. I saw it there and was very disappointed. The few things
the film does right are lost among all the problems. While the music
does a decent Job capturing the tense atmosphere it fails to be
anything more then unoriginal. The films uneven pacing is another key
factor in its demise. It's extremely hard to watch in that it's very
boring. When the film really gets going it's hard to care since the
character development was limited to a few scenes between characters
that feel forced. The subtleties the film attempts at are lost thanks
to poor script writing. It mashes different folk lore of the period
together and winds up feeling very clunky. Especially in the horror
parts. The mood and atmosphere are set up beautifully but when it comes
to the scares they fall flat, again thanks to poor character writing.
In the end The Witch feels lazy, underwritten, and devoid of any real
scares. If you would like to see a real atmospheric, well put together
horror film see The Babadook. This film is one I will not see again.

