******
19 September 2000
10

The story of a reluctant Christ-like protagonist set against a baroque,
MTV
backdrop, The Matrix is the definitive hybrid of technical wizardry and
contextual excellence that should be the benchmark for all sci-fi films to
come.Hollywood has had some problems combining form and matter in the sci-fi
genre.  There have been a lot of visually stunning works but nobody cared
about the hero. (Or nobody simply cared about anything.)  There a few,
though, which aroused interest and intellect but nobody 'ooh'-ed or
'aah'-ed
at the special effects.  With The Matrix, both elements are perfectly en
sync.  Not only did we want to cheer on the heroes to victory, we wanted
them to bludgeon the opposition.  Not only did we sit in awe as Neo evaded
those bullets in limbo-rock fashion, we salivated.But what makes The Matrix several cuts above the rest of the films in its
genre is that there are simply no loopholes.  The script, written by the
Wachowski brothers is intelligent but carefully not geeky.  The kung-fu
sequences were deftly shot -- something even Bruce Lee would've been proud
of.  The photography was breathtaking.  (I bet if you had to cut every
frame
on the reel and had it developed and printed, every single frame would
stand
on its own.)  And the acting?  Maybe not the best Keanu Reeves but name me
an actor who has box-office appeal but could portray the uneasy and
vulnerable protagonist, Neo, to a T the way Reeves did.  But, come to
think
of it, if you pit any actor beside Laurence Fishburne, you're bound to
confuse that actor for bad acting.  As Morpheus, Mr. Fishburne is simply
wicked!  Shades of his mentor-role in Higher Learning, nobody exudes that
aura of quiet intensity than Mr. Fishburne.  His character, battle-scarred
but always composed Morpheus, is given an extra dose of mortality (He
loves
Neo to a fault.) only Mr. Fishburne can flesh out.People will say what they want to say about how good The Matrix is but the
bottomline is this: finally there's a philosophical film that has cut
through this generation.  My generation.
The Wachowski brothers probably scribbled a little P.S. note when they
finished the script saying: THINK FOR A MOMENT ABOUT YOUR EXISTENCE.  What
is the Matrix, you ask?  Something that's closer to reality than you
think.Either that or it's my personal choice for best film of
all-time.

******
2 December 2005
10
Writing a review of The Matrix is a very hard thing for me to do
because this film means a lot to me and therefore I want to do the film
justice by writing a good review. To tell the truth the first time I
saw the film I was enamored by the effects. I remember thinking to
myself that this was one of the most visually stunning films I had ever
seen in my life. Also having always been a comic book fan and a fan of
films that were larger than life, the transitional element of the story
was very appealing to me and this probably heightened my enjoyment of
the film very much. It wasn't until some time later (and after having
seen the film a few times more) that I started to think about the film.
I recognized the Christian elements quite quickly but it wasn't until I
wrote an actual 15-page essay on the film that I tapped into some of
the philosophical and religious elements and that made me appreciate
the film even more. I won't say that I have recognized all elements
because the film is quite literally packed with them.Acting wise the film works excellently. I won't say that there aren't
any issues because there are but overall the acting is pretty flawless.
Keanu Reeves plays the main character, Neo, or Thomas A. Anderson and
while he is not the perfect actor I think he does a pretty good job in
The Matrix (and the sequels). He doesn't have the longest of lines
which was probably a deliberate choice from the directors and it works
because this gives him a better opportunity to work on posture and
facial expressions and I must say that overall his body language is
very good. Very clear and well defined. Laurence Fishbourne plays Neo's
mentor Morpheus and he does an excellent job of it. His lines flow with
a certain confidence and style that makes his character somewhat unique
and interesting. Carrie-Anne Moss does a good job as well and succeeds
in looking both cool and sexy in her leather outfit. Joe Pantoliano, a
critically underrated actor does a brilliant job of bringing his
character, Cypher, to life. I can't say much about him because his
character is pretty essential to the plot and I certainly don't wan't
to spoil it for anyone. Gloria Foster appears in a relatively small
role that will have greater significance in the following films and she
does a very good job. The best acting is provided by Hugo Weaving,
however, in his portrayal of Agent Smith. It is really something to
watch him act out the changes in his character. Agent Smith gains some
human traits like anger, sense of dread, hate and eventually even a sly
sense of humor (mostly in the sequels). Two thumbs way up to Weaving
who has created one of the finest screen villains of all time.Effects wise the film is simply stunning and it deservedly was awarded
the Oscar for best effects (and was regrettably cheated out of a
nomination in the Best Film category) ahead of even Star Wars. The
reason that I think The Matrix deserves the Oscar for best effects is
simply that the effects in The Matrix are more innovative than the ones
in Star Wars. Just take a look at how many times the effects have been
spoofed and you'll probably agree. The effects also help in the
symbolism of the film and in creating a very dystopian atmosphere not
unlike the one seen in Blade Runner and this works brilliantly. The
film looks beautiful at all times and today 6 years later (my God has
it already been 6 years?) the effects still hold their ground against
new science fiction films. Add the effects to the brilliant editing and
you have a visual masterpiece on your hands. Very well done.The reason that I think The Matrix is more reviewable than pretty much
any other film is the story and the philosophical and religious
elements of the story because with every viewing I catch something I
didn't see the previous time I watched it. Without spoiling the film I
think I can mention a few of the more obvious elements. Obviously the
film draws on the Messiah myth as Neo is a clear reference to Jesus
with the analogy of his name (Neo = one, as in The One) but also hidden
in his other name, Thomas A. Anderson. The first part of his last name,
Anderson comes from the Greek Andros meaning "man" and combine this
with the second part of his last name "son" and add a little creativity
you will come up with the combination "son of man" which was a title
Jesus came up with about himself. Also the first time we meet Neo a man
calls him (and I quote): "You're my Saviour man. My own personal Jesus
Christ." It doesn't get any more obvious than that. Aside from the
Christianic elements the film also gets its inspiration from Budhism,
Gnosticism (Gnosis = knowledge) but is also inspired by Plato and his
analogy of the Cave and Jean Baudrillard's essay, Simulacra and
Simulations. Explaining these elements would make this review go on
forever so aside from mentioning them I will not comment on them
further.To all the people who doubt the profound nature of The Matrix I can
only give one advice: Free your mind and watch the film again. You
won't regret it. If I had to choose a favorite all time film my choice
would probably fall on either The Matrix (obviously I don't expect
people to agree but if they do thats great) or The Lord of the Rings:
The Return of the King and I recommend it to all fans of sci-fi and
people who like philosophy.10/10 - on my top 3 of best films.

******
3 April 1999
10

It's been a while since a movie has generated enough interest in me for me to
watch it.  "The Matrix" looked exciting enough in the trailers, so I decided
to give it a look.  What I found was an amazing movie, with some of the
greatest special effects I've ever seen.  The camera angles really work for
the action sequences and the choreographed fight scenes made me yearn for
more.  Say what you want about Keanu Reeves' acting.  He may not deliver the
best dialogue, but his look can carry a film.  He was a great choice for the
role of Neo.  Carrie Anne Moss was great as was the underrated Laurence
Fishburne.  I highly recommend this film for those who are a fan of visually
stunning movies.  It will blow away your senses...


******
29 March 2000
10

The Wachowski Brothers vision of a possible future takes the visual and
sound aspects of filmmaking to a new high. Incorporating older still
photography with computer enhancement to the degree that appears on the
screen has raised the genre to a level that will be very hard-pressed by
filmmakers for a number of years. Acting was wonderful, script, visual,
sound, everything about this film is a tribute to a usually overlooked
genre.

******
23 April 2002
10

The Wachowski brothers really did excel themselves with this movie. It's a
brilliant movie on a number of different levels - the directing is
excellent, the camera work is great, the visuals are stunning, the kung-fu
is A+, acting is executed with style and conviction, and the plot is truly
inspired. It's really hard to use enough superlatives on this
movie!It'd be a 10/10, except for the ending. Having Neo do what he does at the
end really lets it down, in my opinion. However, there's a couple of
sequels
on the way, so let's see what the Wachowskis can do to make up for
it.Other than that, (and like I said above) the movie is operating on so many
different levels that each time you watch it, you pick up something new...
this isn't by accident, either. The Wachowski brothers had the actors read
a
number of definitive works (Simulation & Simulcra was one I believe) in
modern literature and psychology, and applied liberal dashings of aspects
of
the major religions to provide the best sci-fi movie of the decade, if not
ever.I'm yet to meet somebody who hasn't enjoyed it. It's my favourite movie to
watch on a good cinema system, too.

******
26 July 2014
10
** May contain spoilers **There aren't many movies I watched in the theatre twice  let alone on
the same day - but immediately after the credits had rolled (and still
pumped up by 'Rage against the Machine'), I queued up for the next
screening of 'The Matrix'. I was so blown away by that film, I feared -
and probably rightly so - that I hadn't caught every detail of what I'd
just seen. I later found out that many of my friends had had a similar
reaction to the film, and I know virtually no one who liked the film
and didn't watch it at least twice. It's simply one of those rare films
that are so rich you just have to watch them several times.In structure, style and concept, 'The Matrix' was ground-breaking; it
marked the first time the visual style of Manga comic books and Anime
such as 'Akira' or 'Ghost in the Shell' had been successfully
translated to a live-action film. Apart from 'Blade Runner', which has
a totally different mood and pace (but is also a masterpiece and
visionary film-making), there simply hadn't been anything even remotely
like it. The jaw-dropping action sequences have such a raw, gripping
energy they feel like an adrenalin overdose, but unlike most action
films, they never overshadow the story; on the contrary - they enhance
it and make complete sense within that universe.As for the story itself, I think this is one of the most original,
fascinating Sci-Fi tales you'll likely ever see on screen. Clearly
inspired by Japanese Anime and Manga yet also by authors like Isaac
Asimov or Philip K. Dick, the story about humanity's war against its
own creation, machines of an artificial intelligence that have evolved
to the point where they have become the dominant 'species' and vastly
superior to their creators, could take place in the same world as
'Blade Runner' or 'The Terminator' - albeit several hundred years
later. But there is also a mythical, even religious undercurrent to the
story; the themes of a prophecy, a "liberator" or even a "messiah" make
'The Matrix' transcend the Science-Fiction genre and become even more
unique.'The Matrix' was a watershed moment in filmmaking  in every respect 
and even though two inferior sequels have left a bit of a stain on the
film, they can't distract from what an uncompromising and hugely
influential masterpiece this is. Sci-Fi movies that were released after
'The Matrix' have tried very hard to achieve a similar look and tone,
but the original still owns them all. 10 stars out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/In an ideal world, movies would be made without the aim for a certain
rating. This article sums up why this is so important:www.the-fanboy-perspective.com/the-importance-of-the-r-rating.html

******
19 July 2000
8

You walk into this film not knowing what the Matrix is. You take your seat
and watch the trailers. The green Warner Brothers (green? you ask) trademark
comes up, and without warning you are thrust into the Wachowski brothers
grand vision. 2 hours of excitement later, you stumble out of the cinema,
knowing what the Matrix is.This is one great movie. Keanu Reeves is cooler than cool as Neo. The
Wachowski brothers skilful direction is brilliant. The special effects
sequences will blow you away, did I mention the government lobby scene?The film starts off with a 'what is real?' first half, and then the first
kung-fu sequence makes way for an action- packed, John Woo-esque second half
with slomo and style cranked up all the way to the top. Did I mention the
government lobby scene?Keanu becomes Cool Keanu, Carrie-Anne Moss is a real find and Hugo Weaving
is perfect in his against typecasting role as the evil Agent Smith.You may notice in this review that I have not revealed what the Matrix is.
Like the trailer says, 'You have to see it for yourself.'Excellent. Best film of '99. 9/10. 

******
30 January 2005
10
In the year 1999, "The Matrix" and "Fight Club" were undoubtedly the
best films of the year. The Matrix was truly revolutionary in special
effects, specifically in CGI (Computer-Generated-Imaging) technology.
The still cameras that were used to capture multiple angles of a single
shot, in bullet-time technology, was a creative new approach. The film
is initially suspenseful with people not knowing quite what was
happening until Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne) reveals that Neo's (Keanu
Reeves) reality was actually a fabricated world that is an elaborate
simulation created by machines. Neo and the majority of the world's
inhabitants have been stuck in simply a mental simulation prison. The magnitude of philosophy in sync with special effects make "The
Matrix" a one-of-a-kind movie masterpiece. College classes show this
movie in their philosophy class, and at the same time can prove to be
one of the best special effects movies ever. Supplementally, "The
Matrix" also provides endless action and a pretty solid storyline that
influences the philosophical ideas in the movie. There are so many great things in this movie, it is just crazy.The color palette along with the time and effort put into stunts also
accelerates this movie on all filming levels. "The Matrix" leaves the
viewer a sense of pride in the world he/she can live in to just know
that people are capable of creating at this level. Unfortunately,
monetary and timing motives offset the potential quality of the
sequels. "The Matrix Reloaded" and "The Matrix Revolutions" were just a
waste of time and weren't carefully thought out, as was the first
Matrix. 10/10

******
6 December 1999
9

Right there with Seven and Silence of the Lambs for me.  I love this film,
and rate it a notch above some of the other great action films of our time
(i.e., Terminator, Predator) because it has a really well thought out
(although moderately unbelievable) story line.  A lot of thought provoking
material, and some interesting subtleties. I've seen it 10 times (I don't
usually watch a movie more than once), and I'll watch it a few more. 
Enjoy!

******
8 February 2016
10
......................................................from
Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA...and ORLANDO, FL The Wachowski brothers certainly have a handle on the art of film
making for the new millennium! 20 or 30 years in the future, a plethora
of both historical and imaginary virtual world venues available at your
fingertips, via your virtual reality headgear, you won't be asking
yourself, once immersed in the world of your choosing, "Wait, how did I
get here and why am I here?" MATRIX illustrates just how insightful and prophetic Marshall McLuhan's
assertion "The Medium is the Message" has proved to be! Does Matrix
glorify violence? Is it really original? Does it border on blasphemous?
Most of the discussion and critique of MATRIX really seem to miss the
point entirely. MATRIX is the essence and epitome of style...not
substance.Through a seamless symbiotic blending of diverse visual and auditory
elements, most notably the 360º sequential surround photography of
artfully choreographed and precisely executed human action scenes, the
Wachowski's have achieved a true re-definition of the cinematic
experience, on their own terms.Engaging, engrossing and bombarding your senses with their signature
style, ultimately transporting you to a virtual world much more
convincing than any drug-induced one. MATRIX clearly speaks to us in a
newly formatted cinematic language. My recommendation: Put aside any
negative preconceived notions and just listen....10*STARS*....ENJOY/DISFRUTELA! Any comments, questions or observations, in English or Español, are
most welcome!

******
12 November 2015
10
Spoilers Ahead:The brothers obviously have read a lot of Rene Descartes, his first
meditation you hear Morpeus quote from: how could you tell a dream from
the real world? This was the problem of answering empirical skepticism
which he spent the whole work pursuing. The movie's writing, its
philosophical depth, is often lost amidst the excellent action movie
surrounding it. Why it works so well is even the first showing you
never are sure who is right The Oracle or Morpheus? It plays with you
all the way until the end with Neo apparently dying from Smith emptying
a whole clip into him. I would like to point out to you the moments I
loved as a philosopher. My favorite: when Neo sees the Matrix, notice
this proceeds his invincibility: what an excellent existential metaphor
for human existence. Yes, my friends, see the phenomenal matrix about
you it is just as unreal. He stares at everything eyes filled with
astonishment everything is an illusion. This is what Morpheus had been
trying to get him to understand the entire movie. "You think that is
real air you are breathing?" The philosophical power of the movie is
why it resonates by the way. This epiphany of seeing the Matrix as the
phenomenal construct of his mind has implications that are quite
transposable to the 'real world' our minds construct for us.The red or the blue pill? How many people do you know that are like
Cypher? They want the blue pill oblivious to it being a world of deceit
and illusion, again, what a metaphor for so many people, they prefer a
happy lie to an unhappy truth. I love the movie for it conveys the
struggle of Neo; we wish it for him as he fights and fails. This is the
core of its success in contrast to the sequels. He fails the building
jump, the fight with Morpeus and the subway showdown with Agent Smith.
When I saw this there was an audible gasp when The Oracle says that
Morpheus is mistaken and delusional. Even by this point, the audience
is so wrapped up in rooting for Neo to be The One that it showed how
well it had grabbed hold of the viewers. You never know until the very
end when he resurrects and stands back up. Action movies' fate are
predicated upon the strength or weakness of their villains: find me a
better villain than Agent Smith,"Human beings are a disease; we are the
cure." He looks upon us as loathsome, bad smelling, meat sacks which he
destroys whenever he gets the chance. The battle to be The One, his many failings and our doubts followed by
his majestic rise up from the floor, this is why this became a
masterpiece. The action is breathtaking with state of the art effects
that still are great to see. This can be said for many bad modern
films; what differentiates this is the Quest Motif of the Hero
Archetype. Within the movie are profound questions of epistemology:
What is Truth and would you prefer a pleasure filled illusion to a
stark, cold and dangerous world of truth? How can I tell what is real
from what is illusion? Also, how controllers use pleasureful lies to
control their slaves. See if you can find another movie so deeply
filled with the central questions of philosophy? Descartes' solution
was that he had certain 'clear and distinct' ideas the negation of
which was a contradiction. God would never have made his mind oppose
itself like this, such as 2 plus 2 equals four, ergo, the phenomenal
world must be real. I know, if you desire better answers read Immanuel
Kant's Critique Of Pure Reason. This is a stand alone masterpiece with
great philosophical depth. Almost twenty years old and it still
resonates as well as it did when it was released. I never blame the
brothers for the sequels, this film can never be part of a series; it
is a one of a kind classic. Enjoy! Q.E.D."For Any Test We Can Devise We Could Also Dream Of Taking." Rene
Descartes"Interiority Exteriorizes Itself In Order To Interiorize Exteriority."
Jean Paul Sartre

******
11 January 2016
7
The Matrix (1999) is basically the idea of The Matrix, an ultra-
computerized sci-fi film by Andy and Larry Wachowski that has an
excellent concept but squanders it by falling back on the same old
tired action movie conventions. The Wachowski siblings have given us an
hour's worth of excellent cinema, filled with fascinating ideas. The film begins where We start with a woman named Trinity (Carrie- Anne
Moss), who seems to be on the run from a gang of Men In Black- types
led by Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving). Luckily, she can leap tall buildings
in a single bound, run around on the walls, and so on. So she gets
away, but not before contacting a computer hacker named Neo (Reeves) by
sending him a cryptic message on his monitor. Following her directions,
Neo meets up with Morpheus (Fishburne), who is in charge of a ragtag
team of humans from the late 22nd century. And why did Morpheus seek
out Neo and bring him up to speed? Because Neo is The One; he's the
messiah. He's going to save us all.

******
26 December 2015
7
The story of a reluctant Christ-like protagonist set against a baroque,
MTV backdrop, The Matrix is the definitive hybrid of technical wizardry
and contextual excellence that should be the benchmark for all sci-fi
films to come.Hollywood has had some problems combining form and matter in the sci-fi
genre. There have been a lot of visually stunning works but nobody
cared about the hero. (Or nobody simply cared about anything.) There a
few, though, which aroused interest and intellect but nobody 'ooh'-ed
or 'aah'-ed at the special effects. With The Matrix, both elements are
perfectly en sync. Not only did we want to cheer on the heroes to
victory, we wanted them to bludgeon the opposition. Not only did we sit
in awe as Neo evaded those bullets in limbo-rock fashion, we salivated.But what makes The Matrix several cuts above the rest of the films in
its genre is that there are simply no loopholes. The script, written by
the Wachowski brothers is intelligent but carefully not geeky. The
King-fun sequences were deftly shot -- something even Bruce Lee
would've been proud of. The photography was breathtaking. (I bet if you
had to cut every frame on the reel and had it developed and printed,
every single frame would stand on its own.) And the acting? Maybe not
the best Keanu Reeves but name me an actor who has box-office appeal
but could portray the uneasy and vulnerable protagonist, Neo, to a T
the way Reeves did. But, come to think of it, if you pit any actor
beside Laurence Fishburne, you're bound to confuse that actor for bad
acting. As Morpheus, Mr. Fishburne is simply wicked! Shades of his
mentor-role in Higher Learning, nobody exudes that aura of quiet
intensity than Mr. Fishburne. His character, battle-scarred but always
composed Morpheus, is given an extra dose of mortality (He loves Neo to
a fault.) only Mr. Fishburne can flesh out.People will say what they want to say about how good The Matrix is but
the boatmen is this: finally there's a philosophical film that has cut
through this generation. My generation. The Wachowski brothers probably
scribbled a little P.S. note when they finished the script saying:
THINK FOR A MOMENT ABOUT YOUR EXISTENCE. What is the Matrix, you ask?
Something that's closer to reality than you think.Either that or it's my personal choice for best film of all-time.

******
22 October 2015
7
It might seem  but it isn't  condescending to find it ill-considered
for any one of us, in unqualified fashion, to declare one particular
motion picture the "very best" unless and until thoroughly familiar
with the whole spectrum of all genres and disciplines from the last
century. An absolute favorite, certainly, as in music, literature and
the arts; but there is the work of Mizoguchi; Godard; Buñuel;
Riefenstahl; Fellini; Ozu; Fritz Lang; Satyajit Ray; Renoir; Dreyer;
Truffaut; Bresson; Murnau; Welles; Kurosawa; Kazan; Ophuls; Eisenstein;
Keaton; Bergman; Kubrick; Minelli; Kieslowski; Yimou; Hitchcock;
Rohmer; etc. "B-e-s-t" might reasonably include at least a handful of
other movies in world culture.

******
14 April 1999
10
(Correction of a reference I made in my review of April 12,1999)1. The feel of "The Matrix": This is a movie that envelops you, and is
reminiscent of two works: a movie and an excerpt from a novel. The
first is the 1-hour made-for-TV-film "The Lathe of Heaven," by Ursula
K. Le Guin which was broadcast on Channel 13 / Educational TV back in
1980: after the film, I felt I was a character living in the film. "The
Lathe of Heaven" was about a character whose dreams become reality;
every time he wakes up, he is in a new future / futuristic setting
where everything changes in accordance to his dream.Kurt Vonnegut (in "Breakfast of Champions") had a small sci-fi concept
in one of his books called (approximately) "A message from the
creator." In this story, God writes a book to the only person in the
world. God tells him that the entire world was created for him, all
religions were invented so he could have a choice of religions, and
other people were merely robots who had a specific purpose, such as
fighting with him. Thus, whatever he does doesn't matter, since no one
else is real but him. The character reads this book, and goes insane,
thinking that it is true.Similarly, when you leave "The Matrix," you wonder what is real and
what is a simulation. After the movie, my friend walked across the
street blindly ignoring cars, perhaps trapped in the illusion that this
was not real. It took several minutes for him to escape this fantasy
world. It affected me similarly.2. Personal Reactions: a) Movie was great (tentatively on my list of
"top 12 movies" for me). b)I did not like Fishburne's pockmarked face
and grimaces. c)Some corniness in the awakening kiss given to
Keanu/Neo, that in my mind, could be traced to reality: people in comas
do hear and can respond after what appears to be death.3. Plot Holes: How did the Operator recover from being killed/shot? How
did the Oracle know what would happen?4. Political Correctness: a) Two to four black heroes who could easily
have been white; b) a possible lesbian; c)a Latino; d)a short person;
e)bad white guys(and no bad ethnic types); f) a middle-aged kindly
motherly type, g)even a few kids as potential heroes, with one being a
guru.

******
16 September 2015
8
The film's story follows Thomas Anderson (Neo), a computer programmer
by day and a hacker by night. When another hacker named Trinity
contacts him she tells him a number of unbelievable, and seemingly
impossible things. When his questions just lead to more questions he
agrees to meet a man named Morpheus. Neo is given a choice, learn the
truth about what he calls reality or stay blissfully ignorant to the
truth. After choosing "truth" he finds the real world as he knows it
isn't real at all. It seems that in the early 21st century, there was
an all-out war between human beings and advanced machines, resulting in
the triumph of artificial intelligence. Freed from the false world "The
Matrix", Neo is ready to do battle with the forces that made the world
what it has become.

******
30 March 2009
10
I find it strange that most of the people who watched Matrix were only
attracted by the visual effects and overlooked the scientific facts on
which this movie was based.People enjoyed the flying mostly and hence liked Matrix 1 more than
they did with 2 and 3 although the answer was in part 3 that is who
will win the war eventually between humans and machines. Some people
they make fun of the idea that one day humans will be in direct war
with machines but those people have not read yet about the Nano
technology. The latter technology offers something like the software
which teaches Neo how to fight in little time. Well through Nano, they
will be able to plant a brainlike chip which works 10,000 times faster
than our brain and they are now trying to optimize the speed limit in a
way that doesn't endanger our brain which might be burnt working under
such speed.As for the flying part, it is very possible if the science of
Psychokinesis is given more consideration and in the near future I
reckon they will with the evolution of human body which is going toward
less and less movement. Has anyone seen the prototype of the new cars
which have no pedals and we use sticks to drive and direct the car in
different directions.Well, I guess the movie has tackled all these scientific aspects
alongside psychological and philosophical ones in a very brilliant way
and I 100% give this move 20 on a scale out of 10!

******
14 July 2006
10
''Unfortunately, no one can be told what the Matrix is. You have to see
it for yourself''. This is one of the great sentences of this awesome
movie, and also when the real adventure starts; with a great
cast,special effects that made a revolution and an excellent story,
''Matrix'' really is one of my favorite movies of all! I am very happy
that neither Ewan McGregor and Leonardo Di Caprio were cast to be
''Neo'', because I cannot imagine a better Neo then the one Keanu
played.One of the things I love about this movie, is all the discussions and
the ideas said through metaphors that are applied to our present
society as well as many references to famous literary like ''Alice's
Adventures in Wonderland'', Things like the government controlling us,
the manipulation that almost all people suffer and even values like the
world's pollution,religions, and big population that will eventually
bring problems or even the destruction of the human race, is discussed
in a covered way in the film. (And I need to say, that the debate about
what we define as being real or not, is another good thing to make
people think about, as well as the information about human behavior,
destroying all the living things and multiplying everywhere we go
without ''balance''.)The Computer hacker Thomas Anderson, well known in the web as ''Neo'',
lives an ordinary life working in a respected Software Company. The
problem is that he has doubts about the life he is living, and
sometimes he doesn't know if he is dreaming or awake. When he contacts
Morpheus, considered by the authorities as one of the most dangerous
man alive and joins his rebel army, Neo finally sees the reality that
happened in the world:More then 150 years in the future,the world has been devastated and
controlled by very intelligent machines, who created a fake version of
20th-century life-the "Matrix"-to keep the human slaves satisfied,
while the AI machines draw power from them. Neo is considered by
Morpheus ''The One'', the guy who will lead the humans to overthrow the
machines and reclaim the Earth. But Neo needs to learn a lot of things
first, and being haunted by the Matrix 's''agents'' (a computer program
that take on human form and infiltrate the Matrix to control everything
and kill the rebels) will give him a very hard time.

******
29 September 2008
10
What is real? How do you define real? This question has been explored
for its significance in metaphysics in other movies as well. The
Thirteenth Floor is one of them and the other is Dark City. I mention
these because they were released more or less around the same time as
this movie was released. But these two movies do not enjoy the position
and the popularity of this movie - The Matrix, why? Look at the box
office success of the Matrix. Look at the popularity of this movie.
Advertisements have been created based on the themes of this movie.
Most people seem to have heard of the movie if not seen it. The Matrix
enjoys a prominent position in the top 50 on the IMDb. Even a list of
100 best movies of all times as compiled by a documentary on the
Discovery Channel mentioned this movie as among the top 100. The key to the enormous success of the Matrix is the symbiotic
combination of two opposing elements. The first one being metaphysics
or philosophy and the second element being intense amount of action.
The Dark City is limited in its action and stresses more on the
metaphysics aspect and so does the Thirteenth floor. When you see The
Matrix, you see that there is far more metaphysics and philosophy in
this movie when compared to the other two. And when you see the action
sequences of the movie, the two movies fade into oblivion. There is so much for the intellectual to busy himself with in this
movie. There is a reference to so many mythological places and figures.
The character Neo is an anagram of One signifying the One Absolute many
cultures believe in and then there is Trinity, an obvious reference to
the Holy Trinity. The names of the ships, the numbers on the door, the
name of the book Neo takes his CD out from all have a significance, a
clue, if that is what one wants to call it. This movie gives enough to
the intellectual to study and talk about. And yet the movie does not fail to capture the attention of the average
movie goer. The average movie goer does not want to search for hidden
symbols, he does not want to discuss the movie for hours and hours. He
wants some action and some fun. The movie gives that as well. The movie
has a lot of guns, a lot of chases and a lot of fighting. The average
movie goer can appreciate the main aspect of this movie without
bothering about all the hidden symbols which the intellectual chooses
to see in the movie. Yet, he apparently does not deny himself the
spirit of the movie and enjoys it. And I believe this is what has made
the movie successful - the reconciliation between action and thrill and
metaphysics and philosophy. This movie deserves all the praise and success that it has got. My
personal all-time favorite. I never get tired of talking about it till
date and love to see it with my friends if I get the chance.

******
11 June 2005
9
A large part of the appeal of 'The Matrix' for me was the special
effects and action-packed scenes. But, on reflection, part of the
appeal is also its philosophical and religious underpinnings...When asked whether Buddhist ideas influenced them, the Wachowski
brothers offered an unqualified "Yes!" and at a very basic level, the
movie portrays two levels of reality: our everyday existence and a
deeper, more significant, underlying reality (the matrix). This is very
much like the Two Truths in Buddhism: relative truth, in which
everything is perception, and ultimate truth which is the way things
really are (objective reality). Because of our ignorance, we mistake the everyday world for something
real and objective, and this is the cause of our suffering. As in 'The
Matrix', breaking through relative truth to direct contact with
ultimate truth represents a high spiritual attainment, some would say
enlightenment, an awakening. (Remember the message on Neo's computer
screen: "Wake up, Neo!")Mahayana Buddhism suggests that there are great spiritual warriors
(like Neo?) who are walking the path from ignorance to enlightenment,
and who can in turn guide us on the path.

******
6 March 2016
9
Intelligently designed with attention to speed control in terms of
effects. With the speed of development in technology one can only look
forward to what comes next. The expression of a thought or idea can be
done in many ways however when paired with great effects the visual
stimulation can have a hypnotic effect on the viewer. All though there
is room for improvement with anything The Matrix was Thought Provoking,
Provided Excellent Effects, Good Acting, Proper Execution Of Timing,
Good Music Choices. Overall I was impressed with The Matrix and look forward to any other
future offerings. Movies that can challenge the mind to think
differently has always captivated me, Enjoy and remember the Truth is
out there!!

******
4 March 2016
10
Best American sci-fi ever can't say enough good about this title. Even
as I watched this the first time as a teenager I was struck by it. It
is an incredibly thought provoking film, so well written and so well
acted out. From the visuals to the camera shots to the lines in this
film you can't help but be transported when you watch. The otherworldly
feeling is nailed and to me true art does that. Moreover true art
leaves you with a thought provoking educational message. Whether it is
to spark conversation or simply to teach you something true art will
make that happen. The Matrix does exactly that in making you question
your own life and leaves you ultimately responsible for making the
choice to choose the easy way out or the righteous enlightened way.
Love love love this epic movie!!!!!

******
25 February 2016
8
I found this movie so ground-breaking on many different levels.The script gives the viewer the clues piece by piece as the story
unfolds, there are enough characters and scope to get you hanging every
moment, and something about this movie makes it fresh each time I watch
it, not many movies do that, that's the art of a true cult film right
there.Even though I enjoyed all of the matrix movies, it would have been so
awesome if the other two sequels could have matched this one, a
difficult feat for any movie as we know, but for the potential of this
story it would have been a real bonus gift to sci-fi movies.As a sci-fi fan, this movie is up there with the best of them, a must
see for anyone serious about the genre.

******
23 February 2016
9
With a great cast and an amazing spin of the story of Jesus Christ and
its bible references I enjoy this movie time and time again. The only
complaint I would have with The Matrix Trilogy is we all wanted
more...but there is rumor of one in the works I only hope it to be
fact. And with how technology has advanced it can only be that much
better. can't wait to see if more come in to play. I know as an actor
if they came up with a 4th movie I would really try to audition. What
would the world be like if everyone woke up...could we defeat the
machines and get the revenge we deserve. And would the main characters
be willing to return for more even if it went strait to Netflix i think
this would satisfy fans...it would satisfy this fan.

******
26 January 2016
8
The Matrix was pretty groundbreaking wasn't it? It showed the world
that big budget action movies can be philosophical. That said, looking
at it now, it does have a dated appearance. Does that make it any less
a film. Not exactly, but it's easier to laugh at some of the things
about it. We've all seen people make fun of Keanu Reeves going,
"Whoah." That said I still like the movie. It's a fun action flick that
also makes you think, and I like that. The story was good, the effects
are good, most of the acting is good (most of it), and I really do
appreciate what this film did for the action genre. It wasn't unheard
of for action movies to be philosophical, it just wasn't as common as
it now. Today a lot of action movies can double as thinker movies, and
a lot of that is down The Matrix. If you haven't seen it, you should go
check it out.

******
4 October 2015
8
The thing is, you think you are watching an ordinary action movie, but
actually you're embracing a philosophy. The first time I've seen the
movie I was, I don't know, 10 or something like that. I was more scared
to be honest. However in high school, after I have done a research
about the movie, It made me wonder more about it. Platon's philosophy
is actually something important, especially these days where perhaps we
should question whether if we are actually free and liberated as we
think. these kind of movies should be done; you are thinking, but yet
it is not exhausting. The first one is actually my favorite one. Also I
would suggest you to watch Alice in Wonderland; if you would like to
know a little more about Greek philosophy.

******
23 September 2015
8
This movie came out the same year as The Phantom Menace (1999). So we
can say that at least one innovative and epic sci-fi came out of 1999.
That one is The Matrix. The One.So the Matrix is a sci-fi that revolves around the truth about our
world and the truth that Mr. Anderson or "Neo" must discover. Apart
from sounding preachy, this movie is host to a ton of symbolism, but at
the same time makes for an emersive and entertaining experience.The digital effects are astounding for its release date and are put to
good use, creating some of the Awesomest moments in cinema. Every knows
the bullet dodge. And everyone loves it too.Keanu Reeves' offerings as an actor are not to be over looked in this
film. I've always thought that Keanu makes a great action movie hero,
and this movie confirms my beliefs.All in all, the Matrix can be described in three words; creative,
innovative and BADASS. So follow Alice down the Rabbit-hole and take a
look at The Matrix. It won't disappoint.

******
2 September 2015
8
If you're not big into understanding computers and how they work, this
film may not make too much sense to you. The reason being is because
this production is set in a near-future point in time and
computers/electronics are the main source of power. I believe what the
directors were trying to say in this production is that we are all
"sleeping" and what if we woke up? What if the we are all under
government control, being drugged to stay asleep and a program is
having us all dream this same dream we call "life"?In the Matrix, Neo wakes up and finds a world nothing like the world in
the dream he has been having all his life and he is "born" again into
the real world and reprogrammed.

******
13 August 2015
8
I agree with mambubukids review about the matrix here is what he said.The story of a reluctant Christ-like protagonist set against a baroque,
MTV backdrop, The Matrix is the definitive hybrid of technical wizardry
and contextual excellence that should be the benchmark for all sci-fi
films to come.Hollywood has had some problems combining form and matter in the sci-fi
genre. There have been a lot of visually stunning works but nobody
cared about the hero. (Or nobody simply cared about anything.) There a
few, though, which aroused interest and intellect but nobody 'ooh'-ed
or 'aah'-ed at the special effects. With The Matrix, both elements are
perfectly en sync. Not only did we want to cheer on the heroes to
victory, we wanted them to bludgeon the opposition. Not only did we sit
in awe as Neo evaded those bullets in limbo-rock fashion, we salivated.But what makes The Matrix several cuts above the rest of the films in
its genre is that there are simply no loopholes. The script, written by
the Wachowski brothers is intelligent but carefully not geeky. The
kung-fu sequences were deftly shot -- something even Bruce Lee would've
been proud of. The photography was breathtaking. (I bet if you had to
cut every frame on the reel and had it developed and printed, every
single frame would stand on its own.) And the acting? Maybe not the
best Keanu Reeves but name me an actor who has box-office appeal but
could portray the uneasy and vulnerable protagonist, Neo, to a T the
way Reeves did. But, come to think of it, if you pit any actor beside
Laurence Fishburne, you're bound to confuse that actor for bad acting.
As Morpheus, Mr. Fishburne is simply wicked! Shades of his mentor-role
in Higher Learning, nobody exudes that aura of quiet intensity than Mr.
Fishburne. His character, battle-scarred but always composed Morpheus,
is given an extra dose of mortality (He loves Neo to a fault.) only Mr.
Fishburne can flesh out.People will say what they want to say about how good The Matrix is but
the bottomline is this: finally there's a philosophical film that has
cut through this generation. My generation. The Wachowski brothers
probably scribbled a little P.S. note when they finished the script
saying: THINK FOR A MOMENT ABOUT YOUR EXISTENCE. What is the Matrix,
you ask? Something that's closer to reality than you think.

******
31 July 2015
9
This is really nice movie. I liked all movie of this series. Use of
technology is amazing. quality of site is wonderful. "The Matrix" is a
visually dazzling cyberadventure, full of kinetic excitement, but it
retreats to formula just when it's getting interesting. It's kind of a
letdown when a movie begins by redefining the nature of reality, and
ends with a shoot-out. We want a leap of the imagination, not one of
those obligatory climaxes with automatic weapons fire.I've seen dozens if not hundreds of these exercises in violence, which
recycle the same tired ideas: Bad guys fire thousands of rounds, but
are unable to hit the good guy. Then it's down to the final showdown
between good and evil--a martial arts battle in which the good guy gets
pounded until he's almost dead, before he finds the inner will to fight
back. Been there, seen that (although rarely done this well).Too bad, because the set-up is intriguing. "The Matrix" recycles the
premises of "Dark City" and "Strange Days," turns up the heat and the
volume, and borrows the gravity-defying choreography of Hong Kong
action movies. It's fun, but it could have been more. The directors are
Larry and Andy Wachowski, who know how to make movies (their first
film, "Bound," made my 10 best list in 1996). Here, with a big budget
and veteran action producer Joel Silver, they've played it safer;
there's nothing wrong with going for the Friday night action market,
but you can aim higher and still do business.

******
25 June 2015
8
This is one of those films, that has so much meaning in it, its unreal!
However, the action scenes are incredible, and the concept is original.It starts with Neo (Reeves) living a dual life, one as a computer
hacker, one as a standard 9-5 office worker in a technology
conglomerate. After a strange dream, Neo awakens & never quite feels
normal, always questioning the blandness of his life.Once he is hacked, he is told to 'follow the rabbit down the hole',
which is the proceeded by a knock on the door. Once he answers the
door, he realizes it is just his friends asking him to join them on a
night out. Whilst he initially declines, Neo then spots a tattoo in the
shape of a white rabbit, and decides to listen to the earlier message
so he joins them on a night out.The film contains everything, from great acting, good dialogue and my
favorite is an original story line. The idea that we, as humans, are
happy to continue working 9 to 5, whilst questioning our purpose on
this planet. Coupled with our increased dependency on machines in the
modern age means that the idea that machines will eventually supersede
us is not a fairy tale concept.The action is great, with some of the characters now becoming infamous,
most noticeably Fishburne's character Morpheus, seen as a sensei- type,
but one with an incredibly high intellect, that teaches to ask the
right question then look for the right answer.On the downside, this film contained too many action film moments where
it was clearly possible to escape a fate, suspect a Judas-type moment,
or to act faster and therefore make life so much easier on themselves!Really great movie, which for me beckons the ultimate question: Would
you take the red pill, or the blue one?

******
29 May 2015
8
The Matrix (1999): Dir: Andy Wachowski, Larry Wachowski / Cast: Keanu
Reeves, Carrie-Anne Moss, Laurence Fishburne, Joe Pantoliano, Hugo
Weaving: Confusing film that assaults our senses with strange theories
and exhilarating action sequences. Keanu Reeves is picked up by agents
who force a mechanical object in through his navel and he awakens in
his own bed. Laurence Fishburne informs him that the Matrix is
everything around him. It is destined to keep people under control.
Reeves is presented with two pills. One will allow him to awaken
without memory of the incident, and the other one allows him to
discover whether or not he is the Missing Link. Directed by Larry and
Andy Wachowski showcasing distracting action scenes and interesting
theories. This is certainly a departure from their earlier film, Bound.
Reeves is appealing as someone thrusts out of ordinariness into the
overwhelming unknown. Fishburne makes for a fine instructor as he
allows Reeves the freedom of choice but cautions him on the
consequences. In other roles are the electrifying Carrie-Anne Moss, and
the double-crossing Joe Pantoliano as the villain. Hugo Weaving also
plays a villain named Agent Smith who has an array of special powers
that screws up more than one's brain. The action is exhilarating with
the most original combat scenes ever filmed. Overwhelming visual appeal
accompany the symbolism. Score: 8 / 10

******
19 April 2014
10
The reason why I gave this a 10 was not merely because I liked it. Not
merely because I thought it was cool and had a lot of action in it. No,
the reason why I liked it was because there was so much truth in it.
The idea behind The Matrix was that the "real" world is veiled to
humans. The world that humans live in is an world full of indulgence
and ignorance. This connects to the beliefs of Christianity, and that
the world we live in is controlled by Satan, who wants us to believe
that we live in a good world. Because of this, we are blinded to the
truth. Neo and the other rebels connect to today's Christians, who
understand this fact, and do their best to rebel against the enemy,
which is the world they once lived in. This analogy that the directors
used is great way to unveil the truth of the world, and for that reason
I give it a 10.

******
11 April 2014
9
The Matrix by the Wachowski Brothers is one of the best action films I
have ever seen. Along with great acting performances from Keanu Reeves
and the always great Laurence Fishburne, they have managed to create a
film that contains eye catching special effects, way ahead of its time
and a storyline that teaches you the value of human life against its
mass destruction. Hugo Weaving whom plays Agent Smith is the ultimate
bad guy. His originality as a villain sparks up even more excitement
when conflict starts between him and Neo (Keanu Reeves). It does not
take long for the action to start, which couldn't be better for a
typical action lover. The film has everything, action, thrills, martial
arts, superhuman abilities and love.

******
10 April 2014
10
i think this idea was original and gripping. i thought that the actors
were spot on and well cast and the story really captures ones
attention. it plays with a common super hero gets the girl and invites
you to dream on your curiosity, most people can relate to having a
double-life with an ultimate purpose where in your other life you're
this awesome powerful (what-ever) hero and you can be just like that
regular guy who finally took a chance on himself and it works out
brilliantly. because the underlying story here which grips you is the
selflessness in it all throughout every matrix movie. selflessness is
awesome and powerfully emotional. each character represents walks of
life, its our same story thats been told the same way 1 million
different ways & it still hooks you. i think it was a great and
pleasing remastered version none the less. :)

******
4 April 2014
9
Visually entertaining, thought-provoking and extremely well executed.
The Matrix has been on the top of my favorite films list for quite a
few years. I've heard a lot of people say it hasn't aged well, and I
have to strongly disagree and say that this movie was ahead of it's
time, making now (2014) a perfect time to watch it! While it's sequels
struggle to conduct a clear plot and fumbles around with countless
loopholes in logic, the original film doesn't have a single story
mistake (at least as far as I can think of!) and manages to follow
through with intelligence and cleverness. Style! Did I mention this
movie has style? In more ways than one. Not to mention a dozen pop
culture references, a solid cast, and unforgettable special effects.
The whole movie is laced with dialogue that becomes a brain game for
the audience, forcing them to think and ponder about whether or not
their own world is real or not. I know when I first watched it, I
started to get a bit paranoid! The overall atmosphere of the film is
one of awakening to your surroundings, the struggle between what people
tell you to feel, and what you truly feel. Rebellion, the challenging
of authority, being creative and the survival of human life. Overall,
the film is basically one big action packed, mentally stimulating and
gratifying present wrapped with a bow that is trying to say in the
biggest way possible: You can do anything if you believe..."Don't think you are, know you are" - Morpheus

******
29 March 2014
9
I could say this is a modern day allegory of "The Cave", but it is so
much more. I believe the movie redefined the science fiction genre film
from what I first saw it 15 years ago, and has even opened up new
gateways for various philosophies.In my opinion, this movie is all about taking chances and breaking free
from the monotonous dealings of everyday life; along with making
changes to be free from the shackles of one's personal limit.Another one of the themes it asks us: nothing is what it seems. It
gives us a sudden realization of what is hidden from us from plain
sight and the opportunity to see what's "underneath" the curtain of
illusion. It gave us the idea to question ourselves and the potentials
of our minds and our bodies.Say what you will about Keanu Reeves, after 15 years I cannot picture
anyone else for the role of Neo and that's saying a lot for the
character he has portrayed. He plays a convincing role of a frustrated
man living a normal life until he takes the pill of salvation.It is my number one best movie ever released, go see it!

******
22 March 2014
10
In 1999, a worker named Thomas Anderson works for a major world
software company, but is also the hacker Neo(an anagram for "One", his
title) by night. He is approached by an underground rebellion whose
ultimate goal is to give salvation to those trapped in a computer
simulation which shares the movie's name. This is the plot of the
Sci-Fi pinnacle of the 20th century, "The Matrix". The story is one of
the most unique of all time, and everything about the movie deserves
the immense praise. Lawrence Fishburne, Keanu Reeves, and others give
this movie a solid cast. The writing is solid and the many twists and
turns the producers introduce make you think just to a certain degree
for it to be enjoyable and not overly confusing. If you are planning to
watch this be young ones, I would recommend 13 and up(the movie is not
deserving of its R- Rating, it is more PG-13). The Matrix is a very
unique and fulfilling movie that will keep anyone on the edge and seat
and guessing! Amazing!!! 10/10

******
19 March 2014
10
This movie, which I find the Best of the Matrix trilogy, is an
innovation and a Pioneer in the field of Man-Machine relationship in
the human world. It very intricately brings out the Complex Equilibrium
that we ought to maintain, otherwise in presence of some 'Super
Intelligence' we might find it very difficult to control the
repercussions, even if it's not like the Matrix story line itself. It
signifies the spirit of Human Survival against all the odds; and also,
an urge to manifest one's desires as human, even in adverse
circumstances. Great acting by Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne,
Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, and others. Direction is of par
excellence, every bit of the movie mingles so well; and comes with
great surprises. Awesome piece of work by The Wachowski Brothers.

******
17 March 2014
10
excellent movie!In the near future, a computer hacker named Neo discovers that all life
on Earth may be nothing more than an elaborate facade created by a
malevolent cyber-intelligence, for the purpose of placating us while
our life essence is "farmed" to fuel the Matrix's campaign of
domination in the "real" world. He joins like-minded Rebel warriors
Morpheus and Trinity in their struggle to overthrow the Matrix. "The
Matrix" is a visually dazzling cyberadventure, full of kinetic
excitement, but it retreats to formula just when it's getting
interesting. It's kind of a letdown when a movie begins by redefining
the nature of reality, and ends with a shoot-out. We want a leap of the
imagination, not one of those obligatory climaxes with automatic
weapons fire.I've seen dozens if not hundreds of these exercises in violence, which
recycle the same tired ideas: Bad guys fire thousands of rounds, but
are unable to hit the good guy. Then it's down to the final showdown
between good and evil--a martial arts battle in which the good guy gets
pounded until he's almost dead, before he finds the inner will to fight
back. Been there, seen that (although rarely done this well).

******
8 March 2014
9
Rating-9/10The Matrix is a legendary Sci-Fi film with big effects, action and
adventure and serves up a superb film that can thoroughly be enjoyed.
With it's story with a thousand pieces, watching it is like a jigsaw
with pieces added in over and over making for a plot which is well done
and thought out. Some consider it a classic and it is easy to see why,
the effects are well done and the cast do an OK job too and coupled
with the plot and just even little things the creators have put in, it
turns out to be Brilliant and pretty flawless, and here is why I think
so below this.The story is fast, explaining all the things going on well and letting
the viewer take things in gently but by the end the story accelerates
and the action and adventure kicks in, a beautiful balance. As I said
the plot is smart and slick and for us the viewer predicting what is
next cannot be guessed, even if you know the basic plot, too much
happens to know at all what is happening. Within the story we have all
the famous slow motion fight scenes and they do wonders for the film
which succeeds with a perfect mix of violence but drama, thrilling yet
witty, it all goes well and I couldn't tell you to watch this more, if
you haven't already.I felt the cast aren't the best in this and Keanu Reeves in the lead
role is kind of stale and dull, very emotionless, but he doesn't do his
job that badly that the film is also Poor. Laurence Fishburne is OK in
his role and even if you think he is being emotionless that is just
what Morpheus is like anyway so his role is fine. Everyone else is fine
but no one excels in the entire cast and if anything the acting is this
movies weakest part, but it isn't bad though. Finally on the characters
they are fun, dark thinking and always serious but with a good mix of
Neo(he is oblivious) we see a fun start but by the end everything
everyone needs to know is already taken down.The Wachowski brothers do a great job with this, and to say this is
there biggest hit, well it really is and by far as it is well directed
by them and also written by them in a great way too. It serves up to be
fun but dramatic and although the fun side isn't expressed greatly, the
drama is good enough for it to be superb and the brothers knew what
they were doing here. I loved the effects, and to say they are in 1999
it is even better with some fantastic things on show and great
choreographed fight scenes(with a little effect added in) which are
just great to see with the eye, even if a little violent at times, and
maybe comic book style.The film can be too violent so maybe not for those who dislike that
kind of thing, the story I guess for some could be confusing and if you
don't listen to the entire story then you will lose what the whole
point of what there doing is about. Overall not too many criticisms but
I said about the acting and maybe the film is slow, but for those who
watch I think it is up to you to see any criticism, I am sure some will
dislike this movie so just have a watch and see what you think.People who enjoy a good action film wrapped in a smart plot will love
this and I couldn't tell them to see this more. Sci-Fi movie fans will
also love it and with such a rich Sci-Fi script and special effects it
could be some peoples favourite movie by the end of the film, also in
that mix the fight scenes could gain fans by themselves as little
movies before or since have implemented such an interesting and fast
Sci-Fi action film, dabbled with a little mystery.I give it a 9/10 meaning I thought it was just about a wonderful film,
and it is just stunning, if you attempt to rate this you get thrown up
with the acting and then the story, the special effects but is it too
confusing, but by the end you just feel you have seen a superb movie
that you enjoyed to the fullest. With the sequels regarded as some of
the worst sequels ever you can just sit back and savour the first one
and who knows, maybe you will enjoy the other instalments too.

******
8 March 2014
9
I personally think that the Matrix was and is still one of my favourite
movies today. I love watching science fiction movies but many do not
last in our memories or often talked about. There are many great
imaginations originated from the Matrix, and one of my favourite was
the technical aspect.From time to time, I sometimes still hear people referencing the
movie's bullet-time camera scene, to fighting scene, to the red pill or
blue pill talk around the water cooler.Since the creation of the Matrix, prices of consumer video cameras have
come down in prices and recently I am finding more people are putting
together clips similar to the bullet time used in the Matrix. Some of
the videos are amazing giving viewers different perspective looking at
a single scene.This is a good indication that the Matrix was well made and will be
talked about for many more years to come.

******
6 March 2014
8
My god my mind has exploded by the pure action of this movie. I love
the action and I think that it is giddily so funny to watch. The bullet
time is great. The jumping is great. The shooting is great. The writing
is . good maybe. Okay so the idea of The Matrix is good. It's probably
been done before. The whole idea is that the Matrix is a reality
created in a computer for humans to live in. I found this intriguing
and enjoyed this premise. But the writing. It's alright. This movie is
driven by action. The writing is in the backseat and the action is
driving the car. The movie is full of philosophical talking and one
liners. And it's not great. It works, but it's not great. The acting is
actually really good for a film like this. Keanu Reeves does a really
good job. Laurence Fishburne is awesome as Morpheus. Though there is
Hugo Weaving. He is an incredible villain that is benefited by the
strong part of the movie the action. He is meticulous and menacing
whenever he is on screen. The other cast is good, but not great.
However we should really talk about the better thing about this movie.
The action. Holy cow. Mind-blowing. Okay the tech is a little bit
primitive by now, but it really is effective. I mean the bullet time.
The slow motion work. It's amazing. It's so fun to watch. I will say
that that the settings of the film are also very creative. The way the
Matrix works, the scout ship. I love it. I will say that the costume
design is a little bit dated. The black trench coats are fun, but they
are a little but dated. I will say that my liking for this film is
dampened by the fact that I LOVE the Wachowski's better crafted and
amazing Cloud Atlas. Just because that movie is incredible and the fact
that this was also the Wachowski's other film I just had trouble with
taking this move as seriously. But its good. I give The Matrix an 8 out
of 10

******
23 February 2014
10
One of the best movies ever, classic during 1999. Cool, groundbreaking,
mind-twisting and simply phenomenal! A landmark science fiction
masterpiece, that set a whole new standard for out-of- the-box
film-making. Keanu Reeves may be dryer than a stick under the scorching
California sun, but I still think he was one of the greatest of all
possible casting choices for Neo. The true scene-stealer of the film,
however, is the mesmerizing brilliant Hugo Weaving, as the chilling and
calculative Agent Smith. He isn't the typical villain, but an extremely
intelligent baddie, whose every utterance is a fascinating piece of his
multi-faceted, yet cold-hearted mind. Of course, the real crowd-drawer
here though, is the visually spectacular special effects.

******
20 February 2014
10
Even in 2014 this film has something magic. With his stunning effects
and a mind blowing story-telling, story-structure and bad-ass
characters this movie is still one of the best movies in the world.
Just the confrontation with philosophical questions of our life and the
"fantasy of science-fiction" makes this movie to one of the must-seen
films in history. I don't think that Matrix just got his success with
the really cool presentation, more important the mix of the really well
told story, character development and environment complexity gives the
movie the required plus to be a 10 Star movie. I even think that the
next two movies of the Matrix trilogy are really good too. I would give
the whole Matrix-trilogy a 10 out of 10!

******
17 February 2014
9
Is the world that we know today really what it seems? Does it seem like
we live an orchestrated life defined by what society deems as
important? And does it seem that our lives are overly governed by the
many rules of both man and nature? These questions are the main
currents of Andy and Lana Wachowski's movie The Matrix which challenges
what we see as reality today. Thomas A. Anderson, an orchestrated computer programmer during the day,
lives a dual life where he is known as Neo online through his late
night computer hacking. Beyond his day job Neo, played by Keanu Reaves,
has always sensed and imagined that there was something hidden
elsewhere beyond what he considered reality at the time. After receiving messages and a phone call from an unknown source later
identified as Morpheus, played by Laurence Fishbourne, Neo joins a
rebellion and becomes aware of the struggle to battle a war against
machines in a post human driven world known as the matrix. The matrix
is a software system imposed on humans by machines that limits their
understanding and capabilities of reality. Neo becomes "the one" as
referred to by Morpheus. He is pressed with the problem of breaking the
bounds of the matrix and freeing mankind from the control of the
machines before the last known unrestricted humans are eliminated. Neo along with his arch rival Agent Smith, who is a machine within
human form, counter each other's personalities in a way that makes the
distinction between man and machine that much greater. Agent smith,
played by Hugo Weaving, illustrates the emotionless task oriented
function of machines. His name in particular suggests the
generalization and uniformity of machines. Neo's name contrasts this
generalization expressing the individuality of humans as a
representative symbol. Hugo Weaving's deep monotonic tone compared to
Neo's softer relaxed tone contrasts each other's characters further
against one other leading to an even greater distinction between man
and machines.Adding to the distinction of the men controlled by the machines and the
men aware of the society ran by the matrix, is the acting of Laurence
Fishbourne. Fishbourne as Morpheus is part of the rebellion against the
matrix and separates himself from the matrix by his aurora as an all
knowing character. His elevated presence and his subtle cues of knowing
what is to come next lead to the greater disparity between himself and
the people around him. These details portrayed by the main actors lead
to the best illustration of a thematic idea unprecedented in a movie up
until today.That unprecedented idea is a movie based on what seems to be reality
versus what reality actually is. Likewise artificial intelligence used
by mankind in turn fights itself against man in a way that ironically
makes humans look less human in the machine made artificial reality. A
complex and highly in depth idea for any person to think of let alone
direct and visualize clearly. Irony plays it's part also in the scene
that describes how machines took over the world during the turn of the
20th century. Instead of humans using machines to help in their energy
consumption, Andy and Lana Wachowski have turned the tables in this
film. Machines instead farm humans in order to get their energy to run
and operate the matrix. The dominator and dominated have essentially
flipped roles. The originality of the futuristic film The Matrix
questions the viewers perception of what is and isn't real while the
actors used within the film support the direction that the film takes
which ultimately leaves the viewers questioning and wanting to see
more!

******
10 February 2014
10
the best movies of all,But the movie has plot as well. It has
characters that I cared about. From Keanu Reeves' excellent portrayal
of Neo, the man trying to come to grips with his own identity, to
Lawrence Fishburne's mysterious Morpheus, and even the creepy Agents,
everyone does a stellar job of making their characters more than just
the usual action "hero that kicks butt" and "cannon fodder" roles. I
cared about each and every one of the heroes, and hated the villains
with a passion. It has a plot, and it has a meaning...and lo and
behold, a plot does help the fight scenes! Just try it, if you haven't
seen the movie before. Watch one of the fight scenes. Then watch the
whole movie. There's a big difference in the feeling and excitement of
the scenes- sure, they're great as standalones, but the whole thing put
together is an experience unlike just about everything else that's come
to the theaters. Think about it next time you're watching one of the
more brainless action flicks...think how much better it COULD be.

******
19 January 2014
10
"The Matrix" is a visually dazzling cyberadventure, full of kinetic
excitement. I've seen dozens if not hundreds of these exercises in violence, which
recycle the same tired ideas: Bad guys fire thousands of rounds, but
are unable to hit the good guy. Then it's down to the final showdown
between good and evil--a martial arts battle in which the good guy gets
pounded until he's almost dead, before he finds the inner will to fight
back. Been there, seen that; however this one is an exception, as it
done very well.Still, I must not ignore the movie's virtues. It's great-looking, both
in its design and in the kinetic energy that powers it. It uses
flawlessly integrated special effects and animation to visualize
regions of cyberspace. It creates fearsome creatures, including
mechanical octopi. It morphs bodies with the abandon of "Terminator
II." It uses f/x to allow Neo and Trinity to run horizontally on walls,
and hang in the air long enough to deliver karate kicks. It has leaps
through space, thrilling sequences involving fights on rooftops,
helicopter rescues and battles over mind control.And it has performances that find the right notes. Keanu Reeves goes
for the impassive Harrison Ford approach, "acting" as little as
possible. I suppose that's the right idea. Laurence Fishburne finds a
balance between action hero and Zen master. Carrie-Anne Moss, as
Trinity, has a sensational title sequence, before the movie recalls
that she's a woman and shuttles her into support mode. Hugo Weaving, as
the chief Agent, uses a flat, menacing tone that reminded me of Tommy
Lee Jones in passive-aggressive overdrive. There's a well-acted scene
involving Gloria Foster as the Oracle, who like all Oracles is
maddeningly enigmatic."The Matrix" did not bore me. It interested me so much, indeed, that I
wanted to be challenged even more. I wanted it to follow its material
to audacious conclusions, to arrive not simply at victory, but at
revelation.

******
19 January 2014
8
A must-see among genre fans, especially guys in their teens and 20s,
for whom the script's pretentious mambo-jumbo of undergraduate
mythology, religious mysticism and tech-babble could even be a plus
rather than a dramatic liability. Its a high tech sci-fi must see film.
inspired by different sources (including Japanese anime), The Matrix is
a new kind of movie, a visionary mixture of technology, philosophy and
thrilling action.Where other films are done in by the freedom offered
by computer effects, The Matrix integrates them beautifully.Exemplifies
the idea that a sufficiently cool outcome justifies all of the tortured
narrative it takes to get there.

******
16 January 2014
9
The Matrix can be interpreted as a political statement about people
being products of society, illustrating how easily people can fall
victim to the demands of societal expectations. I use the term
'society' in this review to define the unwritten laws of human culture
that systematically critique individuality, and not to define the
establishment of a people.The Matrix represents society. Agent Smith represents the effort of
society to assimilate and convert. Morpheus and the gang defy these
societal expectations within a pocket of opposition, much like human
rights groups in real life; but with a central hero that stands alone,
which promotes the fact that anyone - in a group or not - can stand
against conformity and fight to be unique.A machine with a mind of its own, society attempts to enslave and
assimilate us through breaking us down so that we can be built back up
under its control. We are told what to believe. How to think. How to
feel, what to feel and when. We are given opinions, given identical
options to choose from; given instructions for how to choose.
Everything else, every choice, every action, every word, is taboo or
unacceptable.A fear begins to creep in of anything that differs from society's
opinion, completing the assimilation as society's message is accepted
by and transferred through its slaves. They complain about and insult
those who act out of the ordinary, with popular comments including,
"Why do you hold doors open for people? You're must be
attention-starved," "You can't dance, why do you try? You're just
embarrassing yourself," "Stop working so hard, you're a tool," etc.,
etc.These insulting critiques promote societal standards through their
complaints, digging at the minds of others (potential slaves) to
corrode their willpower and prepare them for assimilation. Most people
concede and comply without putting up much of a fight; it's an
endurance race with no finish line, so all it takes for enslavement is
time... unless they refuse to run, and instead fight back.The slaves aren't always aware of the societal forces at work here, but
if only subconsciously they want to break us down and force our hand.
They claim superiority and perfection with no credibility, and too many
people listen and give in. This is their hope, their intent, their
bliss; this is what the beast of society strives for, and thus also
what its slaves desire. There is great power in numbers, and people are
taught not to bite the hand that feeds; these slaves will gladly serve
without question, as long as they can feel accepted, being fed
validation.Neo represents anybody that is willing to stand up and fight back no
matter what the cost, with a will that sets him apart from the other
characters - in the movie, as a "Chosen" bad-ass; in the real world, as
a beacon for acceptance of social diversity and individualism. The
message here is that even if you're not a Neo, it is better to be a
Trinity or a Morpheus and support the Neos of the world, than to be an
Agent Smith and drag the world down to monotonous ruin.The Matrix is a well-disguised call to action, one that both excites
lovers of entertainment and inspires those who realize that the world
needs more prominent Neos to rise up against conformity; to withstand
the machine that is societal assimilation. It puts a culture of social
obedience on display in a visually stunning and imaginatively thrilling
way.I write this just shy of 15 years since its release, and this movie
still presents a dead-on interpretation of society's drive to convert
individuality into what it expects of people - and the unbreakable will
of those that fight for the freedom to be unique.9/10 - A sign of the times, and a movie for the ages.

******
13 January 2014
10
If you like action films, then this movie is a must-watch. It
revolutionized arguably the entire sci-fi action-movie industry in the
neo-20th century when it was first released (pun intended - of course).
Anyhow, I did not come on here to just marvel at the screenplays of the
movie. In fact, I came on here to marvel about the philosopher or the
philosophy that the Wachowski brothers have studied, written, and
directed. The idea of simulacrum as proposed by the post-modernist French
philosopher Jean Baudrillard is that everything in this world has now
lost originality because there have been too many replicas that have
replaced the original that there now exists no original in any way or
form. I mean how would any and all of us feel when we are faced with
the lite-threatening questions of: who am I? What makes me who I am?
Did I choose to become who I am or did I simply choose to mask myself
with the personas that I have seen and studied on TVs, Movies,
magazines, etc.? How do I then choose to become who I am? Can I truly
call myself an original form or am I just a replica of other notable
personas that I have chosen to adopt throughout my life time? (Does Neo
choose to live in the blissful ignorance of illusion or the sometimes
painful truth of reality)(noted by Wikipedia.com by searching "Neo blue
and red pill")?Anyhow, mix that formula with the exponential growth of technology and
machines, Wachowski directors have successfully drowned any and all
existence of mankind in the form of machine-controlled (plugged-in)
"batteries". Of course, this is where the existence of Zion, ship Nebuchadnezzar,
Morpheus, and Neo kick in to free what is left of civilization from the
machine's oppression... and "Action!"Anyhow, what I've written is only a glimpse of what the directors have
studied and tried to portray on the screens. Nevertheless, it is a
masterpiece that has forever revolutionized the ways in which action
movies are filmed now. Mad kudos to the brothers for such a fantastic
film and thank you.

******
12 January 2014
9
Keanu Reeves stars as Thomas Anderson, a skilled Computer
programmer/Computer Hacker who goes by the name of Neo. The film,
all-in- all, is absolutely incredible. I have never seen such an epic
science- fiction film with as much intense action, scenes of fighting,
inspiring acting, shock and awe and...and just so much more. The
Wachowski Brothers really made this film what it is. Them, Reeves and
of course the supporting cast, Hugo Weaving, Carrie-Anne Moss and
Laurence Fishburne. Hugo Weaving as the co-star casting as the main
villain "Agent Smith" trying to destroy the city of Zion and keep
humans from making the escape from the Matrix. This film is entirely
brilliant and it has one of the highest ratings, as you'll see, on
IMDb. It's certainly in my top 3 science-fictions of all-time. Any
Sci-Fi fan will love this film and this is seriously the best of all
three parts. A masterpiece of a film and I would not be able to
understand how anyone could dislike it.....though, I have never met
someone who has.....! 10/10.

******
4 January 2014
9
This trilogy is very beautifully made and thought, in an alternative
universe, where machines maintain humans in a so called world "Matrix".
There characters were well chosen. Script was well made. Graphic
scenery was well made as well. Great movie, I still watch it now a
days. Simply amazing! I really enjoy movies that are made/created in an
alternative dimension/universe. Interesting thought, us being
controlled by machines/users, as we can control Sims in The Sims games.
Very unique distinction from other movies. This trilogy, can be very
easily watched in a whole day, and you still could ask for more, what
happen after the end? Very nice movie, recommend it to anyone.

******
2 January 2014
9
I love this movie! it's action packed and great for anyone, considering
age. You may find it confusing, but most is explained in the following
movies. There are many parts, for instance, when Neo first leaves the
Matrix that make you think. The use of digital effects is stunningly
realistic and wowing. If you end up enjoying this movie, you would
enjoy the sequels, when you follow Neo and the others through the
Matrix, fighting the machines that did this to them. As the brave man
Neo is, he can prove to the world, of man and of machine, that he
indeed is the chosen one.i give this movie a 9 out of 10 and believe it
is defiantly worth watching.

******
30 December 2013
10
I watched this movie as a child, way before i should have seen it to
understand it fully the first time around.That has created an effect that i believe that has changed me all the
way through today. I didn't get it the first time, so i was curious, so
i watched it again, and again, and again. Until i understood it. It's a
great way to question your existence when you're down (sorry to hear
that btw) and an amazing way to confirm it if you feel confident (you
go girl!)This movie had the ability to change me and I believe those are the
movies worth watching! So go ahead!

******
28 December 2013
10
Love all these movies. Hoping they make another! Possibly use all the
same actors and not so much time on fight scenes, although they are
spectacular. Maybe do one before, showing how the Matrix was started
and focus mainly on that. Love all these movies. Hoping they make
another! Possibly use all the same actors and not so much time on fight
scenes, although they are spectacular. Maybe do one before, showing how
the Matrix was started and focus mainly on that.Love all these movies.
Hoping they make another! Possibly use all the same actors and not so
much time on fight scenes, although they are spectacular. Maybe do one
before, showing how the Matrix was started and focus mainly on that.

******
25 December 2013
8
Thomas Anderson is a man searching for answers, by day a respectable
computer programmer, by night the infamous hacker known only as Neo.
When fate brings him to the attention of the man simply known as
Morpheus, his entire perception of reality is shaken and the truth is
discovered about the true nature of the very world and mans existence
within it. Neo will learn of the prophecy foretelling the coming of the
One and the forces opposed to him and all humankind, and the answer to
the question, what is the Matrix?One of the most visually appealing films to have graced the silver
screen. A truly original and unique film going experience with mind
bending action, the Wachowskis bring the first of their mind bending
trilogy to the screen. Philosophical at its very core that leads one to
believe that this ground breaking film is more than just a simple
action film. Highly original in its story and well acted by its
principal players is a must see for any fan of film. One of those films
that must not only be viewed but experience by the viewer. Reeves and
Fishburne fit into their roles respectively and do a masterful job of
bringing the heroism, suspense and intrigue to the forefront. Reeves
who isn't known for his stellar performances, really outdoes himself
and what may go down as his most iconic and famous role of his career.
The film is a mind bending ride that deliverers in its attempt to not
only sweep away the viewers but truly invests the viewer in not only
the story and characters but in the alter techno fantastic world of The
Matrix.

******
25 December 2013
10
My dad called my name, and said "you've got to see this!"I walked into the living room and just stood there, watching the TV
screen. It was the Matrix. He had rented it from Blockbuster. I was 10.Carrie-Anne Moss kicking ass. Doing weird stuff in leather- killing a
squad of police officers, jumping over roof gaps, skydiving through a
tiny window. I was riveted. Was she a mutant, or maybe some sort of
superhero? Then she picks up a pay phone, and you hear that dial up sound I knew
from the internet modem. It was really strange, because a man in a
business suit runs over the phone booth with a 8 wheeler truck, but she
has disappeared. & so on. The Matrix immediately became one of my favorite movies, along with
Dark City & The Truman Show. (I was a weird kid.) It put a new context
to philosophical concepts like "brain in the vat," "free will vs.
determinism" & "existential rebellion." It was terrifying to think
about: what if my whole life is an illusion? There didn't seem to be
any way to prove it one way or the other. Many people have gone mad
trying to think about it.The Matrix was the perfect movie for its time. Neo is the hero of my
generation, a computer hacker taking on the machine, a Messiah with
punk-rock values. In some ways, this movie is the antithesis of modern
Christianity, because instead of 'life after death' the Matrix promotes
'truth on earth.' The hero questions everything, especially authority
(Agent Smith). I went to a private Christian School, and I'm so glad I
got to see this movie to counterbalance what was being forced into my
head.There's so much more to touch upon. Morpheus' character. Cipher.
Artificial Intelligence. The perfectly underplayed love story between
Neo and Trinity. The big question: Why didn't the machines use a more
obvious, easy, efficient fuel source, such as nuclear power? Why go
through all the hassle of hooking up human beings to a virtual-reality
world?I was very lucky to be born in 1989, right before the peak of Western
Civilization. (According to Agent Smith.) I ask myself what was the
most formative movie of my boyhood: the way I view society, thoughts
about my place in the universe, my approach to love: Fight Club? The
Truman Show? Dark City?Nah. It's got to be The Matrix.

******
18 December 2013
9
"The Matrix is a computer generated dream world built to keep us under
control in order to change human being into this (a battery)", says
Morpheus at the beginning scenes of his appearance in The Matrix. The
Matrix (1999) is a clever display featuring the inner reality of a few
beings believing they are prisoned in the world of a viciously designed
program, a world of numbers which master has designed it perfectly but
in which people choose a life of misery and pain, never realizing they
are slaves. Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), the leader of those chosen
few, has long been searching for the One and sincerely believes in him
in a madness kind of way that is ready to sacrifice his life for him
and later we find out that he actually does when he tries to keep one
of the 3 seemingly immortal and mastermind agents from harming Neo
(Keanu Reeves). Neo, according to his profile, is an alias of Thomas A.
Anderson, a law abiding program writer for a respectable software
company, whose double life is letting him to also be a professional
hacker in an underworld criminal society. At first, despite Morpheus's
phone guidance, he gets arrested by cops and gets investigated and
bugged by the agents but then Morpheus's group comes to rescue him and
as in later, so called free him. They make some changes in his body and
give him a second birth to become one of them. After all it was his own
choice to be in wonderland when he chose red pill over blue one which
would ended the story for him. In his waking up in hover craft, Neo
asks Morpheus "What is this place?" and he gets answered by a more
important question; "When". They don't know what year it exactly is but
it's almost 200 years ahead in the future. In the white room inside the
computer program, Neo faces with more mind twisting questions like
"What is real?" or "How do you define real?" which confuses him even
more but are essential to the answer of the question, "What is the
Matrix?". What is more intriguing to see in The Matrix is the amazing
scenes of works of visual effects which are perfectly mastered under
the directorship of the Wachowski Brothers who are also the writers for
this feature. However, the screenplay is been written in a way that in
order to understand the final mission of Morpheus and his left crew, it
seems inevitable to follow the sequel of this trilogy but as a friend
who believed this movie has much more to say once told me: "You should
read between the lines". As at the end of the movie when Neo is being
shot several times by agent Smith for whose willingness to be free, he
must get the codes to get inside Zayan, for a moment the happy ending
of goodness's triumph over evil gets shadowed by the fact that
everything is already falling apart and nothing is going to make things
right again in any possible way. But then once again comes the miracle
of love and Trinity's whispering to Neo works out by making him realize
that he is the One and that Oracle's prophecy of her falling in love
with him (the One) has become true and that brings him back to life;
like Sleeping Beauty (1959) a kiss on the lips  and goodness triumphs
evil.

******
15 December 2013
9
The Wachowski brothers directed this innovate blockbuster hit that
stars Keanu Reeves as Mr. Anderson, who is an ordinary computer
programmer suddenly thrust into a new reality(which he had always
suspected) when government agents led by Mr. Smith(played by Hugo
Weaving) target him for interrogation after he is contacted by computer
hacker Morpheus(played by Laurence Fishburne) about his true destiny as
"The One", renamed Neo, who will lead the enslaved humans to rebel
against their machine masters who have created a false world in order
to fool and control humans. Only by escaping this state can Neo begin
this fight... Exciting and thought-provoking film filled with fantastic
action scenes and memorable characters. Fine acting too; co-stars
Carrie Ann-Moss as Trinity, and has a thrilling ending, though two
sequels would follow.

******
17 November 2013
6
Reeves is the "chosen one" to defeat a bunch of supercomputers
controlling the world with a matrix. Some of the clichéd dialog tells
you that the plot and characters are just background music to show off
some really huge and grossly ugly special effects. I especially dislike
the scene where Reeves and his female partner break into the high
security skyscraper to defeat the forces that have imprisoned Morpheus
(Lawrence Fishburne}. He is armed the neck with weapons and ammunition
to blast hundreds of people away. I cannot help but think how this
might have inspired James Holmes when he went to a Batman movie in a
costume concealing a similar arsenal around his chest to shoot twenty
or thirty people. People who produce these ultra violent shows are
mechanics who never think about what the end results of their work
might be.

******
15 November 2013
10
this it the best film still now. i enjoyed every single part of this
movie.NEO i love you. we want you back. matrix is in inside me.Oscar WINNER: Best Editing Best Visual Effects Best Sound Best Sound
EffectsA theatrical blockbuster at the time of its release in 1999, The Matrix
proved to be a mind-blowing advancement in cinematic visual effects.Set in the 22nd century, The Matrix tells the story of a computer
hacker (Keanu Reeves) who joins a group of underground insurgents
fighting the vast and powerful computers who now rule the earth.In addition to amazing effects, the stellar cast, including Laurence
Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving and Joe Pantoliano, helped
make The Matrix a modern sci-fi classic.

******
11 November 2013
10
Who hasn't seen this movie and what can be said that hasn't already.This movie takes an original idea, computer graphics, great characters,
charismatic actors, a wonderfully imaginative script and turns science
fiction on its head.Who is "The One" destined to change the plight of mankind. Does he even
exist?Do not miss this film. Sci Fi fan or no this movie delivers. This movie
has a lot of action and there is considerable violence but the violence
is so beautifully choreographed that it becomes its own art form. My
most vivid memories are of the savagery somehow turned into alluring
music. Who can forget the shot of the Vulcan gun firing from the
helicopter hovering outside the office building as it shreds a room
during the rescue of Morpheous? Its one of the most beautifully shot
scenes in my memory topped only by the slow motion storming of the
office building by Trinity and Neo.A small group of dissidents set out to free mankind from the grip of an
omnipotent computer. Will they succeed? Is there any point to resisting
anyway? We'll just have to see.

******
7 November 2013
10
The Movie is the best Action and Science Fiction movie I ever seen. I
loved it so much along with the sequels. I Even brought the Four
collection case of the movies. I will watch them every once in a while.
I like the main character (Neo), who I use to wish when I was young
could meet his actor Keanu Reeves. I thought Morpheus was good but I
thought he looked like a guy you can not trust which is why I
understand Neo did not. Trinity was good. I like her in this film
better than the sequels. She was a hot-head in 2 and 3. Agent Smith was
kind of cool but I was annoyed that Him in the rest of the Agents were
almost unbedable. It was great and fun to watch and it is definitely a
good prequel to watch first before you see a sequel.

******
7 November 2013
9
I recommend this film, it was and it still is one of my favorite movie
of all time. Neo's transformation up until the last movie was pretty
much the same though. If you like fighting, shooting, philosophical
questions, awesomeness, slow-mo, then this is the movie for you. Neo
flying at the end was a bit to much but i guess it fits with him being
able to conquer the world that once controlled him. the part where NEO
enters Agent smith, that part was a bit puzzling for me, I didn't
understand why he would have to do that. Neo needed a new body? he came
back to life. what was the purpose of he going in to SMITH? I'm sure
Neo didn't know he was going to destroy SMITH by going into his body.
or else he would've done the same to the other agents that were in
front of him. Then again, he was in a hurry to save Trinity and
Morpheus. Oh that's right he was, instead of running to his right to
get the phone which he had enough time to do. He goes stands there,
stops the bullets, runs into SMITH... Trinity and Morpheus hold on...
scares the other agents away, then he runs back to the phone. i guess
what I'm trying to say is that the ending could have been better and
more rewarding. Neo is basically immortal in the Matrix, his heart
stopped, nope, come back to life he says. Smith tried to control him,
nope, denied he says. If Neo can defy physics by flying, by stopping
bullets in mid air, and coming back to life. why not use that power to
stop SMITH in the first place, he stopped bullets, what is he using to
stopped them. couldn't he use the same power for other stuff or does it
only apply to bullets? If Neo had never gone inside Smith, smith
wouldn't had multiplied. I guess Smith was needed to move the plot
forward for the next two movies. eventually ending the war between man
and machine that went on hundreds of years with a lame truce.

******
1 November 2013
10
One of the best movies ever. The idea is very interesting and everyone
who loves conspiracy themes will find this good! This is the first part
of three movie parts which includes most of the information. I like how
the actors got into their lines. Only laurence fishburne has not
satisfy me good enough! Still this is one of my favorite movies of this
genre and i can really tell everyone to watch it, and listen to the
little details at the background. I think, the only way to really feel
what the writer wanted to show us is to watch it on a big screen with a
good sound. The soundtrack is a classic and if you watch it in a dark
atmosphere you will notice how you get into the theme.

******
30 October 2013
9
Though this movie is pretty dated, the special effects are top notch. I
was actually very surprised I was watching something that wasn't just
made! There is quite a lot of violence, and it was particularly
gruesome when the bug crawled in the protagonists belly button, but
other than that, this movie should have been rated PG-13, because I
have seen many PG-13 movies that are worse than this R one. This movie
is a bit violent, but its nothing more mature kids can't handle. It has
some good messages in it. Even when Morpheus was captured the Agents,
and the others wanted to kill him before he gave them any information,
Neo was determined to get him out of there and did. He never gave up on
his friend and saved Morpheus's life. The violence and swearing in this
is definitely PG-13 and not R.

******
29 October 2013
9
This brilliant film, no this perfect film, is so revolutionary for
filmmakers- so inspiring for story writers- and of course a huge leap
for martial arts films, I would say it is the best science Fiction film
I have seen.I would make a bet against any type of person- to watch this film, all
the way through and say they didn't enjoy just a little bit. It has
everything for any type of person- it has romance, it has action- it
has fantasy."Movie" a movie to me is a dream- a movie to me is an adventure- a
movie for me is an escape, a drug to take from my life for and hour and
a half or if I'm lucky two hours+ and this movie ticks all those box
from start to finish forgot your problems and watch this "Perfect
movie" Thanks for reading :D

******
25 October 2013
9
there are good film-makers and then there are excellent film-makers.but what the wachowski brothers did in this trilogy is create an
alternate reality so fine, highly detailed and realistic that if
someone planned to enslave whole humanity by trapping their minds in a
virtually realistic computer program, then movie movie makes a
practical handbook for them.i have seen the whole matrix trilogy at least a dozen time. and trust
me when i say that every single time i saw these movies, i could
understand and realise something more and more every single time. i
have come to a point that watching this movie has become a
philosophical experience.

******
19 October 2013
9
"The Matrix" is a visually dazzling cyber adventure, full of kinetic
excitement, but it retreats to formula just when it's getting
interesting. It's kind of a letdown when a movie begins by redefining
the nature of reality, and ends with a shoot-out. We want a leap of the
imagination, not one of those obligatory climaxes with automatic
weapons fire.Warning; spoilers ahead. The plot involves Neo (Keanu Reeves), a
mild-mannered software author by day, a feared hacker by night. He's
recruited by a cell of cyber-rebels, led by the profound Morpheus
(Laurence Fishburne) and the leather-clad warrior Trinity (Carrie-Anne
Moss). They've made a fundamental discovery about the world: It doesn't
exist. It's actually a form of Virtual Reality, designed to lull us
into lives of blind obedience to the "system." We obediently go to our
crummy jobs every day, little realizing, as Morpheus tells Neo, that
"Matrix is the wool that has been pulled over your eyes--that you are a
slave." The rebels want to crack the framework that holds the Matrix in
place, and free mankind. Morpheus believes Neo is the Messianic "One"
who can lead this rebellion, which requires mind power as much as
physical strength. Arrayed against them are the Agents, who look like
Blues Brothers. The movie's battles take place in Virtual Reality; the
heroes' minds are plugged into the combat. (You can still get killed,
though: "The body cannot live without the mind"). "Jacking in" like
this was a concept in "Strange Days" and has also been suggested in
novels by William Gibson ("Idoru") and others. The notion that the
world is an artificial construction, designed by outsiders to deceive
and use humans, is straight out of "Dark City." Both of those movies,
however, explored their implications as the best science fiction often
does. "Dark City" was fascinated by the Strangers who had a poignant
dilemma: They were dying aliens who hoped to learn from human methods
of adaptation and survival.

******
13 October 2013
10
It is so action movie. I see it some day before. I watch it in my
computer. Before I watch this my friend told this movie. He told me to
see it. Than I inspire about this movie. So I can't wait and I see it.
I love action. So like it very much. So I told everyone should see
it.The Matrix is a 1999 AmericanвЂ"Australian science fiction activity
blur accounting and directed by The Wachowski Brothers, and
starringKeanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Joe
Pantoliano, and Hugo Weaving. It depicts a dystopian approaching in
which absoluteness as perceived by a lot of bodies is in fact a apish
absoluteness alleged "the Matrix", created by acquainted machines to
subdue the animal population, while their bodies' calefaction and
electrical activity are acclimated as an activity source. Computer
programmer "Neo" learns this accuracy and is fatigued into a apostasy
adjoin the machines, which involves added humans who accept been freed
from the "dream world".The Matrix is accepted for popularizing a beheld aftereffect accepted
as "bullet time", in which the acute acumen of assertive characters is
represented by acceptance the activity aural a attempt to advance in
slow-motion while the camera's angle appears to move through the arena
at accustomed speed. The blur is an archetype of the cyberpunk science
fiction genre.[3] It contains abundant references to abstract and
religious ideas, and noticeably pays account to works such as Jean
Baudrillard's Simulacra and Simulation[4] andLewis Carroll's Alice's
Adventures in Wonderland. The Wachowskis' access to activity scenes
drew aloft their account forJapanese animation[5] and aggressive arts
films, and the film's use of activity choreographers and wire fu
techniques from Hong Kong activity cinema was affecting aloft
consecutive Hollywood activity blur productions.The Matrix was aboriginal appear in the United States on March 31,
1999, and grossed over $460 actor worldwide. It was about well-received
by critics, and won four Academy Awards as able-bodied as added
accolades including BAFTA Awards and Saturn Awards. Reviewers accepted
The Matrix for its avant-garde beheld effects, cinematography and its
entertainment. The film's apriorism was both criticized for getting
acquired of beforehand science fiction works, and accepted for getting
intriguing. The activity as well polarized critics, some anecdotic it
as impressive, but others absolution it as a banal aberration from an
absorbing premise.Despite this, the blur has back appeared in lists of the greatest
science fiction films, and in 2012, was added to the National Blur
Registry for preservation.[11] The success of the blur led to the
absolution of two affection blur sequels, both accounting and directed
by the Wachowskis, The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix Revolutions The
Matrix authorization was added broadcast through the assembly of banana
books, video games, and activated abbreviate films in which the
Wachowskis were heavily involved.

******
12 October 2013
8
My friend commented on how the theme in this movie really appeals to
him at this time. There a numerous ideas that come out of this movie,
and most importantly, for me to describe it, I will have to give a lot
away. As such, I shall warn those who are going to read this, if you
don't want your enjoyment of this film ruined, then I suggest you cease
reading now.The major theme in this movie is what is reality. As such it follows
the themes of movies such as The Truman Show, News From the Good Lord
and Dark City, all of which are movies that I love. The difference with
The Matrix is that it is much more action orientated. As such it should
appeal to those who love post-modern movies and want a lot to think
about, and it should appeal to those who love special effects and huge
amounts of action.The movie is based around a man named Neo. He is a computer hacker and
is being sort out by Morpheus, an unknown person. Morpheus is also
being pursued by agents of some organisation that seem to be able to
remove peoples' mouths, though to Neo this becomes a dream. When Neo
finally finds Morpheus, he learns that everything that he knows is a
dream. Reality is in fact far different. Neo is one of billions of
people plugged into a huge computer system. He is there because in the
early 21st century, humanity lost a war with the machines, and during
that war the earth was blocked off from the sun. To get the energy they
needed, the machines began to use humans. As such, they created an
artificial environment in which humans live, and as they live, the
machines live off of the electricity that the human brain produces.Basically the world in which Neo lives is not real - it seems real, but
in reality there are things that happen that suspend his disbelief. He
asks somebody at the beginning of the movie if he ever feels like he
lives in a dream. The reply is "of course, all the time" but this comes
from the mouth of a drug induced person. Once Neo is out of the matrix,
he learns that Morpheus considers him to be the reincarnation of a
saviour, one who can manipulate the matrix to his will. He also learns
that these agents are not humans but security programs created by the
machine to stop the free humans from destroying their power. These
security programs are incredibly powerful in the matrix, but have no
power outside of it. In the matrix that can appear wherever they like,
do whatever they like, and take whatever form they like. In fact they
will possess other people (or personas - the person's computer image -
their real existence is in a tube in the side of a huge machine).There are a number of Christian parallels in this movie (though they
are not intentional considering the idea is more Buddhist than
Christian). The major one is in regards to the matrix and the reality.
The world is like the matrix - it is real but we refuse to look beyond
it to the heavenly realms. To us the heavenly realms are a fantasy and
the world we live in is solid reality and when it comes to miraculous
things then we conveniently look for a way to disprove them and if we
can't then we ignore them. The truth is that heaven is very much
reality, and this world is only a temporary existence created by God
for us to inhabit. Neo takes the form of a Christ figure. He was in the matrix once and
began the plan to remove people from the matrix and give them back
their freedom just as Christ came to Earth to die for our sins in
preparation for judgement day when we face God and explain to him why
he should not destroy us. Neo's return parallel's Jesus' return. At
first he seems like nothing, but the oracle tells him that he will be
the one perhaps in his next life. This prediction comes true as he is
killed, but as he has died in the matrix, he comes back to life. The
matrix is not reality, and though most people, when killed in the
matrix, will die in reality, the most hardy and strong willed of people
can survive - Neo is such a person - but when he returns to life it
becomes evident that he has gained immense power over the matrix. The final thing that I must raise is the description of Zion - the
place where everybody will party once the machine has been defeated.
This is a very biblical reference, and I think this is made in the
movie as well. Zion is the hill upon which Jerusalem is built, so
wherever one reads the word Zion in the bible, one reads Jerusalem. The
city of Jerusalem does not correspond to the geographical city but it
symbolises the place where God will live with his people. The reason
that Jerusalem is used in this way is because it was the city where
God's temple was built in the time of the Old Testament, and where the
temple was, that was where God lived. The reference to Zion in The
Matrix is a reference to the fact that when Christ returns, all who
trusted in him will be in paradise, all that is rotten and decayed
having passed away.

******
6 October 2013
10
I loved movie that has its own world. You know, like "The Matrix" that
makes the audience open their mind and start to think of the idea of
the movie. I like it, when amazing cinematography of action meets the
ideology of science-fiction that unite as one of masterpiece in the end
of 20th century.Actually, I just watched this movie twice. First time I watched, I
didn't get what 'Wachowskis' duo means. I mean this is a deep movie and
you must pay more attention in its key-scene. And the second times I
watched, yes it is a splendid movie I've ever watched. The new
breakthrough of science- fiction and the door to visual effects of the
new century.Great movie!

******
29 September 2013
8
Matrix for me was amazing. I couldn't get enough watch it. All those
flying effects just made me say "WOW" so many times. It is just simply
amazing. It would be such an amazing thing if this may be implemented
in real life too. I loved the slow time effect, it just made the film
perfect and became very popular effect, these days people are using it
a lot. To be honest this film is speechless. Beside the motion
graphics. I liked the movements and martial fighting. Gave a very
strong and powerful action combined with graphic effects. You
definitely can realize the martial fighting movements are so perfect
followed with that slow time effect. Honest since this film I used that
effect a lot.

******
24 September 2013
8
The Matrix, a 1999 futuristic movie about a future community where
human gets to enter a virtual world called the matrix. When enter the
virtual world, the participant's senses interpret the experience of
taste, touch, smell, hear, and see as real. In the virtual world, pain
feels real, and fatal injuries in the virtual world can lead to death
in the real world. The world of the matrix is attractive to
participants because of the supernatural ability and unlimited
potential they experience in the Matrix. In the Matrix, you can jump
distances that defy the concepts of time and gravity; one can even
dodge a point blank incoming bullet. Doesn't that sound like the 2010
movie Inception? The Matrix is one of those movies that introduced a
new idea to the big screen. Written and directed by Lana Wachowski and Andy Wachowski, The Matrix
wind around the theme of extraordinary human reflection. The movie
stared Keanu Reeves (Neo), Carrie-Anne Moss (Trinity), Laurence
Fishburne (Morpheus), and Hugo Weaving (Agent Smith). The success of
the movie had called for two more movies, and in 2013, Agent Smith made
a small comeback with a Matrix style commercial called "Agent of Good".Just when everyone was waiting for the coming of Y2K, the movie The
Matrix brought a very brilliant idea around the thought that advance
technology may be appealing, but there also is the what if possibility
that the machine we have created will one day take over our world.
While the idea of the human race being menaced is not original to The
Matrix, the graphics, and editing work make placed it in category above
the rest. From the opening scene, begin with a fast changing computer code that
formed The Matrix and the secret conversation between two agents'
conversing on a secured telephone line that will soon be breached by
Agent Smith and his other virtual team of police officers. In this
early scene, the director introduced the technique of freezing the
action and zoomed in camera movement to illustrate speed and
unbelievable human reflexes. This technique is called time slicing; it
is used throughout the entire movie.The movie gave a more modernized version of those Chinese Kun Fu
masters who can jump and make precise fighting moves that we imitated
and admired as kids. We will always love movies like that; they inspire
us, they make us believe in the possibility that we too could be
someone of incredible abilities. We can only imagine how long it took
the crew team to make such a great blend of graphic and sounds that
makes The Matrix the king of time slicing techniques.

******
18 September 2013
10
This is one of the greatest movie's of all time.. At least the 1st one.
The rest of the trilogy was still good because it was an entire story.
I feel like the 1st Matrix was just so eye opening. The way the writer
described the world makes it believe that we are truly living in a
Matrix. Since this movie came out I feel like the world has slowly
opened their eyes to this idea of an alternate reality. There is no one
else that could have played Neo but Mr. Reeve's.. He was talked bad
upon because of the way he acts but that's him. If Will Smith would
have locked down the role of Neo I don't think I would have liked the
movie the same. Morpheus was such a big role for anyone to play. He is
the reason why the Matrix exists. Without him finding it and trying to
find the one, everyone in the world stays asleep.. I also feel like we
are in a Matrix and wish Morpheus would call me to give me a pill.
Favorite line from the movie... " Yeah everyday, it's called
mescaline." I don't know how you can follow up the second and third
movie after the first Matrix. It was just so good. The second Matrix
"Reloaded", had those awesome ghosts. That chases scene on the high way
saved the movie for me as far as hype. But the Matrix is the Matrix and
you can never take that image of Neo waking up the black screen with
the green writing out of your mind. It's burned in there. Thank you for
the Matrix. I still watch it till this day all the way through and
learn something new.

******
16 September 2013
10
Truly a revolutionary film trilogy. Still a better love story than
Twilight. Love Hugo Weaving's performance in this one (especially after
watching him in Cloud Atlas recently). Brilliant actor. Brilliant film.
Brilliant movie marathon. Mouse is my favorite character although he
doesn't have the longest life span. Along with Cypher, Tank, and Mouse,
it is truly one of my favourite castings in film trilogy history
(unlike The Mummy trilogy and how they changed Evy's character in the
third installment of the series and made Alex like seventy-eight years
old!! The actors and actresses had very good chemistry with each other
and helped to develop the story into an awesome sci-fi adventure!!

******
7 September 2013
9
Matrix... is the movie based on the system in which we are surviving.
It is great movie and simply explains how the system works. If any body
feels something..like he is not what he is and what he is doing is not
on his own will, and hence he must realize that he lives in the
matrix.It's a winner, because it's a reality that creates an impact of
it's own. Direction is superb, and performances are award-worthy.As far
as production is concern,the producer has put all his efforts to make
the movie a masterpiece.For most of the user,its just a film. But for
me it has revealed and explained the very true side of the image. The
image of our system in which we are living and delivering all our
efforts to make the system efficient without knowing that in return the
system is spoiling our future.

******
3 September 2013
10
well surely the movie is great on action scenes (has made fighting
sequences an art form) but so are some other action popular Hollywood
movies. Acting is as usual awesome by all the actors, eg. Neo's body
language is a novelty. Dialogues has become part of daily parlance,
like "My way or highway" etc. which are work of literature. One can
surely get an Ph.d degree working on it. These are exteriors which are
beautifully sculpted. But the main thing which makes the movie
outstanding is it's message which it tries to convey. The idea that we
are in a matrix(mayajaal) from Indian philosophy. & this is where it
triumphs . Neo is a seeker of truth. Morpheus being his rightful
guide(spiritual Guru). Agents being different form negativities which
will try to block your spiritual ascent. The computer generated world
is what we see in our daily life but would never understand till we'r
self-realized, as Neo in last lines says to get connected i.e. to the
all pervading superpower & only then we will know our real powers
surely we will may not start flying like superman, but may be it's a
possibility. But surely one's perception will change a lot,
(symbolically: Neo sees the code going through matrix). So, i would
wish the ardent fans who have really understood the essence of the
movie will do something practical(Yoga: please, check the right
meaning). This will be right tribute to "Matrix" makers.

******
27 August 2013
10
When the Wachowskis released "The Matrix" in 1999, it marked the dawn
of a new age for the science fiction and action genres with the
numerous technical and aesthetic innovations it contributed to the film
industry. These would go on to earn it the widespread recognition of
being one of the most important films of its generation, as well as
quite arguably one of the greatest sci-fi films of its generation. At
the time, few could have anticipated that such an edgy, high concept,
and quasi-religious film would achieve the blockbuster success in which
it did. Most assuredly technological advances in graphics, such as the
"bullet time" technique developed specifically for the film, and an
innovated aesthetic to the complexity of choreographed fight sequences,
are factors contributing to its earned acclaim. However, one of the
most critical elements, which has and will continue to contribute to
the film's success, was the innovative postmodern hybrid score that Don
Davis wrote for the film. Davis made unique orchestration decisions
that were foreign to the popular trends in scoring at the time, and he
constructed textural motives instead of themes to portray concepts
pertaining to the film as opposed to the more traditional approach of
creating thematically driven material designed to quite often score the
characters. In doing so, he offered a unique sonic perspective and
aesthetic quite fitting for such a mind-blowing and thought-provoking
film which persuaded the critics, cult enthusiasts, and fans alike to
take the red pill and happily tumble down the rabbit hole.

******
24 August 2013
9
The Matrix is an excellent movie.It's a very innovative movie and interesting for the viewer to discover
the truth with Neo. The Matrix reveals that our life is nothing else
than an illusion and a lie. We have destroyed ourselves. Maschines have
taken over and use us as power sources.It's an exciting film with an interesting and scaring idea. The film's
fighting scenes in slow motion have left a mark on cinema and
especially Lawrance Fishbourne's performance is memorable.
Unfortunately, the sequels to this film have been disappointing. 9 stars.

******
19 August 2013
10
I want you to take a walk with me. A walk that leads to a path that
might be familiar to you. The first path has a wealth of memories as
The Matrix breaking new ground in technology and visual treasures. Is
that your experience? No? Then you are on the second path. This path
has led from another generation and you were just born in 1999 and
legitimately have no knowledge of this movie and/or are from a country
that did not have this movie.Is that you? We won't hold it against you.
In fact, that's mainly who these user reviews are helpful to the most.
Do you have a cellphone? No, I am not a telemarketer nor is this a
sales pitch. Technology changed greatly with this movie. The space-age
telephone in this movie was a prototype and actually did not work. Now,
we have moved beyond the modified flip-phone into versions that would
even impress Morpheus. Be prepared to take a journey, suspend belief,
and go down the rabbit hole...

******
18 August 2013
9
"The Matrix is a digital world that controls the mankind", after
listened to this definition in the movie, i momently repeated this
definition about three times, and i thought it was true. In fact, it is
true, because without digital technology,there is nothing,the movie,the
IMDb,everything is nothing without digital world.The movie,prominently a visual effects lead the movie towards the
success,and keanu Reeves,lead role,i heard about his life,was so
horrible but he is awesome.bullet time motion graphics was
astonishing.As a computer science student, i realized that the
programming languages ruling the technology.Amazing screenplay made the
movie understandable and far away from elusive.

******
16 August 2013
9
"The Matrix" is a movie which has began a new era in the cinema. It was
a movie that started a new trilogy of Sci-Fi. "The Matrix" is a movie
in which you will be stunned, it's a really nice movie with a
well-known cast of actors.The movie show us a hacker who learns from mysterious rebels the truth
about the real life and the fake one. It also show us the two sides of
war. From one hand is the rebels and on the other hand is the
controllers of them.The well-known cast plays an important role on how we see this movie
because of theirs interpretations. Keanu Reeves as Neo made an
outstanding performance, such as Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus and
Carrie-Anne Moss as Trinity. Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith (the bad guy)
made an also good performance."The Matrix" for more people is the upgraded version of a movie in
which Keanu Reeves played a few years before, this movie is "Johnny
Mnemonic" (1995) and the leading actor is who else than Keanu Reeves.

******
15 August 2013
10
One of the coolest movies of all time, "The Matrix" has everything I
could ask for in a movie. It has great action in it and thoughtful
subtext that will keep you thinking after the movie ends.The year is 1999... Or is it? It's actually closer to 2199 and humans
are being controlled by machines, they have them stuck inside a program
that simulates real life called "The Matrix" while they feed on them
for energy. It's up to a group of people fighting the system and a new
recruit, Neo (Keanu Reeves), to free the people from enslavement.Director Darren Aronofsky thought that "The Matrix" redefined Sci-Fi
movies, and I agree, what it did has yet to be matched by modern
science fiction films that tend to lean towards visuals and give no
importance towards action and fight choreography like what we can see
here. The use of slow motion is perfect, it's used to highlight the
action and give the viewer the feeling that he's right in the middle of
it, unlike modern action movies with all the shaky cams.The underlying themes it deals with are what makes it far superior than
any other action or science fiction movies and leaves the audience with
something to talk about. It deals with some of the same things Stanley
Kubrick dealt with in "2001: A Space Odyssey" in the 60's, they're
themes that are even more interesting now that we live in a society
that depends on technology and for that it's a movie that's way far
ahead of its time.I'm not even going to mention the sequels, I see "The Matrix" as a
stand-alone feature so I'm just going to ignore they even exist. As
Quentin Tarantino said, the sequels ruined the mythology to it, I
couldn't agree more, but I think that when you forget the sequels even
happened it's a masterpiece.It's hard to see how Hugo Weaving didn't get more recognition for his
performance as Agent Smith, he plays one of the most terrifying
villains of all time, his screen presence is always felt and the way he
delivers his lines (specially when he says "Mr. Anderson") is something
that would fit perfectly in a horror film.If you haven't seen it yet, I'd recommend it to anyone it to anyone,
specially whoever liked "Wall-E", "Terminator 2: Judgement Day",
"Inception", "Equilibrium", "Dark City", "The Wolverine", "Twelve
Monkeys", "Minority Report", "Sin City", and "Looper".

******
30 July 2013
10
As of writing this review, I have seen this like a 1000 times between
the ages of 12 to 26. I have seen another 1000 movies in the same time
frame but The Matrix has a charm and attraction attached to it like
none other. Its sleek, stylish and so much substance. This is one movie
that makes a compelling case against people who argue that only books
have depths, because this movie describes its story, characters and
events in a manner that mere words cannot capture.This is my first review on IMDb.com and I am a sort of computer geek
and I am being biased and this is my ultimate movie. But when I say I,
I am confident that I describe the sentiments of a generation that has
grown up under the influence of this movie.That should say it all, but among the many fine qualities of this
masterpiece, two stand out for me. One, The Matrix is no doubt the
finest computer based science fiction there is, the concept is clearly
one of the most imaginative and vivid and detailed piece of genius, and
it presents a parallel reality, the possibility of which cannot be
completely denied, and its theories on machine and AI development still
make sense after 14 years of its release. Secondly, this movie is slick
and fast paced, layered with actions sequences that set a precedent
both in terms of the creativity and technology with which they were
shot, but their emotional, spiritual and existence in the story itself.If you are reading this review after watching the movie (as I often do)
then all I have to say is watch it again, there is more there then what
you have already seen.Enjoy!!

******
27 July 2013
9
I cannot get enough of this movie. I have seen this movie more than any
other movie, and I cannot get sick of it. It has everything I need to
keep coming back. This movie is on a whole other level when it comes to
sci-fi. It is so well done, so smart, so stylish and everything any
sci-fi or computer nerd wishes would happen to them. It's
anti-establishment and really feeds into how the government and
corporations are trying to bring humanity down in a way that is so
poetic and amazing. I love love love love love this movie! The acting
is perfect, the storyline is flawless, the graphics are insane, the
plot is believable, and you just want to live in their world with them.
Cannot say anything bad about this movie.

******
21 July 2013
8
I finally saw this one, and I'm glad I did. Some people didn't like the
acting, but I thought it was fine. The storyline seems to get in the
way of the action at first, but if you take the time to watch this 3 or
4 times, the storyline ADDS a lot to the film and shows you that the
awesome gun-flashing scenes had a reason to them.Agent Smith was cool, the kung-fu action scenes were cool, the guns
were cool, and the special effects were great. I don't want to
disappoint anybody by giving them high expectations before they saw the
movie, but this is a great movie. How can you resist the idea of being
able to download ANYTHING you want to learn in an instant? 10 years of
kung-fu experience downloaded into your brain in 7 seconds! The idea is
as seductive as time travel, which made Back To The Future so popular.
See this!!!!

******
4 July 2013
8
the matrix brings action to the big screen that was never seen before
with intense fights scenes,a well thought out story line with a hint of
love that keeps you wanting more.the story follows Mr. Anderson who
works a regular 9-5 job by day but by night Neo (hacker name) makes
extra cash by being a computer hacker and selling computer programs.His
life takes a dramatic turn when finds out the life he's been living is
a lie and actually he's a slave to a world overran by machines,Its kind
of ironic that he hacks computer programs but is a slave to a computer
program made by machines. its a well thought plot that deserves a 8 out
ten stars its worth watching then putting the sequel in for an encore.

******
2 July 2013
7
I started watching the movie, and no, I didn't like it. It's a little
confusing and somehow disgusting. I watched like, 30 min and turn it
off. Maybe it's not my kind of movie, but I still don't understand why
it's rating is 8.7 . I liked the actors, they were fine, but I still
don;t really like the plot. For a 16 year old it's really confusing and
frustrating, maybe 5 years later I'll find it interesting, but for now,
I really don't recommend it. I actually asked my friends, and they
think the same. For a 1999 movie, the effects are pretty good and
realistic, I was impressed. One thing I'd like to discover is the name,
why "Matrix" and not something else, what does it mean. Probably that's
the only thing that got me interested.

******
29 June 2013
10
Many people had related it to different concepts. Some to spiritual,
fictional world and some to the actual world. I am one of those who
believe we may be in Matrix. The concept is more about the will, belief
and determination on oneself. Now, about the movie, its the most entertaining, action filled with
superb stunts and well fitting characters. Unlike many other movies of
the same genre, the concept is not very hyperbole but realistic in the
presented situations. If you do not like the movie in first go, it
could mean you do not like sci-fi, action, thriller or like me...did
not understand the concept. Well...watch it again. After you get a
complete grip, like me after my 3rd run...i watched it like more than
10 times and every time i watch a better print and i love watching it.10/10 movie!!!

******
25 June 2013
9
What if virtual reality wasn't just for fun, but was being used to
imprison you? That's the dilemma that faces mild-mannered computer
jockey Thomas Anderson (Keanu Reeves) in The Matrix. It's the year
1999, and Anderson (hacker alias: Neo) works in a cubicle, manning a
computer and doing a little hacking on the side. It's through this
latter activity that Thomas makes the acquaintance of Morpheus
(Laurence Fishburne), who has some interesting news for Mr. Anderson --
none of what's going onIn THE MATRIX, Keanu Reeves stars as Neo, a computer programmer with a
sideline as a hacker, who gets mysterious messages that lead him to
Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), leader of a ragtag group that lives
aboard a rocket-style craft. It turns out that it's not 1999 but about
100 years into the future. All of humanity has been turned into a
source of energy to keep machines "alive." The Matrix is a massive
computer program that has the humans believing that they are still
living in a world that has actually been destroyed. Special agents, led
by Smith (Hugo Weaving), seek out Morpheus and his followers to destroy
them.

******
22 June 2013
9
The Matrix has an intense, well-thought-out plot that leaves you
wanting more. The acting is believable and sincere, and Keanu Reeves
suits his role as the main character perfectly. The visual effects are
brilliant and all the stunts are executed without any fault. Watching
this movie, I could not believe that it was released in 1999 - the
effects and camera-work are so good that they would fit in with the
movies being released now, 14 years later. I recommend this movie to
anyone who loves action or interesting story lines with an exciting
twist. This movie deserves its place in the top 250. I give it a nine
out of ten. Go watch it right now if you haven't yet (and if you have -
go watch it again!).

******
20 June 2013
9
The Matrix is one of the best films of all time, as well as the best
sci-fi movie ever made and also one of my favorites of all time! The
Matrix is one of those movies like Usual Suspects which holds you from
the opening credits and does not let up til the lights come on in the
theater. By now we all know the story behind the Matrix and how great
the special effects and action was, but I noticed that most people
forgot to mention the depth of the story.Yes! Matrix is an action movie, but it is also Biblical in many ways.
Neo is Jesus... he is the "one" selected to free the people from
persecution. Cypher is the disciple who betrayed Christ... he sold out
Morpheous for materialistic items and was then was forever banished
from the real world. Morpheous is God... the all knowing, he is
everywhere, yet nowhere. And Trinity is the Virgin Mary, for it was her
efforts which brought Neo to the "real world". Other references include
Zion,the Nebucanezhar and the Oracle.I have seen this film three times, will see it again at the theaters
and I am definitely going to purchase the DVD on Oct. 5. Forget Phantom
Menace, the Matrix is IT!

******
17 June 2013
10
The matrix should be the "BEST movie of all time" If you don't agree,
is because you don't understand the movie :) The Matrix has all topics:
Cyberpunk, the Mind, The reality, The Control, All about Software,
virus, hackers. I ask you: Why Seraph has YELLOW code in matrix ? Do
you understand why? Think it.It's one between hundreds of reflections
and questions around matrix. If you see The Matrix several times, you
can see incredibles references to others movies and authors. Like
Cyberpunk movie is incredible the mention to others ideas that we 've
seen in Ghost in The Shell, Level 13, Existez, etc. You can complement
that movie with the game "Enter the Matrix" and the Animatrixs movies.

******
9 June 2013
10
Well I am a huge fan of this great movie and every time I watch it I
enjoy it!This movie is sci if so if you are not a fan of this type of
movie then u will not be a fan but for me it has every eliminate I go
in looking for.It has effects,great plot and its also entertaining.I
know this review is short but I just want to say its great!If you like
sci if u will love this movie and If u don't you might still appreciate
it for the originality and thrilling and unpredictable plot!This movie
isn't just for nerds if you r thinking that because heaps of people I
know who are not nerds love this movie including me.This movie is rated
r but unrighteously so and I definitely think heaps of pg 13 movies are
way more explicit and this movie isn't gory or disturbing or constantly
violent either.Id definitely let a 12 year old watch this movie because
I don't believe the rating and its not always right!!

******
31 May 2013
10
When someone hears the word "Matrix", it already thinks on a man
dodging bullets in slow time, little he knows that "The Matrix" is so
much deeper than that."The Matrix" is the classic action - sci-fi that forever changed the
cinematic action scenes, but the film is not only fantastic action
scenes, as I said, is much deeper than that.The story begins with Neo (Keanu Reeves), who lives two lives
simultaneously; in one he is Thomas Anderson, an important secretary in
one of the most important computer companies in the world; in the other
he is Neo, a night-hacker that sells all kinds of programs and computer
viruses and tries to discover the meaning of the "Matrix". One day he
meets Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) who claims to have all the answers he
needs and show Neo the way to get to know the Matrix. After a problem
with the police, Neo decides to accept the help of Trinity who
introduces him to Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) a wanted terrorist that
shows to be an very polite and smart man and he know something that Neo
doesn't. Morpheus offers Neo a chance to know what the Matrix is. Neo
accepts the offer and discovers that not only what is the Matrix but
also discovers that our whole world is nothing but a lie.The Wachowski brothers (directors-writers) can raise the film several
philosophical theories about what is real and how the human mind works,
and how we can create and control what is not real. But along with the
philosophy, the Wachowskis have created action scenes that changed
cinema forever. But all the frenetic action ranging that goes from Kung
Fu moves in slow motion and the incredible bullet-time, and of course
the classic scene of dodging bullets in slow motion, all of them are
part of the whole philosophy that builds the Matrix.Writing and fantastic direction had to be accompanied by a formidable
cast that is not what is missing in this movie. Keanu Reeves is superb
and becomes the "chosen one"; the fantastic Laurence Fishburne as the
unforgettable Morpheus; and one of the greatest villains that cinema
ever had it's Hugo Weaving as the cruel Agent Smith.A classic action and sci-fi that will be forever remembered, thanks to
a fantastic writing and breathtaking action scenes make's "The Matrix"
a true masterpiece.

******
14 May 2013
10
This is a great film. The plot is interesting, the characters are
well-developed, and the overall experience is mind-blowing. It's so
cool, you watch the movie and you're like: "Oh my god. He was living in
a computer program his whole life, living in a cell with red liquid."
The whole backstory is also neat, how there was a human-machine war and
the machines won. I personally think everything in the Matrix is cool.
The Agents especially. It's so freaky: They can't really die (unless of
course you're Neo). Bullet Time is one of the best moments of the
entire trilogy. A 360 view of Neo leaning back quicker than the eye can
see dodging bullets. I mean, you can't really find that in another
film. Out of the three movies in the Matrix trilogy, this one was by
far the best and the most interesting. Great job Wachowskis! I would
recommend this movie to any sci-fi fan.

******
23 April 2013
10
It's just epic, thought provoking, Sci-Fi Gold. Featuring a solid cast
and an incredibly original take on science fiction, The Matrix is truly
spectacular. Spine chilling fight scenes permeate the core of the
experience while incredible visuals accommodate the Bro's vision for a
virtual world where we are all slaves. The whole of the film is
absolutely amazing. The vision is ambitious but it seriously comes full
circle and becomes something truly spectacular as the film progresses.
It takes the cake for being one of my top 10 favorite films of all
time. I have yet to see a Sci-Fi film as excellent and flawless as The
Matrix.

******
12 February 2013
8
The Matrix is a film starring Keanu Reeves as Thomas Anderson, who is a
computer programmer that comes to a harsh reality while under his alias
Neo, he tries to uncover the meaning behind some messages on his
computer. Machines have taken humans hostage to use their bioelectrical
energy as a power source, in essence they are a human battery. Laurence
Fishburne plays Morpheus who helps Neo see the truth behind the matrix.
The theme of this film is that not everything is as it seems. This is
presented as what we conceive as reality is actually a masterly
engineered program to keep our minds alive an active solely for the
purpose of harvesting our bodies electrical discharges. Another film
that is of a different nature but has a similar theme is The Recruit
starring Al Pacino and Colin Farrell. In this film set inside the CIA,
where Farrell is trying to make sense of who's working who. While the
theme and plot of this film are quite exceptional, the most remarkable
thing about this movie is the editing. The producers chose to use slow
motion in the fight scenes to make the audience feel as if Neo was
really faster than a bullet. This type of editing was not new to films
but the Matrix definitely perfected it. The editors skillfully created
a variety of transitions throughout the film. In some scenes they used
inside/out editing to skip from one place to another unfamiliar place.
This can be seen in the scene right after Neo takes the pill, the
viewer goes from thinking the entire thing is bs, the scene changes
quickly to the inside of an incubator-like apparatus that keeps Neo
alive to harvest his bio-electric energy as it dumps him out of the
waste shoot where he is retrieved by Morpheus, we see rows upon rows
and stacks upon stacks of the same type of apparatus that Neo was just
in. Another type of transition the editors use is flip frame. The scene
abruptly changes from one place to another.

******
11 February 2013
10
The Matrix, the first installment of the trilogy, is a master piece,
not so much in terms of movie mechanics, but in terms of story telling.
The ideas it brings, not the concept of the domination of the machines,
but how that domination is achieved, are stupendous. They are mind
breaking.The first time I saw that film, I didn't know what I was going to see,
and it felt like a punch in the guts. I consider myself lucky, because
that is a rare thing. Still, it is a piece to catch anyone's breath.The soundtrack is one of the best ever, bar only The Crow (review
upcoming). The costume are perfectly tailored and adapted to the tone
of each environments. The mood is excellent, at all time. They even
applied a greenish tinge when they are in the matrix, a blueish one in
the cold real world, and you'll see only normal colors when they are in
the training programs.The action and suspense will keep you wanting more, the story will
light up your mind, and the fight scenes will push you to the edge of
your seat.Some special effects, mainly the CGI, are not aging very well, but the
work is still acceptable today.This is probably one of Keanu Reeves' best performance. He's not a
great actor, but the role fits him well. His performance as well as
Carrie-Anne Moss' are not as good in the following installments. Those
two movies are barely good enough to tell the rest of the story, and
are not even close to the quality of the first one. I will not be
reviewing them.

******
8 February 2013
9
The Matrix is a science fiction action film that blends religion,
philosophy with amazing martial arts that support the theme of the film
which is who is in control of your life. The film has amazing camera
work weaving bullet time action with high wire tricks that gives the
audience a sense of awe. The Matrix actors give powerful performances
supporting each others roles as well as the theme. The Matrix is an
examination of control that people have on their own lives. The Matrix
has similarities to the movie Logan's Run which describe control from
outside sources watching the population. The control factor is similar
but from different points of view. I enjoyed this movie because of the
special effects and action. The film's story is well defined and makes
the audience think about who is controlling their lives. Finally after
viewing this film you should ask the question: Am I living in the
matrix or the real world?

******
29 January 2013
9
Well I am a huge fan of this great movie and every time I watch it I
enjoy it!This movie is sci fi so if you are not a fan of this type of
movie then u will not be a fan but for me it has every elimate I go in
looking for.It has effects,great plot and its also entertaining.I know
this review is short but I just want to say its great!If you like sci
fi u will love this movie and If u don't you might still appreciate it
for the originality and thrilling and unpredictable plot!This movie
isn't just for nerds if you r thinking that because heaps of people I
know who are not nerds love this movie including me.This movie is rated
r but unrightfully so and I deffinaly think heaps of pg 13 movies are
way more explicit and this movie isn't gory or disturbing or constantly
violent either.Id deffinaly let a 12 year old watch this movie because
I don't believe the rating and its not always right!!

******
14 September 2012
9
Are you ready for Morpheus to give ...no... to bestow some truth upon
you? Turns out that we're all just slime covered bio-batteries and the
ones fortunate enough to be flushed out of their bondage are greeted by
their liberators with a ratty old sweater. Once Keanneo is unplugged,
he joins the resistance in the war against skynet ...ahem, I mean, the
machines! It would appear that the resistance is only a handful of
people with names that sound like obscure Transformer characters like
Cypher, Switch, Apoc, and Dozer. Unfortunately, Flick, Thumper and Molt
had already been taken by A Bug's Life the year before this film came
out. And of course, the coolest of all these cool orphans is the leader
and existential drug dealer is Morpheus. Contrary to what his name
suggests, Morpheus cannot actually morph into a character that doesn't
induce your eyes to roll. If any film can make you contemplate the very nature of your existence,
it is a slam-bang cinematic video game that is much ado about kung fu.
But The Matrix is more than just a sci-fi movie. It is the greatest
testament to the inherently hollow nature of our existence and every
single ineffective punch delivered to the face of an androidish agent
emphasizes that. You see, The Matrix has one thing to say about life
and one thing only. Technology owns you! I know! Let that one sink in a
bit before reading further about how groundbreaking this movie is.Ready? Okay. Every one-liner is delivered with straight-faced
sophistication and bloated philosophical pretense! But that's cool! In
fact, therein lies the quality of this film. The Matrix is a megabyting
maelstrom of singular moments all collectively screaming at you, THIS
IS COOL!!! And if you don't think it's cool, then you just don't get
it! Morpheus enunciates every sylable of wisdom he delivers and slow mo
is oh so Neo! Plug in and let the Wowchowski brothers treat your eyes
to an ambitious amunitious azzkicker of a film.

******
23 August 2012
9
I went to watch this film by mistake and one of the first screenings. I
didn't really like Keanu Reeves and hadn't heard that much about the
film. I was at the Cinema and we were last for the film we intended to
see. The girlfriend at the time suggested The Matrix as she heard it
was good.I sat down in my chair not really expecting much thinking to myself how
much I really didn't like Keanu Reeves.BOOM! 2 hours later - I got in touch with everyone I knew and told them
I had seen the best film since Star Wars and they had to go and watch
it now! What can you say, the effects are stunning, the story brilliant
and the acting fantastic! so much so I actually really like Keanu now!
If I had to be negative I would say a little cheesy in places but
ignore that! 9.5/10

******
16 August 2012
8
Welcome to the real world of awesome reviews. Me personally, I would
have taken the red pill. Obviously I am talking about the mind bending
experience known as The Matrix. What is the Matrix? To be honest, after
seeing the entire probably ten times I still probably can't even tell
you. The Matrix is about a man named Thomas A. Anderson who lives a
double life. He works for a company which he hates, but he is also a
computer hacker by the alias of Neo. He is searching for the answer to
the Matrix question. He is also looking for the legendary Morpheus, but
Morpheus is also looking for him. Neo is destined to be "the one." Mr.
Anderson gets sucked into "the real world" and he experiences a whole
new world.The first Matrix throws a lot of plot at the audience, especially in
the beginning. We learn about The Matrix and the history of the real
world. The human race is on the brink of destruction and they are at
war with the machines. Neo is destined to be "the one" the one to save
humanity and end the war, but first he has to be sucked out of the
Matrix and into the real world. Neo has lived in the Matrix his entire
life and he got taken out. The plot is a little slow and confusing but
if you stick with it, the story is very interesting and rewarding.The dialog in this movie was very clever. When Neo entered the real
world he asked why his eyes hurt. Morpheus answered, "You never used
them before." Neo is a full grown man and the idea of him using his
eyes for the first time just makes you think. Morpheus says, "Welcome
to the real world." That line was probably the most memorable line of
the entire movie. My favorite line has to be when an agent is dodging
Neo's bullets and when he fires back Neo dodges all but one of his
bullets. The agent walks up to Neo and before he can pull the trigger
Trinity comes out of nowhere, puts a pistol to his head and says,
"Dodge this." Then she blows him away in slow motion fashion. That was
awesome not cheesy at all.The villain in a movie has to stand out and be memorable. Hugo Weaving
plays Agent Smith, and he is probably one of the greatest villains in a
movie I have ever seen. The way he talks, the way he moves, the way he
acts, everything about him is just bad. This guy does not play around,
he is strictly business. One of the first scenes we meet him he is
talking with Mr. Anderson and he makes Mr. Anderson's mouth disappear.
He lets the audience know that this is his world, his playground, and
everyone plays by his rules. He is intimidating because he is a leader,
he rarely shows emotion, all he wears is a suit and shades, and he is
plain scary. Every time he says, "Mr. Anderson" it sends a chill down
my spine. The special effects are in a league of their own, there phenomenal. The
beginning of the movie may have been a little slow but once Neo gets
into the real world there are plenty of fight scenes, gun fights,
explosions, death, and fear. Somebody turns of the special effects
switch and the movie goes off. The most famous of course is when Neo
dodges bullets and basically does the limbo. That has been impersonated
by everybody at least once. The last scene where Neo and Trinity go
into the building with a bunch of guns and blow away the soldiers, that
was awesome. There were bullets flying and punches were being thrown.
The martial arts and slow motion effects were amazing. Actors must have
worked really hard to master the technique, and it really did pay off.
Sure some of the things that happened in the movie would never happen
in real life, but think of the world they are in. Think of the story
and how it doesn't matter if it would happen in real life or not. The
Matrix technically isn't "real." Problems with the movie, there are a few. This movie is not for
somebody with a short attention span. You need to pay attention during
the first hour of the movie. It is all plot and explaining the world
that is The Matrix. It drags a little bit but it is important. The
audience could still have some questions at the end. What exactly is
Zion? Is Neo the one? The oracle says he isn't but he does things no
other person can do. Do the oracles prophesies even mean anything? She
said one will live and one will die, meaning Neo or Morpheus. This
story leaves some holes but that's why two more movies were made. A
main problem I had was the rating of the movie. This was rated R
violence and language. Sure it was violent and bad language was used
but there was no blood and language wasn't as bad. This movie could
have passed for a stretched PG-13 and it would have attracted more of a
crowd.Overall, this movie was great and different. The technology used in
this movie was awesome and used right. The slow motion wasn't overused
or underused, the action scenes weren't crazy because they were worth
waiting for and scenes I could watch again. This movie gets the WillyT
seal of approval and can be watched more than once. It is also a movie
that can be seen with friends or alone. If you have not seen this
movie, check it out. It's a movie everybody should see.

******
12 August 2012
10
what a brilliant action science Fiction movie from Warner brothers with
excellent story action and fight scenes this is probably one of the
best movies ever created cause of the story and action.the story is
about a computer hacker who believes hes in the real world instead hes
in the matrix a computer program to keep everyone came and not know
whats actually going on and is drawing to choose a side between good or
evil and he wakes up in to the real world and he gets training from
Morpheus the head of the army to kill the bad guy and free the world
all the way through awesome action scenes very cool actually and
awesome awesome fight scenes

******
6 August 2012
10
The best reviews of this movie I've ever seen are the ones in Jim
Davidson's "Being Sovereign," and in the online video by Stefan
Molyneux "Free Range Humans." The movie is clearly an allegory to the
modern nation state. We are all used against our will, with most people
never even comprehending this. The Federal Reserve steals all of our
labor and redirects it to what Thoreau called "the machine of
government." Only libertarians are even aware they are enslaved, and
only those who have "woken up" are free. The comparisons are obvious,
and the movie is a tribute to individualism.Just like in real life, conformists' eyes are all informant's eyes. If
a conformist sees a drug deal, a firearm, or anything outside of the
ordinary happening, he gets on his cell phone and reports the
prohibited activity to the police (the police state). The same is true
of the uncomprehending conformists in "The Matrix," whose faces bubble
outward and morph into the "agents" who defend the matrix.My vote/ranking is for the entire trilogy. They are all excellent.
Don't miss Geoff Darrow's amazing design work. The Wachowskis are
geniuses.

******
19 July 2012
10
The green WB logo at the opening credits still send shivers down my
spine! The green code that flashes up just before Trinity attacks the
guards is one of the best opening scenes I've ever seen!I heard that Will Smith was considered for the role of Neo, but he
would have taken the part to light heartedly and incorporated his own
style on Neo (no disrespect to Will, just that Neo is a very serious
character with a dark background, no humour about him).There's no point me going on about the story line and discussing the
special effects as I'm sure most film lovers have seen this. If not, I
suggest you get yourself down to the local video store and request a
copy immediately!

******
30 June 2012
10
There's very little that one can say about the Matrix, you have to have
been living under a rock for the last five years not to have heard of
it, at very least.At some time in the first half of the twenty-first century, human
beings create artificial intelligence that ends up going to war with
it's creators - and wins - almost. During the war the human's somehow
"scorched the sky" therefore stopping the machines getting their source
of solar energy, so instead the machines stop killing humans and
instead capture them and imprison them in "pods" that keep them alive
to act as an energy source (like a battery) for the machines. The
premise of the film is that the world we see around us is an illusion,
created by the artificial intelligence and fed into the "podded"
humans' psyches to keep them quiescent. What you must not ask at this
point is why the machines bother, why they don't just render all humans
unconscious and have done with it - try not even to think it, it will
spoil all of the spectacular set piece battles and kung fu
choreography.The special effects are impressive and the story is so much better than
most of the ridiculously thin things that action movies use. It is
difficult to know whether the film makers were taking the whole thing
totally seriously, as sometimes parts seem a little tongue in cheek. I
prefer to think they weren't taking things completely seriously, since
although I have heard it said how deep the underlying philosophical
questions of the film are, and heard people become obsessively intense
about this, it is, at the end of the day, a light-hearted action flick
with an interesting plot-line done extremely well. If that sounds too
dismissive, I will add that it is one of my favourite films of all
time, I just can't take it seriously that this is either a
philosophical or a religious allegory.So, should you see this film? Yes, it's thrilling, visually stunning,
occasionally profound and also just one of the coolest movies ever
made. So watch it now, if only so you can say you have. 10/10.

******
5 June 2012
9
I've been meaning to watch the Matrix series from beginning to end,
instead of various clips of it when someone in my family were watching
it. I do not regret spending seven hours watching the series. The first
Matrix film is sure to be a hit, especially if you enjoy Anime. Some of
the fighting techniques and scenes seem based on the fighting you would
see in Japanese animation. 9/10 is this movie. I took off a point for
the cheesy "I love you but I'm not going to tell you but I'm going to
start a sentence that makes the viewers think I'm about to tell you but
I'm not". Maybe it was common in the past, but it's cheesy for my view.Imagine finding out your whole life was a life. Imagine finding out you
were actually in a computer, and that in reality, civilization was
destroyed years ago? Imagine trying to fight the machines that
destroyed civilization.. a civilization of billions. I just summed up
the entire movie.One irritating plot event that I won't really mark off for was the fact
that Neo was pretty quick to getting ready to save Morphius. Maybe it
was because he had new information downloaded into his brain, which is
another reason this is 9 and not 8 out of 10, but after being
inexperienced and untrained, he's pretty quick to risk his life. But it
makes for an exciting and action-filled ending..

******
3 June 2012
9
The Matrix - The Modern Day Sci Fi Classic.Plot. - Follow our protagonist Neo across a 'human evolution' from a
pretty stereotypical hacker type to then be transformed and enlightened
to the 'real world' as the chosen one. Verdict. - Deeply Immersive, original, complex themes easily explained
with brilliant action shots and versatile acting by all the cast make
this into one of the best films in the sci fi genre.Oh and it ends with a rather brilliant sound piece, it fits perfectly.Plot - 9/10 Script - 8.5/10 Acting - 9/10 Soundtrack/audio 9.5/109/10.

******
26 April 2012
8
The Matrix is a bad-a$$ film. I really love the action in this film,
the scene where they break into the place to rescue Morpheus was a
truly amazing action scene. A lot of people compare this movie to
Inception, in my opinion, Inception is the better film, but The Matrix
still kicks a$$ and remains a highly intriguing and entertaining motion
picture. The acting is pretty good, Keanu Reeves gives a satisfying
performance as Neo, and I also thought that Laurence Fishburn gave a
good performance. If you haven't seen The Matrix - definitely check it
out, it's a smart action and sci-fi thriller, with awesome special
effects, a good script and screenplay, revolutionary action scenes and
awesome camera work and cinematography.

******
16 April 2012
10
This is surely a very special movie. The rest of the work of the
creators might shine a different light on it, but even it were
accidental, I think this is a masterpiece. Somebody whose destiny is
challenge his own destiny. That's the greatest thing. Thank you very
much for this piece of art. Take the violence out, the exiting shooting
and action-scenes, and that what remains is still stunning. No wonder
so many people were fascinated by this film. From my point of view,
this film is full of love, strength, and most of all, full of hope.
I've seen it many times. There is very often something new to discover.
For me, it was a sort of a revelation. Fantastic!

******
4 April 2012
10
Matrix is considered a sci-fi classic for good reason. The action
scenes are simply outstanding. The last 20 minutes feature some of the
most thrilling action sequences ever put on film.Also, the whole concept of the Matrix is fascinating. The trailer
teases audiences with the question "What is the matrix? There's no way
to describe it. You have to see it for yourself." Well, when you see
the movie and find out what The Matrix really is, you're not
disappointed.If there is a weak spot in the movie it's in the middle when they get
caught up in the whole "Chosen One" storyline. This is too good a movie
to rely on such a stupid plot device. The whole sequence of events
surrounding this plot line reminded me of a really bad Japanese
animated movie I once saw where one of the characters kept saying "I
don't understand! I thought I was the chosen one!" (or something like
that). Why can't they just say, "he's got great potential" and leave it
at that.

******
21 February 2012
10
To the viewer that has not already seen The Marix: Just do it NOW! Rent
the DVD, or better yet the Blue-Ray and watch it! The plot is fast and
comes crashing down on the unsuspecting viewer from the very beginning.
The music is excellent and matches the pace of the movie. Plus the
special effects (considering the film was released in 1999) created a
school of their own! Granted, there are a few times where the plot
seems to be lacking pace and the dark green picture overtone might not
be everybody's cup of tea, but i furiously disagree with other
reviewers bashing the Matrix for those minor drawbacks.It is a good movie and I would highly recommend it!!

******
2 February 2012
10
The Matrix...when I first heard about it, I expected just another
sci-fi action thriller. Good and filled with insane stunts, but not
terribly intelligent.Boy, was I wrong. Oh, the stunts are there in spades, all right, and
yes, they are awesome. And the special effects are absolutely amazing
(even if similar ones have been used in other movies as a result- and
not explained as well).But the movie has plot as well. It has characters that I cared about.
From Keanu Reeves' excellent portrayal of Neo, the man trying to come
to grips with his own identity, to Lawrence Fishburne's mysterious
Morpheus, and even the creepy Agents, everyone does a stellar job of
making their characters more than just the usual action "hero that
kicks butt" and "cannon fodder" roles. I cared about each and every one
of the heroes, and hated the villains with a passion. It has a plot,
and it has a meaning...and lo and behold, a plot does help the fight
scenes! Just try it, if you haven't seen the movie before. Watch one of
the fight scenes. Then watch the whole movie. There's a big difference
in the feeling and excitement of the scenes- sure, they're great as
standalones, but the whole thing put together is an experience unlike
just about everything else that's come to the theaters. Think about it
next time you're watching one of the more brainless action
flicks...think how much better it COULD be.All I can say is WATCH THIS MOVIE. If you haven't, you're missing out
on one of the best films of all time. It isn't just special effects,
folks.

******
11 January 2012
10
Written and directed by the Wachowski Brothers, "The Matrix" is a
high-tech, edge-of-your-seat, heart-pounding sci-fi action thriller,
that will make you want to see it the second time to understand what
the heck is going on. The film talks about a future like no other, so
technologically advanced that we don't know if it's real or not.
Everyone is in the middle of a simulated reality to subdue the human
population. A computer hacker, under the name of "Neo", portrayed by
Keanu Reeves, is drawn into this rebellion, and fight off against the
machines. I'm obviously a fan of big sci-fi action thrillers that make
you pay attention throughout. This movie is one of the best examples.
The casting is golden, from Keanu Reeves' performance that left his
signature as an actor, to Lawrence Fishburne as the mysterious leader
of the Matrix, Morpheus. Hugo Weaving and Carrie-Annie Moss round up
the supporting cast, and they perform just fine. But, my favorite thing
about this movie, was all the incredible technological advantages that
were added. This movie is filled with groundbreaking editing,
fast-paced cinematography, astounding sound effects, and the
jaw-dropping visual effects that are still memorable to this day. That
slow-motion gun bullet scene is still quite memorable, you know! From
the sharp well-written script, the incredible acting, the
groundbreaking visual effects, to the smart directing of the
Wachowskis, "The Matrix" is truly a favorite for all cinema lovers.
It's a fun, non-stop, and exciting motion picture that will take away
the 136-minute run time quickly. No wonder movies always go "copy-cat"
on this movie! "The Matrix", in my review, "a non-stop exciting motion
picture, with groundbreaking visuals".

******
22 December 2011
10
This is the ultimate action movie. I mean it. It may be from the late
90s, but it's hands-down classic. The title of my review says it all.
This film is absolutely amazing. Why? Here's a few reasons. 1) The plot
is incredible. And there are several twists that I couldn't ever
forget. 2) Although Reeves and Fishbourne are the main actors,
everybody in the acting crew did great. I didn't see a single
unrealistic action or heard a single line that wouldn't have been said
in real life. 3) The effects. That needs no explanation. Right in this
moment, I'm trying to think of things that weren't very good in the
movie...let me think. Nope. Can't think of much. Maybe it could've been
a little slower at the beginning, and had no explanation. But maybe
that's what made this movie so great! Not only is this a classic in the
action genre, but in the sci-fi genre as well (although I consider it
mostly action). This is an absolute must-see.

******
21 December 2011
10
The Matrix, some may say the most profound science fiction film in
history, we have all seen The Matrix I assume, so we all know how
amazing it is and how it can leave you one edge of your seat, with its
outstanding cast and ground-breaking visual effects. This film is in my
all-time favorite films because of it being so superlative and well
basically, entertaining and extraordinary. So for the repulsive,
cretins that have not seen this fantastic film, I'll give them a
briefing of what it's about.The Matrix starts off with an action-packed scene that leaves us
scratching our heads, on what the movie is supposed to be about, but it
gradually all comes together. The star of this film is Keanu Reeves,
who plays an estranged lost worker in New York, Thomas Anderson, but
goes by the online alias Neo, this is all 'supposably' set in the year
1999. Look I won't give too much away but I will tell you this; Neo
thinks that something has always been 'different' in the world but he
can't explain it, we soon find out the truth about this world and
discover what the true reality is.Laurence Fishburne is great in this acting as the all-wise Morpheus, in
his comeback performance, alongside some brilliant co-stars such as the
Subtle and intimidating Agent Smith played by Hugo Weaving, Carrie
Anne-Moss as the prevailing Trinity, Joe Pantoliano as bad guy Cipher,
who you may remember as 'Guido The Killer Pimp' in Risky Business.Concluding my review I would like to say that if you watch this film
and thoroughly enjoy it, do not, and I repeat do not, watch the sequels
to this film, for it will ruin your experience of the original.
Nevertheless I give The Matrix 10/10 B-Train Stars. Classic.

******
8 December 2011
10
When i saw the trailer for this movie back in 1999 it looked good and i
thought it was worth seeing but nothing prepared me for what i was
about to watch at the cinema when it came out on my birthday that June.
It blew my mind. I had never seen special effects like that before and
the acting was spot on. Keanu Reeves was the perfect cast for the role
as Neo. The directing was amazing and story was out of this world. The
editing is flawless. The writing is brilliant with a lot of one liners
such as "follow the white rabbit" and "if you take the red pill, you'll
stay in wonderland and i'll show you how deep the rabbit hole goes". I
was glued to the screen. This film is an innovation and changed cinema forever. All the
groundbreaking filming techniques that were used in this movie has been
referred to and copied by almost every successful sc-fi, thriller or
action movie that has come out after the matrix. A movie that should be on your bucket list. If you have not seen this
movie yet go see it now. You will not been disappointed. Even if you
are not a sci-fi fan there's something here for everyone. It will
excite you, free your mind and take you for a ride. WATCH IT NOW!!!! ADD THIS TO YOUR DVD COLLECTION.

******
5 April 2009
10
I just watched this today on my 50" plasma, after not seeing it for
years. And I realized this has got to be one of my favorite sci-fi
movies. Each character has a story, and the way everything ties in
cannot be fully understood the first time it's watched. Watching it
today after seeing it about 5 times in the past, it was even more
satisfying than the first time, because I could see all the nuances;
from the first words spoken that don't make sense till later, to all
the foreshadowing by the oracle and Trinity; not to mention SFX; this
movie ROCKS! I'm not a fan of action movies for the sake of action. I
need an interesting plot that is brilliantly realized and characters I
care about. That being said, if you think Gone with the Wind and The
English Patient are the best movies ever, then I have no idea why
you're even reading a review of a movie in this genre. However, if you
like action, conspiracy and sci-fi, then this movie is not to be
missed!

******
27 March 2009
9
This is one of my all time favorites, to bad it is made by satanists,
but let the message mean what you want it to be. For me it lets me know
the world we live in is false, fight against bad and be good, it sounds
simple but not! Even though I know what message they want you to see.This movie is very real in certain ways, we do not live in what we
think we live in, we do actually live in a Matrix, its a big f'n lie,
be strong like Neo and fight what is bad. Bad is what you feel, bad is
simple just as good is simple, let everyone know that you too believe
and Satan will not win! I'm not religious, this is history as is the
bible! If you know it or not the truth is in you, fight these ##### and
be good, it is easier then you think. What i'm telling you is the
truth, do your research yout#be.comand this will all make a lot of
sense to you!

******
6 February 2009
10
Whatever you say about other Sci-fi movies (e.g Star Wars,E.T)The
Matrix shows the real side to Science fiction with the Story being set
in a different world where everything real is the opposite to on the
real world and the one question which was on my mind and many others is
What is the matrix and how can you tell the difference?Anyway the film is Outstanding and the Wachowski Brothers have done
something that not hardly any director could do.With its fighting
scenes in awesome style with plus amazing special effects this has to
be classified has the first Movie to use cool effects and bring out
positive results. Keaunu Reaves as Neo,Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus
and Hugo Weaving as agent Smith were all ten out of ten because of
their costumes they wore,their amazing fight scenes(especially at the
end between Neo and Agent Smith),and of course the way they all acted.What ever you say about The Matrix you must say that if its either the
best film you've seen or at least one of the best films you've seen.

******
3 January 2009
10
I can remember seeing this in the theatre so long ago. I remember going
to the movies, having an expectation that it was about aliens or
perhaps some type of over the top b-movie, and then being totally blown
away by just about everything that was in front of my face, and then
blown even further away after learning about all of the symbolic
meanings hidden throughout the film.And 10 years later, my wife and I decided to pop in a DVD and try out
our new 42in LCD and sure enough the movie still blows my mind.Sure you can still enjoy this movie for the sole purpose of the eye
candy. The story line while not directly original, was at the very
least original to the generation who watched it.1999 was certainly the tail end of the appeal to the so-called
cyber-punk genre. Previous we had the wonders of Blade Runner, Hackers,
and Johnny Neumonic just to name a few. But this movie set a standard.Borrowing ideas from Anime, Post-Apocalyptic dystopia, and Terminator,
and doing what Star Wars did for Generation X in the 80's by giving us
"The Force" and amazing ways to shoot models in epic space battles,
this did for Generation Nintendo in the 90's by inventing new ways to
use camera angles, and "bullet time", as well as giving us the idea to
"unplug from the Matrix".It gave "woah" a totally new meaning, as well as catch phrases like
"there is no spoon", and "see how deep the rabbit hole goes".You can watch this movie two ways: For the utter enjoyment of what you
see is what you get, or in the double meaning catch phrase by seeing
"how deep the rabbit hole goes", you can learn all of the philosophy
that went into it, which there is quite a bit.A movie that brings back memories, it is certainly my favorite movie of
all time. It was kind of a bummer that the sequels were more about
flash and fire as opposed to substance and thought.But the great thing about this movie is that it does end with an ending
that doesn't need to be taken as a cliffhanger. It can be taken as
somewhat open ended, but with a great deal of finality.A great supplement to this film would be the Animatrix series which
gives a great back story and history to how the humans and the machines
started fighting each other in the first place. It also provides some
other short stories which in many cases are better then the 2 sequels.

******
1 January 2009
9
Tom Anderson (Reeves) believes he lives a normal life until he is found
by Morpheus (Fishburne) who shows him he has been living in a dream
world and now they must join forces in a battle against the machine
world.The question of reality, the complexity of life and the dismal
mechanical futuristic view is the Wachowski brothers The Matrix.Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey and Lucas' Star Wars take a look at
outer space in a hard hitting entertaining manner and this 1999
depiction of reality is equally visually stunning with a wonderful
puzzling narrative and high intellectual entertainment.Opening with a rooftop chase and a strange life risking dash to a
telephone box, The Matrix then unfolds into mystery after mystery as
Neo, along with the viewers, tries to decode the strangeness of what is
the Matrix.This film is more than a 2 hour Sci-Fi masterpiece. It is a picturesque
puzzle that leaves the viewer with many questions that are a joy to
discuss.The effects help cement the feel of the futuristic world and the
differences between the Matrix and the machine world. Bright and smart,
the directors have created a visionary film through the use of some of
the finest effects you will see. The green letter encoding sequences
are now legendary and the slowing down sequences is a target for spoofs
despite the brilliance of them.The performances are secondary next to the bizarrely beautiful
narrative. Hugo Weaving's Agent Smith is a stand out, a fantastic
villain that is the only thing that gets better as the trilogy
progresses.The ending puts a damper on the narrative by being too over the top and
diving into last gasp convention, However overall this is a fine
sophisticated Sci-Fi drama that questions reality in a deep and
meaningful manner.Sadly the originality and imagination of this film was ruined by two
over the top gung ho action sequels.For quality entertainment watch this film and stay clear of the sequels
which will leave you with an open mind and plenty of questions to
ponder and discuss.

******
14 December 2008
8
"The Matrix" is among the best sci-fi films ever to come out of
Hollywood. In it, a hacker learns the truth about the nature of reality
and joins the fight for the freedom of the human race.On the surface, the cast might seem slightly underwhelming. I wouldn't
say that any of them are great actors, more like good actors who can
nail certain types of roles. Luckily, they all seem to have been cast
in precisely the type of role for which they are best suited. So, I
have to give the actors credit but also the casting directors.The action is undeniably the main selling point here. It was
breathtaking at the time and while some of the effects work doesn't
look quite as polished as the films that have followed (including the
sequels) it still retains a sense of wonder. This is definitely a film
designed with a unique style in mind.All of which is not to say that the script is merely an excuse to get
from one set-piece to the next. The underlying idea of the Matrix is an
interesting one and the film-makers get most of the exposition out of
the way early on so as not to slow down the later stages.The Wachowski's direction is solid throughout though not quite as slick
as it would become later on. Their style suits the film well and
delivers the goods in a film that's all about 'the look'. The music is
also well-handled with some fitting soundtrack choices and a better
than average score.All of this makes for an essential sci-fi/action hybrid. It may be a
stylish film but that doesn't mean that it falls into the trap of
emphasizing style over substance. Definitely recommended as a film to
put your high-def system to the test.

******
2 December 2008
8
In common usage, hacker is generic term for a computer criminal, often
with a specific specialty in computer intrusion.Computer hacking
subculture is often referred to as the network hacker subculture or
simply the computer underground.It is common among hackers to use
aliases for the purpose of concealing identity, rather than revealing
their real names. Members of the network hacking scene are often being
stereotypically described as crackers by the academic hacker
subculture, yet see themselves as hackers and even try to include
academic hackers in what they see as one wider hacker culture, a view
harshly rejected by the academic hacker subculture itself. Instead of a
hacker  cracker dichotomy, they give more emphasis to a spectrum of
different categories, such as white hat ("ethical hacking"), grey hat,
black hat and script kiddie. In contrast to the academic hackers, they
usually reserve the term cracker to refer to black hat hackers, or more
generally hackers with unlawful intentions. The movie takes up
advantage of the technological enhancements and it is totally good to
watch ! My website supports the movie is worthful watching .....!!!www.iwebforums.org

******
25 November 2008
10
I watched this movie in cinema long time ago and I never forget the
feelings when leaving after watch. This film changed my life. I started
to think a little different. It was access to myself. Wachowski Bros.
made fantastic piece of art. I think all movie fans know this title and
they never forget it. Do you remember when you first time saw it? I
remember very well this stunning visual effects which they looked like
real. I was so excited watching this film. Every second of this movie
is worth seeing. The story told in "The Matrix" is really important to
this world because no one knows the future and it shows how could it be
and how A.I. may be. It's a warning to humanity. I strongly recommend
to see this movie. If you like action on the best level you must watch
it and enjoy superb story with great stunning effects (visual and
sound).

******
1 November 2008
10
Neo is a computer hacker who spends his nights wondering what is real
and soon he meets a Morpheus who shows him that the world is nothing
but a computer programme designed to keep people alive and power the
machine world.....The plot is very complicated but if you're a comic book geek like me
then the plot is very simple....But this film not only provides a great
complex story but the action is unseen, by that I mean that the action
sequences are amazing, stunning and mind boggling. The special effects
take this film to a level of its own and have become almost a cliché in
some action films, the 'bullet time'; the synchronised fight scenes....Keanu Reeves who has been panned by critics for years, finally silences
them by providing the greatest performance in his career as the
confused chosen one; Lawrence Fishburne who is endearing as the man who
has searched his whole life for Neo while Moss is the love interest and
Hugo Weaving as the baddie, a baddie like no other; he redefines scary
with his cold, steel like tone of voice.

******
12 October 2008
10
Basically all the Matrix Movies are the very Best Action / SciFi Movies
I have ever seen. I did not see them at their original debuts at the
Cinemas, yet I have seen the DVD's. Never have seen an Action Movie
come close to the amount of excellent special effects, great scripts,
and super suspense - Will continually vote 10 out of 10 for the Matrix
Series. I watch at least 1 or 2 action films per week either on DVD, on
Limewire, or at CinemaNow or MovieLink online. The Matrix (3 movies) is
definitely the best movie(s) I have ever watched. Seriously don't know
how they are going to be out done... Hope that you understand the
Movie, I know folks that have watched it and don't understand the
"matrix" and when the actors are in the "matrix" - anyway, 10 out of
10. Or 100 out of 100.

******
14 September 2008
10
"A Virtual Science Fiction that went on the world like a hurricane
effect" - this publication on a magazine made me to see The Matrix as
soon as possible.After I seen the movie i was fascinated. It made me too see it again in
a row in about 3 times.It is really a bounder-breaking picture.We can be amazed for the first time by the bullet time and time
freezing techniques, it is really great to see the camera rolling in
360 degrees and to view the same picture.The Matrix is played in the future where the machines are ruling the
world. They are using mankind for an energy source and using "The
Matrix" program too make believe the human mind that the body is really
living.The mankind is almost eliminated ,it is remained only a city
"Zion" .From this city a rebellion ship named the Nebuchadnezzar and
it's team free a mind from The Matrix who later will be the one.He's name is Neo and he will be the one and on he's hand will depend
the freedom of mankind.The Matrix has been awarded with 4 Oscars in 2000 :Best Sound ;Best
Editing ;Best Effects,Sound Effects Editing ;Best Effects,Visual
Effects .In other matters it is a great philosophical movie with other big
questions like where does mankind hading ,or the origin of humanity.This title is also a warning that if we are not careful machines one
day may take out the control.After all these years it is still a "huriccane" movie what inspired a
lot of upcoming titles whit it's superb effects.It is a total piece of greatness a must see in all meaning

******
18 January 2003
9

I have to say that I've loved this movie from the first time I saw it, and
I've seen it several times. But, the last time I saw it, a few days ago, I
actually liked it even more(don't know how that happens). I really thought
about the script, and realized that it's truly magnificent. The movie is
so
incredibly original. I might nowadays be tired of the "Matrix-effects"
that
appears in almost every single action movie made nowadays, but you have to
remember that it was Matrix that started these beautiful
"freeze-sequences"
and that everybody loved them, otherwise they wouldn't have been imitated
by
so many other movies. And the best thing of all in this movie is the
"WHAT!!
HOW INCREDIBLY SMART!!!"-scenes when you realize what the Matrix really
is.
I mean nobody could ever guess what the Matrix was until you were shown.
For
those of you who's seen it, you've got to admit you were stunned when you
saw what the matrix really was.
If you take some time to think about it, it seems like a thing that
actually
can occur in the future. The movie is really fast paced, and sometimes it
gets a little too much. It's almost too "cool" but I mean they wanted to
make a comic-like cool movie and really succeeded in those aspects, though
for some people it just gets too much. Anyways it's a stunning movie, and
I'd even advice it to those who dislike action-movies because the Matrix
is
very well written, and it's based on a very interesting thought the
Wachowski-brothers came up with. Mostly for the originality I'll give it
9/10. Can't really tell if I think it's a masterpiece or not, but It's
certainly not far from it.

******
4 January 2003
9

This movie was not only very original in its taste but also a first of
a
kind. The 'Die Hard' shootout action scenes have been dying out very
quickly
and the computer generated action is coming in to play.I really don't have much more to say. It was superb and will be
remembered that way for years and years to come. There was great acting,
cool effects, and not to mention the message...Speaking of the message, this is the only thing about this movie that
is
not original. In fact, it is as unoriginal as it gets. Its the BIBLE! Neo
gets 'awakened'. Morpheus 'dies' and 'rejuvinates'. This one will prove
it:
at the end Neo rises. He rises. Remind you of anything?? Everyone wonders
why he did that and that is the answer. It is based on the
Bible.

******
3 January 2003
7

This is good. I never had the chance to see it at the cinema, being only 12
at the time. But for it to be the 35th best film ever? Just ahead of The
Third Man? And I think it appeared in the top 20 on that chart on the TV as
well. It isn't that good. We won't be talking about it in 30 years. At least
I hope we won't.The first time you watch it. You're blown away by the action sequences, you
admire how original it it and the fact that all the actors are doing their
own stunts. But to be voted (apart from the two star wars) the best sci-fi
ever? It shouldn't, what about Bladerunner and 2001?After my third watching of this film, I ended up just skipping to action
sequences or to bits with Agent Smith, who seemed to be the only true
character. Thank god the agents are back in the next one (or so it would
seem from the trailers).I think it tried to do too much, and the ending really was AN ENDING. I
can't think of anyway that the plot could continue (unless the whole first
film turns out to be a training mission or something silly like that).
Anyway, it's good, but I think it's over-rated by fans of the
genre.

******
31 December 2002
10

The matrix was the best movie i have seen ever. The special
effects are beyond belief! I gave this movie  a 10 the first time i saw
it and have watched it many times after that with no change. I
suggest this movie to all lovers of sci-fi and action.


******
31 December 2002
10

This IS the greatest movie you will likly ever see.  (that is untill The
Matrix Reloaded and Revolutions come out)  Great to watch over and over
again because you realize countless religious, philosophical, and real
world
allegories.  I'm not exactly sure why some people don't like this movie,
but
the best I can work out is that they don't understand it.  They just don't
"get" it.  There are sooo many people who automatically don't like a story
because it doesn't spell it out for them right away.  You might actually
have to think to fully grasp the whole of this movie.  This is hard for
some
people to do, for whatever reason.  Maybe they just weren't expecting this
from a action movie.I've seen many people reference to Christien connections to The Matrix.
True, true.  (names of characters, story of jesus) And all of this was put
in there on purpose.  This was the brothers' fist big project so they put
a
lot of time into fitting all of these underlying messages in.  What many
people do not know, however, is that it is actually ment to be more
budhist
than christian.  But, since the religions have similar storylines and the
majority of people that this movie reaches are Christian, people tend to
notic just the christian allegories.  I haven't even mentioned the
philosophical end.  If  you are interested, try looking into Descartes and
Kant.  If you are really interested, you can try some greek mythology,
because that is deffinetly going to show up in the next parts of the
trilogy.

******
15 December 2002
7

Thomas A. Anderson is in trouble. Words appear on his computer screen,
telling him to "follow the white rabbit". He does, and a mysterious woman
named Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) tells him that "they have been looking
for
him" and says something about the Matrix, leaving Thomas very confused. In
his work the next day, Thomas is chased by some guys. Not exactly "good
guys". He meets Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), and Morpheus tells him that
once he goes into the real world, he can never go back. Thomas, who
becomes
Neo, does. And he finds out about the Matrix and everything.That may not make sense, but it does in the movie. Thomas A. Anderson/Neo
is
played by Keanus Reeves, keeping his status as "cool action dude" real. He
originally is skeptical, but soon learns the truth, and he begins, shall I
say, enjoy it.The Matrix draws you in with special effects gadgets and weird things, but
soon teeters away from that, making you glued to your seat because you're
wating for the next one. While there are tremondous special effects (some
were under-utilized, I'm assuming they'll be in the sequels), some of the
characters came and went, and the script (by the directors, the Wachowski
brothers) didn't really introduce them to us. Maybe if a little less of
the
fighting (which was very cool) and more of the basics had been there, it
would have been easier.Of course, movies like this can't be without mumbo-jumbo. The mystical
Morpheus does most of it-talking philosophically and not making sense at
times. I got the rudimentary idea behind most of it (like that they
actually
didn't go the Matrix, etc.), but it tried to get oo in-depth.The Matrix was fun and enjoyable, with some heartpounding scenes and cool
special effects (love that bullet-stopping). The acting was all very
good-Reeves, as I've said before, was good and might be coming back.
Fishburne is good as the guy who knows everything but cannot speak it
(i.e.
Dobby?), and I love Moss-she's great and a rising action star. I didn't
really notice that Joe Pantoliano was there, but his voice sounded
familiar.
He looks a lot different than from Memento.The Matrix is a fun FX ridden piece that doesn't waste time on "trivial"
aspects such as characters.My rating: 7/10Rated R for sci-fi violence and brief language.

******
3 December 2002
9

I believe there are lots of similarities between The Matrix and The
Bible.  First of all characters from the Matrix are similar to people
from
the Bible.  Neo is like Jesus, Morpheus is like John the Baptist and
Cypher
is like Judas.
Both Neo and Jesus were born into the world and then born again, Neo
from
that red goop, and Jesus after he was baptised.  Also the both are
resurrected Jesus 3 days after he died on the cross and Neo, after he was
shot numerous times by agent Smith.  Cypher also betrays Neo like Judas
did
to Jesus all though they both new the truth.
In the Matrix the characters are in the world(the matrix) but not of
it,
just like Christians should be in the world but not of
it.
There are also many other biblical references in the matrix like the
verse Mark 3:11 inscribed on the plate which has the name of ship The
Nebuchadnezer.  Also in the beginning of the movie the man that comes to
Neo's door calls him his own personal "Jesus Christ".
This is at least how I interpret it, and i'm sure I could find more
comparisons by watching the movie again.

******
25 November 2002
10

First of all, I recommend seeing the anime "Ghost in the Shell", because
after you see this and then watch the Matrix, you will see that the
Matrix
is not as revolutionary as before. Within Ghost in the Shell, there is
slow-motion-action "bullettime", and the concept of computer
intelligence,
with the overarching question "who am I, why am I here, what do I do."
But
anyway, the Matrix did bring the slow-motion action and many new special
effects types to the silver screen. Keanu Reeves also has a pretty good
cast
part in the movie, as long as he is cast well, he performs his parts
excellently. The soundtrack is also a pretty good fit to the content of
the
film. I'll be interested in how the story plays out in the next few
years.

******
21 November 2002
9

What makes this a great movie? The same thing that makes so many films
great, the story. It is such a good idea and put onto film so well. I
cannot
wait for the next film(s). An original story with good acting and some
interesting twists. It is worth seeing just for the fact that it shows
that
Hollywood can make something that involves the usual action stuff and
effects, but maintains a good plot.

******
11 October 2002
7

Somebody says, "What a mindjob". It is. And it would have been a lot funnier
if a computer simulated reincarnation of Ed Wood had directed it with a cast
of freaks. Perfect, however, for our brave new virtual reality world. Long.
Boring. Heads and those searching higher planes of consciousness with
'mescalito' should keep a finger on fast forward. Reality might be too much
to bare.

******
10 October 2002
8

What is The Matrix?It is the future, and apocalypse has narrowly been avoided following war
between man and machine.  Humans are now enslaved; they are merely
individual power cells, each kept alive by living' within a computer
programme  The Matrix.  Thomas A. Anderson (Keanu Reeves), exists as a
program writer by day and as Neo, an infamous computer hacker, at night. 
Following his curiosity and the instructions of Trinity (Carrie Anne Moss),
Neo is lead to Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne), the leader of a small band of
freedom fighters.  Danger lurks in the form of Sentinels and Agents, both
programmed by the Matrix to seek out and destroy free human life.  Under the
guidance of Morpheus, Neo begins to explore a life of dual existence,
discovering the truth about himself and the surrounding
world.The Matrix succeeds in being both intellectually and visually stimulating. 
Revolutionary fight scenes and state of the art special effects are matched
by a high-tempo script, and a comic book style, which keeps the audience on
tenterhooks. Although firmly based in science fiction, The Matrix is not
limited to this genre, as it explores martial arts, philosophy, religion,
humanity and love.  Fishburne is excellent as the profound Morpheus,
likewise Weaving as the eerie Agent Smith, and even Reeves convinces as the
wide-eyed Neo.  Direction is slick, with impressive camera work, a good
supporting cast and a genuinely unique feel.  The Matrix is an influential
and groundbreaking film, which deserves to be regarded as a
masterpiece
of modern cinema. 


******
10 October 2002
9

This film constitutes superb, superb imagination, humanistic theme, and
story-telling.  On top of this, the effects and martial-arts fighting are
at
the same level.  The only flaws in my mind are the occasional crassness,
(spoilers!) the lack of filmic empathy for innocent matrix slaves
necessarily killed in the war against "agents", and the final shot showing
the main lead alone instead of with his woman.

******
6 October 2002
8

I saw this movie when i was 11 years old, and I thought it was strange
and a
little bit too violent :-)! Now I love it.
It´s not my favorite movie or something like that. I just like
it.


******
29 September 2002
9

Possible Spoilers!The Matrix is probably the best action/sci-fi movie ever,alongside the Star
Wars saga of course.After watching the movie several times it still doesn't bore for a single
second.The special effects are absolutely stunning and are still the best
I've ever seen.
The way the movie is build up from the training of Neo(Reeves) to a
breathtaking final 30 minutes of non-stop martial arts slomo action and
flying bullets is just great.The cast is well picked,Reeves is a great action hero and Fishburne is very
cool as Morpheus.I also very much liked Carrie-Anne Moss as Trinity,she
looks so beautiful in this movie.
There is also a very funny part for Hugo Weaving as the evil Agent Smith,the
way Weaving speaks(very slow)doesn't make him look like the bad
guy.
Like I said,the last 30 minutes of the movie are great,or even better,they
are movie-history.Just look at the scene where Neo dodges bullets,or the
shoot-out with the cops,or the fight in the subway station,or...Like Neo
says when Morpheus makes a giant leap from one building to
another:WOW!The movie also introduced the long black coats,which are still worn by a lot
of people.
Another good part is the soundtrack.The music in the training sequence is
very fast and the last scene of the movie is supported by a song from Rage
Against the Machine:Wake Up.Overall,the Matrix is a revolutionary film with sublime special effects that
is still not equaled. 10/10 


******
25 September 2002
10

what do you get when you mix a captivating, fateful sci-fi plot, classy
actors and the competent use of state-of-the-art computer fx? high end
entertainment like "star wars", of course, 25 years ago. or "the time
machine", more than 40 years back from now. but every generation of
science
fiction produces a new, unrivalled spearhead.this time it's "matrix", that shook my perception like only "star wars"
did
before. far more mental and gothic than any other major sci-fi production,
matrix brings back faith- and faceless paranoia to a washy, starving
mainstream.cinematic future had almost drowned in a flood of predictable "bash-the
banshee" plots, filled with boring, ray-gun toting steroidtypes, ready to
fight some butt-ugly, hostile "lifeform". culmination took place in paul
verhoeven's "starship troopers", which artfully got subsequently
characterized a parody on the genre to avoid unintended
laughter.forget about all that dullhalla, "matrix" rules the brainwaves from now
on.
a fat 10/10.

******
22 September 2002
9

"No one can be told what the Matrix is".Great story, although not everyone agrees on that, great actors and great
special effects. A must see for all sci-fi fans as myself.Big Brother is watching you.

******
5 September 2002
7

I am sorry, but I trully don't know why everyone loved this movie so much.
The idea that this word is only fiction, is thousands of years old, but
instead of, let's use Hindu's word Maya (ilusion), they must use what they
used in Terminator, robots. The casting itself is good, although Keanu is
not really one of my favourite actors. The movie has excellent action
scenes, and is trying to be "deep", but when one does have some knowledge of
certain religions and their views in this world, it just sounds cheap. The
idea of a saviour I don't like much. But hey, we are all so different and
have so many views on so many things, that I can not say it is a bad movie.
It is not. It just isn't so original as people say it is.


******
23 August 2002
8

This is the best movie that I have seen in my life,  excellent special
effects.  I can say that if you liked it you should see the new one coming
in 2003.  It I'm hoping is just as good or even better.  One of my favorite
movies A+++++++!!!

******
21 August 2002
9

Matrix is really one of my all-time-favourites, the story is really great,
you can think about all the little details for quite some time, and the
effects are just absolute classics, and were quite often copied since. To
make it short: If you haven't seen this one yet, DO IT NOW! You'll like it,
everything is just VERY well done, there were no aspects that i didn't
like.


******
20 July 2002
7

By that I mean there is far more to it than the average 13 year old
appreciates. It is actually like Flip Wilson. Obvious, but with much more
underneath than his fans ever knew. Nevertheless, its special effects have
been borrowed by other films (without the logical underpinnings for those
effects), but not its various premises (e.g., humans as a virus {not
original but well expressed} and the world as a virtual reality {ditto}).
Even Keanu Reaves seems less wooden than usual (how anyone can interview so
well and act so stiffly is beyond me!). I doubt that it will be as
influential as Blade Runner and it certainly isn't as beautifully shot, but
it is quite good nonetheless. Even its fascist amorality is interesting. If
one dies in the Matrix, one dies period. How many unsuspecting humans do
they kill? True believers always think the lives of the ignorant are of no
consequence. However, it does give one pause to think how easily this was
ignored by the legions of fans.Highly recommended, though not exactly for the reasons most often
expressed.

******
15 July 2002
8

Well done, superb, and like what one other member said it does get better
every time you see it. The cinematography is something else and the set and
costume design literally blows my mind. What else blows my mind in this
movie is Laurence Fishburne. Just by watching I get this sense that he gave
the filmmakers everything they wanted for that character through his
performance. The revelation scene between Neo and Morpheus in the hotel to
me seems like it is too perfect, like it jumped out of the script and
storyboards because what was created visually worked so well. The set-design
and costumes are very expressionist themselves, and aid in the atmospheric
storytelling. The story, design, and style of the film are sure enough Best
Picture quality but the one flaw the film does have is that it at times is
way too much of an action film filled with a lot of cliches of the genre.
Though the action and special effects scenes are brilliant, I feel the movie
would be a singularly spectacular artistic achievement if it were toned down
and made for less money and relied solely on it's strong story and exciting
visual style.

******
4 July 2002
7

The action sequences are good, but the acting (minus Lawrence Fishburne)
isn't that good at all. Keanu Reeves does his best with "Whoa", just like
his Bill and Ted days. Catherine Moss isn't much to write home about, but
she does have some good acting bits. The rest of the cast isn't much. Hugo
Weaving gets tiresome as Agent Smith, but his little talk to Morpheus is
very well done. Action sequences...are actually something to write home about. The
bullet-time effect is not as spectacular as everyone makes it out to be, but
it was quite refreshing to see a different style of slow-motion. The fight
between Morpheus and Neo is spectacularly done. The last fight though is
delivered poorly. The set-up to that scene is one of the funniest scenes in
the entire movie, and funnier because it wasn't intentionally made to be
funny. Or when Neo "dusts" himself off...that's quite amusing as
well.Major fans of this kind of science fiction will praise the movie with glory
it doesn't deserve. Casual fans of this kind of science fiction will do the
same. Those who loved "Blade Runner" and "Total Recall" may see this flick
as a total rehash of the past 20 years of science fiction (both good and
bad). 7 out of 10. 

******
17 June 2002
9

I realize that I'm going to take a lot of heat for saying this, but it needs
to be said; I really, really liked The Matrix, and I think it's quite
possibly PERFECT. The story was original, the special effects were great,
and for the first time I can remember, Keanu wasn't annoying.Keanu Reeves is Neo, a software technician/hacker. He feels something is
wrong with the world, but can't put a finger on it. When he meets the
mythical Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne) he realizes that the life he is
leading isn't real. It's all just a game inside the Matrix. I don't want to
give away too much, but it's safe to say, nothing is what it seems in the
Matrix. Let's start with Keanu. Personally I think he's one of the most annoying
actors I've ever seen. As a person I like him, he seems nice enough in
interviews and the rest, but as an actor I think he's horrible. But here, he
doesn't have to speak much, and when he does, it's full of wonderment and
amazement, which is what he does best. He's mainly there to be a pretty face
and an action hero, and I think he pulls it off. Carrie Ann Moss is the
female of the film. If memory serves, she was in the ill-fated tv show,
Models Inc. She's come a long way since then. She handles herself well in
the middle of all this testosterone. And Fishburne is cool as always. He
wears these very cool shades and just has an aura about him. The rest of the
cast, lead by bad guy Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith does very well
also.
 
The story line was actually well built. At first I was afraid this would be
another one of those sci-fi films that looked good but didn't make any sense
(on a side note, am I the only person who didn't like Blade Runner?). But
here, the story starts off hard to follow, but it makes itself
understandable without making it obvious. The special effects were very
cool. You've seen a lot of them in previews and commercials, but they look
even better in context. Some of the battle scenes were amazing. And the look
of the film was done well. The world looked normal, but you could see that
something just wasn't right. The audience figured things out the same time
Neo did, which made it more interesting. The soundtrack was also good and
loud. Any movie that puts Rob Zombie into their soundtrack is tops in my
book. So while I realize that the grade I gave may be out of whack for true sci-fi
flicks, I really enjoyed The Matrix. I really didn't find much I didn't like
about it. There are several, and I mean several, mistakes such as visible
equipment and crew, and continuous errors, but upon first and even second
viewing they really weren't noticeable. Anyway, this was a very good, cool
movie, so watch it. 


******
4 June 2002
9

One of the best SF movies ever. 
Very nice special effects. 
Boggling plot 
-- you look somewhat suspicious at the world around you after watching
this film.

******
2 May 2002
8

I watched this movie during my journey in Italy for the first time, in a
language that I totally didn't understand... But I was attracted by it.
Because of what? Perfect visual effects, and attractive story. Sometimes I
think, it can be true. What's the real world? An old question.

******
21 April 2002
9

"The Matrix" is a very interesting action/sci-fi movie, that's definetely
more memorable for the cinematography and action sequences then it is for
the story.I won't go into details here, but the story, although certainly original, is
really too far-fetched and sometimes downright nonsensical. The story does,
however, offer a plausible explanation as to why all the exorbitant action
sequences (people stalling in mid-air, running against walls, dodging
bullets etc) are possible, and in the end it's those action sequences that
make it all worthwile: they are simply very cool.It doesn't happen often, but in this case I'd say that the "coolness" of the
action sequences more then makes up for any plot holes. All in all "The
Matrix" is excellent.*** out of **** stars
 

******
16 April 2002
10

"Matrix" is certainly different from anything else you have ever seen
before. Full of surprises and action, the plot gets your attention from the
beginning to the end of the film. Wachowski Brothers greatly directed this movie with an enchanting creativity
that made "Matrix" an innovating film, full of incredible sounds and visual
effects. Keanu Reeves is Neo, a hacker who is invited by Morpheus (Laurence
Fishburne) to discover what Matrix is. Curious about it, he accepts the
invitation and enters a world of pure action and adventure. Beautiful
Carrie-Ann Moss plays Trinity, who helps Neo out in his discovery.Wanna know what "matrix" is? Sit back and enjoy it!My rate 9/10

******
6 April 2002
8

The Matrix was a very good, original film, but thats all. People go on by
saying that it is an "absolute classic" "one of the greatest films ever"
"unbeatable". Its all just a lot of undeserved praise. People took the film
too seriously - leading to the formation of cult groups on the net and all
over the world.I recommend that people watch this movie, bearing in mind that it is just a
movie. If you want to watch some truly "amazing", original films, consider
The Usual Suspects, Fight Club and Gattaca.8/10

******
27 March 2002
9

The most used and talked about point in this film is the "Slow Motion"
fight
scenes, and ultra cool freeze - 3d turns. This makes up for 25% of the
films
rating. The plot is kinda hard to follow, but can be picked up quite
easily
after viewing a couple of times. The film highlights Keanu Reeves role as
Neo a highly skilled computer hacker, and as the story suggests ; what we
would normally class as reality, the world as it is now, is an eloborate
hoax, Reality, is infact a world of destruction, ruled by computers,
similar
to the "Terminator" series of films. So if you liked The Terminator, T2:
Judgement Day, and T3, you should also enjoy this film
too.

******
20 March 2002
9

This movie is one of the first, I think, that did not exaggerate the
computer world like others did and fell into cliche. Of course, they kind of
put the things in a way that everything would be possible. This movie is
what Star Wars was when it first came out. The movie from guys from nowhere
that know how to put a story on screen. I just can't wait for the
sequel.

******
17 March 2002
8

The matrix is one of the best sci-fi movies ever. It's remarkarbly unique
and different and is a weird but wonderful movie. With a bunch of zany,
wacky weird creatures (such as those octopus machine things) and interesting
characters such as agent smith (Hugo Weavings) give this movie so much
difference to your average one. Probably takes the award for the most
uniquness. The way the film looks is unbelievable as well. Dont forget to
watch this!81%

******
16 March 2002
7

An excellent, dream-like, suspenseful,action-filled, heart-beating film.  An
excellent film, with ground-breaking historical special effects, for all
adult men to see.  A Man's film.   What I disliked about the film and by
film makers in general is the use of slight green tint. It is unneccessarily
used.  I would have given The Matrix the highest rating if the film was
entirely in rich, true colors.

******
14 March 2002
8
...effects? 
Certainly, till now. slow-mov shots, amazing fighting scenes, incredible
explosions. But the question is...is this enough to make a sci-fi immortal
or it will be obsolete in 5 years?
...story?
Breathtaking, but not too intelligent, contains some minor spoilers. Despite
that, a real rollercoaster.
...acting?
Hey it's a sci-fi not a drama. Who cares.
...action?
100%.
...grade?
8 out of 10

******
22 February 2002
9

Wow this film blew me away when I first saw it back in 1999, the sound
track
is fantastic & yes I have watched the film lots & lots (though no-one's
bought me it on video).
Anyway back to the most fantastic film I have seen, ever. I just could not
get my head back to reality it was, as best described, as a "What if that
is
the truth?" I mean this film tests your brain. You enjoy it & it gives you
that buzzing sensation of "What if..." (either that or the sound at the
cinema was way too loud!).
I don't know where there going with the second film but with a cast & a
director & a producer like that (I have seen some of their other work &
it's
really good but The Matrix takes the biscuit - it's just the
best.)
M. 

******
22 February 2002
9

As we have already seen, The Matrix has been imitated and satirized for its
ground-breaking cinematography. This movie is, for lack of a better word,
astounding. During the first half of the movie, the audience is drawn in to
find out what the matrix really is. When we find out, we certainly aren't
disappointed. This film takes existentialism to a new level in
visualization. The Wachowski brothers and Joel Silver did a magnificent job
making this film. Keanu Reeves' minimal lines proved to be a smart choice
in
that his low quality acting didn't interfere too much with the movie. The
only real weakness of the film, was that ending the movie with a love story
was sappy and ill-timed. I wouldn't have minded if Carrie-Anne Moss'
character simply protested her love to Keanu Reeves' character, but the
fact
that it brought him back to life was a mistake. With all things considered,
no one should miss this movie. See it! All of you!

******
22 February 2002
9

hearing the non stop hype abou this film, and the computer Game Max PAyne
(using bullet time and other bits from the film , to make one kick ass
game)
i thought id buy the DVD.By the way if u a Matrix fan Buy Max PAyne, its almost a complement to the
Film.well i watched it and thought hmmm.while the film is fantastic i just didnt walk thinking anymore about
it...the
kunfu scenes are great credit to the actors for training...one thing i will say i cant wait for the Matrix2 and 3

******
11 February 2002
9

This excellent movie had just about everything for me:  special effects
which were state-of-the-art, fight scenes, an excellent plot.  The only
thing I didn't like about it was the length, which made me VERY
uncomfortable in the theatre (almost went to the bathroom just before final
climax).  The plot reminded me of a science fiction series I'd read about
15
years ago.  The author was Philip Jose Farmer, and the series was
"Riverworld."  Though changes were made, I immediately thought about this
'connection' (whether real or imagined).

******
10 February 2002
9

Sometimes it seems that certain people have forgotten how to enjoy
themselves. They have a keen eye to spot each and every imperfect detail,
yet they miss on the big picture, which is, to enjoy oneself and have fun.
Surely even the critics have found the movie exciting and at moments
exhilarating. Watch it in theatre or home on a big wide screen TV with the
sound volume turned up. You'll have a lot of fun! A couple of awkward
moments, like that clumsy elevator dialogue between Neo and Morpheus early
in the movie, will just represent a nice opportunity for you to relax a bit.
I've had a lot of fun watching this movie, and for its thrilling cyber-ride
I'm giving it 9/10.

******
10 February 2002
7

To me it's rare that a movie that made so much money and had so much hype is
really deserving of it but the Matrix deserved all the hype it received and
I'm sure the sequels which be nothing less then amazing. This movie probably
has the greatest graphics ever, so far at least. The acting is good, the
story is kinda stupid since they just babble about what the Matrix is and
part of it is kinda slow but the action more than makes up for it, you don't
really need a story when the action and graphics are as good as they were in
this movie. 9/10

******
31 January 2002
10
I remember back in 1999, movie audiences were also treated to what is
by far the best science fiction film of the 1990's, The Wachowski
Brothers brilliant science fiction masterpiece, The Matrix.Now, I was a little sceptical at first of seeing the film, because I am
not a big fan of the below standard acting skills of the wooden Keanu
Reeves, however, after seeing the fantastic trailer, I knew I had to
see this film. WHAT CAN I SAY, The Matrix gave science fiction fans the
best script in nearly a decade, since 1991's Terminator 2, by combining
action, philosophy, and intelligence all tightly wrapped up with the
most state of the art special effects.No wonder The Matrix completely stole the thunder from The Phantom
Menace, it had originality, and some of the best action scenes ever put
on the big screen. A 10 on a scale of 1-10!

******
26 January 2002
9

Matrix may not be a critic's classic, but surely it does differentiates it
clearly from the typical action movie. If you think otherwise, I'd like to
challenge you to watch more closely.Two things I'd highlight in Matrix: 1) it's script, which is one of the
few
in movies to get the myth of the machine takeover and the possibilities of
'cyberworld' close to a real and clear plot (being a systems engineer, I
can
tell very few movies ever got near), 2) it is visually fantastic, and not
because of the now widely copied slow-motion kicks, but because it aids in
explaining the story and telling a lot of the double world you are
experiencing. Just like the 'half floor' in Being John Malkovich helps the
viewer accept the idea of the strange world the movie depicts, the high
contrast - highly iluminated scenery when entering the matrix reminds of a
3d simulation; the excess of gunfiring could easily be taken out of DOOM
games, and the slow-motion, multiple angle camera in action scenes reminds
that, at last this matrix is a virtual world, where one can really control
the evolution of the game.In summary, I'd say it is very worth watching over and over and
discovering
new things about it. As someone said here, after watching it, one cannot
help but think how much better all those expensive-budget Hollywood action
movies could have been.

******
21 January 2002
7

The Matrix is an outstanding visual entertainment.
However, its plot is quite buggy (scenarists are confused between Watts and
Volts, Agents may "teleport" and "track" anybody but need to bug Neo to
follow him...) and not that original (Stanislas Lem's Futurology Congress,
Total Recall, Ghosts in the Shell...) so, well, The Matrix can't be enjoyed
more than twice because after that, it will lose its appeal...
What a pity...

******
17 January 2002
10

What is Matrix? `Matrix is everywhere, is around us. Is the world they
have
build front of your eyes to caver the truth'
The truth is this: Technical intelligent it's a fact, the machines have
identity and they have won the war with humans. The world is destroying
and
the mankind lives in a digital universe. One rebel group, with his leader
Morpheus, battled for liberation, save Neo, a hacker who may be the
Messiah
and saver of human race. They uncover the truth to him.That what is following is a basic elements mixed from sci-fi movies,
cyberpunk literature and comic culture. `Alice in Wonderland' meets Holly
Bible and cyber grunge shift to religiously experience. The thinking is
more
then the action in Matrix. It seems that Wachowski brothers have work out
they resources before they make this impressive storm of special effects
and
intension. Implicate Zen with virtual reality and the storm of shooting
with
violent flying choreography from Hong Kong, it seems that they invent the
action movie from scratch.
Special effects are not be used to make the explosions look more
impressive,
but to build a world from the beginning. They twist the reality, not with
unreal way, but extremely believable.
Even if the action scenes, from the frenzied chase in the roofs at the
beginning until the shoot out at the end are breathtaking, Matrix doesn't
exist only for that reason. The style triumphed, the attraction reminds us
video games, but the story raise smart questions for thinking and contain
an
impressive number of ideas. Every detail has not only knowledge and
resource, but also fantasy and particularity.
Matrix is the `Blade Runner' for the new generation. It has only one
`weakness'; it put the ell to high for the coming movies.

******
16 January 2002
7

I was actually fairly engaged in this movie until we got to the 'real'
world
circa the future of a few humans left fighting in a world taken over by
machines. At that point, this becomes a 'bad science' movie that p***ed me
off several times for such things as
- Reading the matrix off of a computer screen,
- Harvesting 'bio energy' off of humans,
- Having to create an illusion for humans to live rather than just making
them brain dead.
Good science and good SF can work together just fine, or at least make it
jive with reality!
Despite the science, this really is not a bad SF movie, exploring the
concept of if 'reality' matters versus the experience, the mental duel
with
the machine has shades of the of 'if you believe wholly in something, it
must be real; if it's not real, you must not believe wholly in it'.Being rated as top ten in the SF category (4th today) is way too high. In
the fullness of time, this *might* be considered in the top 25 of the
century, but right now it's over rated, probably by those who have not
seen
enough truly great SF. My prediction is that this movie will drop out of
the
top ten, eventually.
If you have not seen this movie, sure, go rent it. Just don't believe all
they hype you hear about this being one of the best SF movies of all
time.

******
14 January 2002
10

Besides just being a stinkin' cool movie, The Matrix is a story of the
coming of the Messiah.  The film has references to many religions and
philosophies, both Western and Eastern.  That said, I believe The Matrix is
primarily a mixture of Judaism and Christian themes, used to make the
average moviegoer ponder his/her existence and reality.
	First let me explain why I consider this movie a story of the Jews.  All of
Jewish history is of their oppression and the anticipation of their Messiah.
 In the film we are presented a race held as slaves by a stronger force. 
Those who realize they are in bondage talk of the prophecy of the coming of
their Messiah.  This Messiah will be a warrior who will overcome the
oppressor.  There are also references to the city of Zion, a place of refuge
mentioned frequently in the Hebrew scriptures, and the ship is named
Nebuchadnezzar, a king of Jerusalem found in the Old Testament book of
Daniel.
	In a sense the movie follows also bears the influence of Christianity. 
Besides the obvious reference in the name Trinity (only Christians believe
in a triune God), they are some subtler hints as well.  When the camera
shows the Nebuchadnezzar's name plaque you may notice the reference to Mark
3:11.  This verse from the Christian scriptures reads, `Whenever the unclean
spirits saw him, they fell down before him and shouted, You are the Son of
God.'  This is an interesting allusion to the Messiah and his power over
evil forces which are hinted at during the film's final climax.  Of course
there is also Neo's death and resurrection which parallels that of Jesus'. 	I also thought that this film was an interesting, though probably
unintentional, knock against Gnosticism.  Rather than transcending the
physical to be only a mind, the goal in the film is to realize that to be
truly living you must be more than just your thoughts.  You must a whole
person  the body is as important as the mind.  
	It seems the Wachowski brothers gathered pieces from many sources to create
this fantastic work of cinematic art.  This is a film that will be examined
and speculated about for years to come.  I wait with baited breath for the
sequel.         


******
12 January 2002
9

A historic movie!!A perfect modern concept of the bible,and an anarchic
way
to see life and world.I think it's not a case that the movie went out in
1999,that is,at the end of the millennium:it introduces the philosophy and
the mentality of new people's generation,and an absolutely free way to
build
one's life,destroying the idea and the concept of destiny.We're in front
of
the triumph of relativism,which is something that confutes every form of
law
that's thought to exist between humans.Every one of us is "the one" of our
life itself,and this movie underlines how this fact is important but often
forgot by ourselves.
Well done,just well done!!

******
11 January 2002
10

The Matrix is one of the all time best films ever created, and to know
that
it has two sequels coming soon, make it even more fantastic.You haven't lived, until you've seen (and understood) this
movie.

******
4 January 2002
9

Simply one of the best action films of all time. Only Keanu Reeves mars this
production. Good acting (besides Reeves), good dialog, good story, good
effects, good combat scenes. You must see the DVD or Collector's Edition,
which explains the bullet-time photography concept. Bullet-time is now a
household phrase and an idea which is mocked in many teen spoof
flicks.

******
4 January 2002
10

This was the best action movie I'v ever seen and I cant wait for the
2
sequels.Not only was the plot AMAZING! but the charecters and music were
very well chosen.The action sequences were awsome.I stand corrected
FRICKIN
AWSOME!!The actors had kung-fu training for 5 months and poor Keanu.When
they started training Keanu Reeves ("SPEED")had just had his neck
fused.When
they practiced kicking he had a hard time.Then,when they finally started
filming the movie in 98,they were going to begin the action sequences
first,right after their training, but then they got word that Keanu's neck
didn't fuse right so they did the office sceen first.OK enough about
Keanu.The editing was great in this movie.Every time someone spit up
blood,
it stayed there 'till the charecter wiped it off.And don't let the R
rating
fool you.The worst word they say in that movie is sh**and come on that's
not
that bad.The movie is very suspensful and the problems never go away.2
huge
thumbs up to the Wachowski Brothers ("BOUND")I cant possibly imagine how
they came up with this!!Every time I wach The Matrix I find somthing new
that I hadn't see before.And I'v seen this movie at least 200 times(no
kidding)along with Speed (also Keanu Reeves)So pretty much,all I'm trying
to
say is if you haven't seen The Matrix yet because you thought it was going
to be another stupid sci/fi action flic with no plot,no story line and no
reason to be filmed at all like  the other action,sci/fi movies out there
then my friend your wrong, terribly wrong.And you should go rent it to
show
you how right I am.And if you don't feel like waisting the money to rent
it
because you think it's going to be stupid,then go to JOBLO.com and
download
the script.But just let me warn you,words can not possibly compare to
sight.Ok I'll go shut up now
:) :) :) :) :) :) :) :)(: (: (: (: (: (: (:
(:

******
3 January 2002
10

The effects and concepts used in this movie had stood the test of time
when
compared to other movies using the same theme. The potential for  reality,
is what keeps me watching it time after time. The mix of new and old is
done
so well that where or when the events takes place is not a focal
point.

******
30 December 2001
8

What is real and what is just perception?  The question sounds simple, but
The Matrix spins complicated riddles of real world versus a computer
generated one so convincingly that you'll find yourself thinking twice. 
It's a what-if action film that poses the reality that nothing we see, hear,
taste, touch, smell and think are altogether real.  That human beings are
blinded in "the matrix" - a dominating computer program that fools us into
believing that this world exists.  Why you ask?  Well its simple.  Computers
are evil and will do anything to take over the world.  This premise has been
used effectively in the Terminator films, and goes further here by tricking
the audience as well as the main character Neo, played by Keanu Reeves.  Neo
begins his journey like the rest of us - ignorant to the truth.  He meets
the leader of a small resistance and must make the choice: whether to live
in a false world where computers secretly use human beings as energy
sources, or to join the fight against this invisible tyranny.  This is a
movie with incredible action sequences and ground-breaking special effects. 
Innovative camera angles and digital tinkering will leave you jaw dropped. 
The pace is very fast, and at times confusing.  The sinister "agents" are
dark physical manifestations of the matrix, and persue Neo and his
resistance group through a world that is unclearly real.  The out of this
world action scenes confine themselves to the rules imposed by the
far-fetched original concept.  This movie succeeds because of its
frightening warning and foretelling of a possible computer controlled
future.  There are a few strange and slow points in this film that leave
unanswered questions.  How Neo can actually defeat an indestructable
computer generated agent by simply flying into him is beyond me.  What
baring did the oracle have on anything?  How did Morpheus manage to dodge
the hundreds of gatling gun bullets?  What is so good about Neo and company
killing ignorant and  innocent people under the spell of the matrix rather
than rescuing them?  I guess we are not supposed to ask these questions of a
movie based on a comic book.  These small points of contention can be
overlooked for the nicely delivered bigger picture.  The Matrix is a great
film.  Final Rating = 8.2/10

******
30 December 2001
10

This was the best movie I ever saw.  The story, the actors, and everything
was just incredible.  Keanu Reeves was also incredible and incredibly hot.
This movie used state of the art technology to create an overall effect
that
dazzled audiences everywhere.  A movie that made you think twice about the
real world that we live in.  This is the most incredible movie I have ever
seen and it has been my favorite movie for around two years now.  I
recommend this to anyone.  If you haven't seen it, go rent it now.  I just
can't wait for the sequels...... 

******
27 December 2001
7

Some spoilers may arise.The Matrix combines amazing special effects, good acting, decent music, and
an excellent plot that immerses you into one of the most amazing sci-fi
action thrillers to date.
I won't say anything about the storyline as this movie is a lot like the PC
game The Neverhood--nearly everything you need to know, you learn within the
movie.Certain things are left unsaid, of course, like in all movies. This is one
of the drawbacks to the movie. You hardly ever see the world outside of the
Matrix, which gets you feeling sort of claustrophobic.
Events that take place and names of individuals, ships, and places rip off
from the Bible, which is kind of annoying since the movie is nothing
religious (although the use of prophecies and an uninteresting, "perfect"
oracle tends to make that statement false). This is a major bad part of the
movie along with its "perfect" events, as mentioned above. For example, in
the end, Trinity gives Neo a "magical kiss" that revives him from death.
Amazing how women can be sometimes, right?The music, composed by Don Davis (Jurassic Park III), wasn't too bad, but it
did seem a little repetetive at points. My brother has both soundtracks and
neither is too great, but the music does fit in with the
movie.Also, the movie tends to be a little boring. This IS the first movie, so
that much can be expected because we need to fully understand what is going
on. The explanations pretty much cover up for the lack of action that was
expected (there IS NOT a huge lack of action--there is just long parts of
explanation between big events).Without taking the bad parts into consideration, this movie is not just
another sci-fi thriller. The plot is amazing, and I've always wondered when
someone would make a movie pertaining to this kind of idea. All in all, a
really good movie, but I couldn't really watch it more than seven or eight
times.

******
24 December 2001
9

I knew not what to think of The Matrix. I thought it was probably just a
special effects movie that many other films spoofed. Or that Leonard
Maltin
was sick when he gave it a **1/2 rating out of ****. I was proved Leonard
was sick when my friend dragged me to her living room to see the DVD. Wow!
it was phenominal. I never saw anything like it.Yes, it did have a ton of special effects, but the whole movie did not
rely
on them. No one could have directed this movie better thatn The Wachowski
Brothers. It was a little confusing at times, but at the end it pays.
Thank
you, The Wachowski Brothers, for directing and writing this great
movie.This is a must see. It's not only the special F/X guys. A Must for anyone.
An 8/10

******
20 December 2001
10

Great movie, The events on the movie provides you with a lot to thing about
it.(Are we real? or our mind is programmed to make us thing
real?)
- It is a science fiction movie that provides a good story to see.- It is an 'action' movie, with a lot of guns and effects.
- It is a 'cult' movie due that other movies and adv. tried to imitate
it.
- It is an 'actual' movie due that it presents the cyberspace current war:
software copyrights vs. hacking.It is one of the best science fiction movies I have seen.You should see it on a big screen, with a good sound otherwise you will be
missing a lot.

******
16 December 2001
9

The first time I watched this movie, it was really kool. TNT was airing it
three times: Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Awesome!!!! It was still kool
when
I watched the movie again!!! Can't wait for the sequel: The Matrix
Reloaded.
I give the movie nine for great graphics, action, and fighting. (can't say
anything anymore): ) All I have to say is Great movie!!!!!

******
14 December 2001
10

This movie is terrific, not only the special effects are cool, but so are
the actor's performances and the story.I admit that this is my favorite movie, but I know that some of you IMDb
users know that all this stuff has been used before (not much... but it has
been used). The real great thing about this movie are not the special
effects,neither the story... but the way they used all the elements. They
KNEW how to use them, not like DARK CITY or other movies of this kind...Another thing that bothers me is that people just can't get it... they say
the movie is right just because the visual effects or the sound track, but
they don't realize that they are watching a great piece of art... made with
many different and sometimes "recycled" elements.We all have seen this story before, but never like this, I mean, there are
two other stories to compare this one to:1) Dark City, The 13th floor or other movies.2) Jesus.So, I ultra highly recommend this movie, and also give you a
tip:You should watch all the action scenes and kung-fu fights, then watch the
hole movie, You'll feel a very different sensation... the first one is like
watching a "star wars movie type" (A lot of action, but no plot) and when
you watch the hole thing you'll realize that the influence is so big, that
the prove of it are all the 2000's action movies.WATCH IT...IT'S ALMOST THE OBLIGATORY MOVIE FOR THE NEW
CENTURY


******
14 December 2001
10

This has to be one of the best films I have ever seen.  This movie doesnt
contain the usual sci-fi special effects, but incredible ones.  The plot is
rich and the characters are well made and played well.  This is an
excellent
movie

******
14 December 2001
7

Matrix is a good movie, and history will show that it is the movie that
made
the DVD, as people went out and bought players to watch this movie.
Innovative stunts and filming, you dont even notice reeves as the poor
actor
he is.  Fishburn is- as usual- strong, and whoever plays agent smith does a
great job.  the Computer graffics left something to be desired (im a
spoiled
STAR WARS brat), but great music and its paced well.  I felt the plot was
rather predictable (when i start saying whats going to happen, then it must
be obvious) and the religious and philosophical aspects were less than
subtle, and i defy anyone to say this movie was "deep."  Nevertheless,
along
with Gladiator and Episode 1, the Matrix is a movie that should be in every
dvd collection

******
13 December 2001
6

The Matrix has gained a hard core following of people sucked into its
visually stylish world of paranoia and false realities. Yes were in Philip K
Dick (lite) world again.  The effects are great, the cast look good so it is
a shame that the script is afraid to venture into the darker corridors that
the film always seems about to (but never does) enter. An enjoyable if
unsatisfying entertainment

******
9 December 2001
10

The Matrix clearly defined the year of 1999. It was grim, it was witty (at
some parts) and it was ambitious. Wachowski brothers sure put a great deal
of time to concentrate on absolutely every shot. Notice the green-filled
rooms with the dark clothes of the cast. Everything is in a pure harmony,
however dark it is, it is beautiful. Not to mention the incredibly sharp
and
"right-in-place sound effects. When you watch The Matrix, make sure you
turn
your attention to the echoes and reverb added to almost every single line,
also listen for the ambience effects! Overall, this is one of the best
films
ever. And I do not speak only in terms of technical masterpiece. The Matrix
has a deep plot, and strong dialogues. Actually, the only flop in the film
is Carrie-Anne Moss' performance. Although it is not weak by any means, it
could have been better. Yet, this is truly a magnificent film, which is
best
enjoyed on a big screen system with 6+ channel digital receiver, and is
best
viewed...alone!

******
8 December 2001
8

Based on R2 DVD 131 minObviously I'm a sap for the combination of ideas and images that go into the
making of the Matrix. If the black wet look, computers, hackers and wapping
great conspiracy theories are your thing then you're going love this movie.
Agent Smith deserves a special mention for his line delivery.The movie glosses over a few points e.g. (1) exactly how out heros get in
and out of the Matrix (2) when Agent Smith cracks up what happened the
original host - none of it matters :)I now look out for Reeves, Fishburne, Pantoliano and Moss in just about any
movie - so far I've not been disappointed.8/10

******
8 December 2001
8

**SPOILERS**I just saw this and the only words that can fully describe this
is - wow.
The choreography for the fight scenes was incredible, the special effects,
the sound, everything was just about perfect. The best action sequence
(!!!mild spoiler!!!) was when they rescued that black guy. That whole 20
min
was just perfect. I had a few complaints though: First, It seems the whole
idea of this movie was to become a setup for sequels rather than it itself
being all that it could of been. for instance, (another mild spoiler) they
never accomplished anything extordanary, except surviving long enough to
get
themselves out of there. not like star wars did. Also, they never had a
"main bad guy", just a bunch of agents. second the last scene was a
disapointment. as soon as he woke up he was just about invincible and
that's
never any fun. and third, i thought they could of put more work into making
the "Viruses" look more realistic. But besides this, it was just an
incredable movie. Deffentally worth a see.

******
7 December 2001
10

The matrix is...you'll have to see it yourself.  But, it's 1st class
action
fun, it's got great special effects, and nevertheless, a really excellent
plot.  If you want to enjoy a movie whenever you want to watch one, this
is
it.  I give it a full score...It's such a great movie.

******
3 December 2001
10

The Matrix is the greatest sci-fi movie since "Star Wars" and will
revolutionize all sci-fi movies to come out of the screen. The Matrix
defines sci-fi, and should be on everyone's top 10. If you haven't seen The
Matrix yet you have no idea what you've been missing. Right now this movie
is #36 on the 250 list for a reason. The action, the special effects is
magnificent , everyone would say "cool"! If I could I would give this movie
6 stars. The Matrix is my favorite sci-fi movie and it could be yours!


******
1 December 2001
9

We're still over here scratching our heads at how goofy ol' Kanoe(Keanu),
keeps getting really cool movies...like this one---he didn't have a whole
lot of lines in this one, so we agree he did play Neo like a pro! Even if
he
didn't, the rest of the cast, the storyline And definitely the effects,
made
up for it a thousand fold! I can't imagine there's anybody left who hasn't
seen it, but if you haven't---go! now! And make it snappy! Cuz you are
missing out on an extremely excellent flick! 

******
27 November 2001
10

This is one of the greatest movies of all time, and not due to the fact
that
it's got a really wide range of appeal, because it doesn't.  People who
live
for the next little dud that only shows in two cities in the U.S. and will
never be seen by more than a hundred pompous people should stay
away.The Matrix is great due to the fact that among action films, it is so much
better than anything else in the genre.  Perfect!

******
24 November 2001
9

If you want to see just HOW good your home cinema setup is then this is the
definitive movie to try on DVD. The visuals aren't "bad" either!! This is
the very first movie I tried with my Dolby Digital surround sound system
and
it certainly didn't disappoint. I still haven't found anything that will
even come close to matching it.

******
22 November 2001
8
The Matrix is considered a sci-fi classic for good reason. The action
scenes are simply outstanding. The last 20 minutes feature some of the
most thrilling action sequences ever put on film. Also, the whole concept of the Matrix is fascinating. The trailer
teases audiences with the question "What is the matrix? There's no way
to describe it. You have to see it for yourself." Well, when you see
the movie and find out what The Matrix really is, you're not
disappointed. If there is a weak spot in the movie it's in the middle when they get
caught up in the whole "Chosen One" storyline. This is too good a movie
to rely on such a stupid plot device. The whole sequence of events
surrounding this plot line reminded me of a really bad Japanese
animated movie I once saw where one of the characters kept saying "I
don't understand! I thought I was the chosen one!" (or something like
that). Why can't they just say, "he's got great potential" and leave it
at that. Let's forget about trying to create some Christ figure.

******
18 November 2001
7

The Matrix is without doubt the movie that has set the agenda for all other
action movies to follow early in the 21st century. You just have to look at
some of the action sequences from Charlie's Angels to see it's impact on
other film makers. Aside from it's undeniably stunning graphics and images,
is the film actually that great?The plot in my view is trying to be far too clever for it's own good. It is
totally unbelievable, though I must confess this is probably a problem that
lies with me and not the writers. A film has to have some basis in reality
for me to grasp and I found the whole 'human beings as duracell batteries'
plot a little too dum for this man's taste.Some of the acting from the supporting cast is top drawer, particularly
when
you consider that a few of these actors learnt their trade in Australian
and
New Zealand soap operas! Laurence Fishburne turns in an excellent
performance, which is just as well as for most if the film he is having to
carry the inept and wooden performance of Keanu Reeves.Overall I have to admit I enjoyed The Matrix and it's visual delights, but
one of the greatest films ever made? I think not.

******
7 October 2001
10

Do you want a sci-fi film that will really make you think?
This film makes you work for it. A real brain teaser that will get you
asking 'what if?'. Probably one of the best films I've seen for complete
over-all perfection, great storyline, spectacular special effects, superb
choice of cast (not especially a fan of Reeves but worked well for this
role). Definitely a lead in a new direction of special effect filming.
Enjoy!

******
1 October 2001
10

I mean, really, WHAT CAN I SAY???  How can words describe it?  Maybe Neo
put
it best:  Woah.  When I first saw the trailers, my first thought was "Who
are all those people?"  My second thought was "All effects, no plot-line."
Boy o boy, was I wrong.  Yeah, it had the effects and they were
SPECTACULAR,
but it also had one h*** of a plot.  It is my type of film.  I can't give
out
too much info, or else it wouldn't be nice for anyone else.  I just have
one
message to you all:  THERE IS NO SPOON.

******
23 September 2001
8

a surprisingly tight sci-fi movie, the matrix transcends all ages and has a
little of everything for everyone. but what definitely stands out are the
brilliant special effects, visual and aural.nothing to write home on the acting front, any pretty face would have fit
the bill, but the unbelievable effects keeps one bound to the screen right
through. the smart touches, like the "deja-vu" effect add to the enjoyment.the best thing about the movie however is the solid story-line, not unlike
an exaggerated 1984 (the george orwell book). its a surprisingly strong
story for a special effects laden action movie.check out the memorable quotes section for the movie to read some brilliant
dialogs. the score is ROCK-solid as well, adding to the thrill of a slick
movie.an entertaining 8


******
23 September 2001
10

It was always hard for me to comment movies... they are all about feelings
so, is there a way to explain them by words? In my opinion,
NO!
When i first saw it i was completly amazed by the junction of a great
visual, script, acting... it was just to good to be true! I'll try to
explain better what i'm trying to say! My all time favourite film is "Lost
highway" from director David Lynch. Its like you can't say it's a film for
everyone... by the contrary, it's hard to accept due to it's complexity.
Matrix is a "good" film and acceptable to anyone who enjoys a good time
and,
at the same time, for the ones who search "something more"!
One of the best ever... 10/10, very well deserved...

******
20 September 2001
10

I'm not sure if this movie will be regarded as favorably in ten years time
as it is now. Maybe future reviewers will laugh at the crude 'bullet-time'
effects, snigger at the blatant product placement of archaic cellphones,
yawn at the reluctant-hero-facing-an-overpowerful-enemy theme, dismiss the
philosophizing on reality as a forced attempt by second grader and scratch
their heads thinking how Reeves could go from this to his Oscar winning
spree five years later...But for now it stands as a guilty pleasure, for me at least.And on a further note, can't the Matrix just be seen as life in general,
instead of this computer controlled system. Is the Matrix not really about
the limitations that we put on ourselves, inhibiting to live life to the
fullest. A dreary job behind a desk, consuming, and acting out the role that
society has mapped out for us etc. that stand in the way of fully
experiencing the wonders of this world, or as Trinity puts it: "You know
where that roads leads to, Neo. You know exactly where it ends. And I know
that you don't want to be there." Or something like that


******
20 September 2001
10

The best action movie ever made. Period. I mean, Face/Off is a definite
close second, but John Woo missed one thing...Agent Smith! I thought the
agents were the coolest part of the movie and although the special effects
were incredible, I believe that the ensemble acting featuring Joe
Pantoliano, Carrie-Anne Moss, Laurence Fishburne, and of course...Hugo
Weaving(!) was the best part of the movie. This is a clear example of all
the cool elements of a great action movie coming together: the fighting,
the
training, and of course, guns...lots of guns. Anyway, if you haven't seen
this movie you have done yourself a great disservice and you need to go
out
NOW and rent it! I've shown you the door, it's up to you to open
it.

******
14 September 2001
10

This is one best action films ever made.  It moves quickly and is full of
tension.  And there is a good internal logic to it.  Unfortunately there
have been a lot of copycats that have followed it.  Most o those other films
don't realize thatbthe special effects and the characters flying all over
the place made sense because of what was established through the plot and
premise.  "Charlie's Angels" works for kids, but does it make sense for them
to be flying and kciking like that?  No!      

******
14 September 2001
10

When I first heard of it, I thought...oh just another big budget movie. O
boy what was I wrong. This movie has it all, A great Plot, Great actors
and
acting, filled with intense action and kungfu scenes and very good Special
effects.Go and see this one!!!! :-)    

******
10 September 2001
9

THE MATRIX (1999)
Rating: 9/10The Matrix has all the potential and more to become an action classic 
fantastic story, a star-studded cast, heaps of memorable quotes,
boom-blasting award winning sound and a kick-ass techno soundtrack. But, it
has also has something most other action movies nowadays don't have, it's
smart and it doesn't forget about proper plot points quickly, leaving no
stones unturned, no questions unanswered. The Matrix has no plot holes and
after all the explaining, it's straight into the kick-ass action! The film's
visual side is more effective than it's screenplay, bringing to life bold
visuals, stunning cinematography and tight editing, but the scripting is
still very effective and quickly paced although slightly corny at times. And
did I mention the fight scenes? Wow! I have never seen any martial arts like
this before. The best fight scenes are Laurence Fishburne and Keanu Reeves
challenging each other in kung fu and that unforgettable scene when Neo
(Reeves) dodges that bullet and the camera swerves a complete 360. Those
Wachowski's are master-workers! All in all, The Matrix is a gripping, tense
and amazing movie to watch. A simple verdict is: the more you see it, the
more it ROCKS!

******
10 September 2001
7

Ok, I'm getting sick of comments saying stuff like "The Matrix is the
greatest film EVER MADE!"That's complete and utter bullturd. Yes, it had great cinematography and
effects, yes it had a great soundtrack but NO WAY was the acting superb and
NO WAY was the storyline great.Take that storyline and stick it in any other action movie and you would
leave feeling disappointed at the end. It's major selling point was "What
is
the Matrix? You have to see it for yourself." Come on, the only plot twist
was that thing to do with Cypher, and that wasn't greatly unforeseeable,
there's things like that in every frigging action movie.The thing that set it apart was the ground-breaking camera effects, gnarly
special effects and a funky soundtrack, as well as the costume design bit,
with all that leather and expensive sunglasses. Without this stuff, all you
would be left with is your average action movie.I'm not saying it was a bad film at all, just not one of the greatest.
Highly entertaining, great to watch with your mates, definitely one of the
most interesting films in recent years. But give me The Third Man, Memento
or the Usual Suspects any day.7/10

******
9 September 2001
10

If you thought that this was just a great movie, then you are among the
many
who missed the fun in this movie.  If you only saw it once, you missed out
even worse!  The Matrix is a story of a hacker who has a question that only
one man can answer, but when he finds that man (or that man finds him!) he
will be propelled into something he never imagined possible....The Matrix, the first time is an awesome special effects, sci-fi thriller.
The second time is an above average story with several hidden twists and
meanings, the third time and every time beyond, it is a trip into the minds
of the Wachowski brothers as you try to uncover every hidden detail from
the
names of the characters, to the buildings to the dialogue.  You will love
this tastefully crafted story of inhuman-humanity that serves as a possible
premise for our future as we know it!

******
8 September 2001
9

Do you like sci-fi? Action? Comic books? Amazing special effects? A rock
solid plot? Well then folk, welcome to the Matrix. This movie was one of
the
most innovative films in a long time and it was a great deal of fun to
watch. Surprisingly, thanks to his lack of major dialogue, Keanu Reeves was
quite good in this flick! And sweet goodness, those designs by Geof Darrow
were amazing. All in all, see this movie. You'll be glad you did. Just
ignore the ending. Flying? What the hell?

******
7 September 2001
10

This film could be one of the greatest films ever made the Wachowski
Brothers almost acheived perfection with this film. The only problem with
this film is Keanu Reeves he apears almost to be wooden he doesn't show
enthusiasm towards the role but this is a minor problem which can be put
asside because of the truly superb plot and the continiuous action
sequences
which keep you on the edge of your seat and the great acting which the rest
of the cast are able to accomplish. An unmissable film!!

******
3 September 2001
9

Its a really cool movie and I think it should be the best movie of the
Summer of 2001. People ages 10 and up should watch it because they like
Science-Fiction. If I saw that movie I would rate it as 10 for
excellent.

******
26 August 2001
10

This is truly a great movie. It will definitely become a classic as time
goes by. I enjoyed this film every single time I watched it. But it was
best
the first time I watched it. If I had 1 wish in life it would be to watch
the Matrix for the 1st time again. Everything was just so out there, so
amazing. If you watch it carefully you will notice references to the Bible.
My friend pointed this out to me and it absolutely shocked me. I only need
to see this movie in 1 more way. On a Large Screen Digital TV with surround
sound. That would truly be the greatest.

******
20 August 2001
10

If I had to define The Matrix in one word, it would be: AWESOME. The movie
is all about a man named Neo Anderson, who just happens to be a computer
hacker. Neo stumbles upon a man named Morpheous, who agrees to show Neo the
REAL world. Explaining the plot outline of The Matrix in text is kind of
difficult. So, unfortunately, it is the kind of movie you have to watch
over
and over to completely understand the story. Even if you don't understand
it, the special effects and sound are worth getting this movie alone! Do
yourself a favor and go see this movie!

******
16 August 2001
10

The Matrix is one of the best movies I have seen! It has great stunts. I
thought at first that it was going to be an awful gory movie with computer
animated stunts that you can tell are fake but boy was I wrong! It is
definately the opposite! It has great stunts, and it's filmed to
perfection!
It is the best movie I've seen and I think that you would like it if you
are
into exellent movies.

******
16 August 2001
10

I would warn anybody reading this that there might be a few spoilers in
here, but if you're one of the four or five people on the planet that
haven't seen this movie, you deserve it. I hate to call this an "action
movie," because THE MATRIX is so much more than that. This movie has
more to it than can be described in a single paragraph. The special
effects are groundbreaking, the acting was surprisingly good, but both
only served the purpose of getting people to see this movie. The true
greatness of THE MATRIX lies in all its underlying themes: the
apocalyptic nature of the film, the myriad number of Biblical references
(e.g. Cypher being a play on the name Lucifer, or the name of the
hovercraft being named the Nebuchadnezzer after the Babylonian king who
freed the Jews), the faceless evil that was the machines running the
planet, and the incredible feeling of hope within the film that
perpetually touches the audience. This movie has it all, and I have yet
to come across somebody that didn't put this in at least their top
2

******
13 August 2001
7

There is so much that's good about this movie, it's a shame that there's
even a little that's bad about it- but there is. First of all, the bad: some
of the performances and dialogue are a bit stilted. Not even the main
characters are particularly developed beyond their central archtypes-
Trinity and Neo's love story isn't the least bit believable because of this.
The final scene is just silly. And the whole film has the Messiah Complex,
which has been done and done and done......
Okay, enough haggling. Here's the good: everything else. The whole idea is
cool. This just might be the launching film for a whole mythos, like 'A New
Hope' and (hopefully) the first Lord of the Rings movie. There are metaphors
and analogies here, a lot of them. The Wachowski brothers showed great
promise with their very first flick, the terrific 'Bound', and continue to
do so here. There are small things that intrigue me- things like the little
robots that help with the human-harvesting and look like a cross between
insects and surgical instruments. Visually, the movie is nothing short of an
unprescedented marvel and has already proven to be one of the most seminal
films made in the last couple of decades in that regard. Hugo Weaving is a
true find- amazingly creepy as Agent Smith, he absolutely exudes menace and
contempt for humanity. The story is rooted in our race's fear of our own
creation- technology. Technology has been our salvation. It has allowed the
human being- a physically inferior mammal with few natural characteristics
to recommend it- to thrive. Cautionary tales that display our fear that it
will also be our destruction abound- 'The Matrix' is one of the
best.
It will be interesting to see how the series develops. It could be as
important to the action genre in terms of complete, complex story-telling as
it already is visually. One can hope. With the Wachowskis at the helm,
there's a good chance.     

******
13 August 2001
10

The first time I saw this movie, I was amazed! The second time I saw it,
I
was in awe! The third time I saw it...I had to see it again!
I'm serious, this is my favorite movie EVER! It has everything: Action,
Adventure, Suspense, Romance, Sci-Fi, even a little humor! If you've never
seen this, you should! I give it a 10 1/2!
You'll walk away feeling like you have to see it again. Definately. Take
my advice, the special effects alone are worth it...but it also has an
excellent, mind-blowing script!
I hope you decide to watch this movie soon, it's the
best!

******
13 August 2001
10

"The Matrix" is a must-see for anyone who has an interest movies.  `The
Matrix' has excellent acting/cinematography, a deep plot, character
depth/development, suspenseful/thrilling moments, incredible action
sequences with great special effects, and loads of symbolism.The plot revolves around Neo(Keanu Reeves) who `lives two lives'.  By day
he
is Thomas A. Anderson, a program writter for a software company.  By night
he is Neo a computer hacker who has broken many laws.  It all begins when
Neo is contacted by a mysterious man named Morpheus(Lawrence Fishburne),
who
is the leader of a rebel group.  Neo is then told the true nature of his
reality.  All of the characters are portrayed excellently and are in no way
your ordinary heros and villains.  Contrary to popular belief `The Matrix'
did NOT rip-off `Dark City'.  There are a few similarities but not enough
the mean anything.`The Matrix' proves that plot can aid action sequences.  Similar special
effects are used in different movies but never had an explanation.  The
martial arts scenes are done rather well considering none of the actors
actually knew much martial arts.  The wirework is done excellently with
only
one noticeable flaw: the characters go flying back too slow and their feet
shake.  All of the fight scenes are choreographed to near-perfection.Overall `The Matrix' is a masterpiece. Almost anyone who sees it with an
open mind and understands the plot will like it.  I've heard various
reasons
why people say they didn't like it.  Many say they don't like it because it
is too fake or unrealistic.  They need to realize that it's a science
fiction movie and that nothing said `Based on a true story.'  Others say
the
plot is bad.  If they say that I doubt they understood it.  Many don't like
Keanu Reeves. Well true that he hasn't had many great performances but his
performance is exceptional in `The Matrix'.In the end `The Matrix' is probably the deepest, most entertaining, and
most
exceptional movie you can watch and will keep you captivated the whole
time,
then keep bringing you back to watch it again and again.

******
12 August 2001
10

When I first saw the preview for this trailer I was a bit confused.
However,
on March 31st, the opening day, my eyes stayed opened and my popcorn and
pepsi remained untouched. The Matrix is surely one of the best movies that
I
have ever seen, and I have seen quite a bit of movies. The special effects
are simply out of this world, and the fight scenes are definitely awesome.
Not only are these things spectacularly done, but the lobby shootout scene
certainly makes this movie a must-see for everyone.

******
11 August 2001
10

I was a little unsure when voting the full 10, knowing that there's at
least
another two films on the way?  What if they're better - what would I give
them?They'll have to be really good though, to beat The Matrix.  This film is
science-fiction at it's best - action packed, but intelligent.  When
someone
says sci-fi , people associate nerds and geeks, but this film blew that
away, gripping just about everyone. I don't know a single person who didn't
like it!The fight scenes are superb, pushing boundaries with technology, while it
allows itself to be quite fascinating with it's attempt to parallel the
Human race... with a simple virus, eating up its resources.This is a must for anyone, surely! Roll on the sequels!

******
10 August 2001
9

The arguments for and against this film are many. Most people say it
glamorizes violence, and while I certainly don't dispute that, I can say
that this isn't the most violent film out there, or even the most violent
one that I've seen. Personally, I loved the film. I could go on and on about what I like but I'm
sure a hundred other comments have already covered it. So I'm just going to
urge you to see it, if you haven't already. Go see it. My Personal Rating: 9/10

******
10 August 2001
10

Matrix is one of the best pictures ever made. That's obvious, and people
who
say that is boring and stupid didn't understand the film.Is the most intelligent film I am ever seen, and it gives us another vision
of the fantastic films.This film is only for intelligent people, people who can enjoy one of those
films that makes you think when you go out of the cinema.I am sorry if you are one of those people who like films like Titanic,
Independence day or Armaggedon, but this film is not for you and if you
want
to see it or you have already seen it, you should sit, relax and see this
movie a thousand times, until you've understood it, because it may be
difficult, but you will enjoy this incredible movie.10/10 

******
8 August 2001
8

The Matrix was a surprising delight of a movie. The story is deep and
interesting and it flows along well. The visuals are the best part of this
movie. It's great effects to the likes of which we really have never seen
before and are done in a way that's just fasinating. The characters are
mostly all played well, particularly Keanu Reaves who plays his best role
since Speed. The only downside to this movie is that in the end it really
never gives you any clear thought to what has really happened. Still I
really liked this movie and give it an 8 out of 10. 

******
6 August 2001
10

The Matrix is a  comic book like film that should've won 1999's best picture
award at the Oscars.  If you haven't seen the film, see it!  This film has
probably the best imagery ever seen in an American film ever!  Keanu Reeves'
wooden acting doesn't even hamper the movie!  It actually gives it a type of
comic feel.  The special effects are awesome and the actors look cool doing
it.  Every time there's a fight scene, it seems fresh and original.  This
was the first time I'd seen wire work period.  Wire work is also utilized
well in the foreign film "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" which was also
robbed of the Best Picture Oscar. This is the one action/sci-fi film no
movie library should be without.  10/10

******
4 August 2001
10

What is the Matrix?an Extremely good movie.  
The Matrix is about this guy named Neo. (Keanu Reeves)
One day his computer does somthing wierd and he is entangled in this mess
about saving the world.  He finds out that the world he knows is a fake
pulled over his eyes blinding him from the truth.  He Finds out that he is
The One and the is the only person who can save the real
world.

******
3 August 2001
9

One hell of a movie, although I doubt most younger fans who seek the
roller-coaster disposable thrills like those in the Matrix will appreciate
the superiority of of better movies like "Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon".
(Just look at some of the Matrix and Jackie Chan fan replies over
there.)Nonetheless, I would have given the Matrix a 10 instead of 9 except for the
very flimsy background premise regarding the matrix concept itself and the
"human-battery" concept. Come on, first of all, if sunlight is blocked out,
ALL life will die on earth. If not, then what's the point of harvesting
humans for energy? If there is no energy, than how the hell are humans going
to survive? What are the 'bots feeding them? Rocks? Give me a break. And
excuse me, all this aside, did anyone ever hear of muscle atrophy? I think
Keanu would have to spend months in therapy before he could walk to the
slop-kitchen after spending his entire life in a cocoon.Other than that, I though The Matrix was the most original and exciting film
since the original Terminator. But I think the Terminator had a much tighter
and well thought out background premise..

******
2 August 2001
8

 "The Matrix" is that rare movie that exceeds expectations, and then some.
It is original, thought-provoking, great-looking, and constantly surprising.
It also is proving to be the most influential and widely-copied film since
"Pulp Fiction". The writing and plotting are far superior to 99% of the
action movies out there, combining already familiar sci-fi elements ("Star
Wars", "Lawnmower Man", "They Live") with Zen philosophy and martial-arts
mayhem. The zeitgeist of the millennial era is perfectly captured here,
exploiting the apprehension and bewilderment many people feel at the
overwhelming advance of technology, while celebrating the indomitability of
the human spirit. I only hope that the sequels can maintain the same level
of excellence. "There is no spoon" 

******
29 July 2001
10

What is The Matrix?
After you see a movie like the matrix you have to ask yourself is it
really
the truth, do we really live inside the matrix or in some kind of a
matrix.I can't answer this question, but if you focus on the little things in the
movie you'll find out how much it really is similar to our
world
and to our purpose in the world.If you seek entertainment, kung-fu fighting and unbelieveable special
effects you'll like this movie, but remmember that this isn't the most
important part of the movie.

******
27 July 2001
10

I spoke to a lot of people who lost interest half way through mainly
because
they were not paying attention. Okay..Sci-Fi is not everyone's cup of tea,
but everyone else should really stick with it.The cast is strong, especially Lawrence Fishbourne who draws you further
into their world with every statement he makes" , the choreography is
spellbinding as you start to believe they can do almost anything, the
special effects are Jaw Dropping and the plot is mind-blowing.This film has everything and will leave you thinking about it for weeks
after seeing it..."What if"..."So does that mean he is"..."Are we still
here"I bought a DVD player on the strength of this film and cannot recommend it
highly enough.As the film's tag says "You can't explain the Matrix...You have to see it
for yourself"Brilliant Stuff!!!

******
27 July 2001
10

The message behind this movie can be applied to a billion things in our
lives.  If you are religious, than all others walk around oblivious to the
"truth."  The same applies to those who are:  militant, libertarian,
enlightened, highly intelligent, insane, practical, overly-sensitive,
down-to-earth, etc.....
I could watch this movie a million times over and feel educated each and
every time.   This is an important film.

******
25 July 2001
10

Ooohh! This movie is slightly above the average, just kidding. It's much
better than your normal sci-fi/action-movie. The action scenes are greater
and more well-made than anything that at least I've seen before. The story
of the movie and the feeling of the movie is also something special. The
movie has a strange kind of feeling which allows even a normal conversation
to get your adrenaline going. The movie is straight phenomenal. It surpasses
2 hrs but the 2 hours feel like 15 minutes because the tempo of the movie is
so fast.The acting is also superior in it compared to any other action movie. The
cast including superstars like Laurence Fishburne and Keanu Reeves also has
a solid set of great actors in supporting roles.  This must be the most
well-made, most thought-out action/sci-fi movie ever and I'm surprised this
wasn't nominated for best movie during the oscars, since it is so
entertaining and every second of it is an experience not to be
missed.

******
25 July 2001
10

The Matrix is one movie that is hard to get tired of. I have seen it
exactly
164 times and still love it!!!!! The pros of this movie are: Amazing
effects, really cool action, and an excellent soundtrack. The cons: Only
real action is at the end, at some points hard to understand. Other than
that, it is highly recommended.ps                  To the MPAA,What were you thinking when you rated this movie? Give it a PG-13 for
crying
out loud! 

******
24 July 2001
10

This great movie continues the challenge to movie makers to get out of
typical Hollywood formulas and use current movie talent and technology to
place on screen the same kind of magic that sci-fi writers have done for
comic books.Compared to the incredible philosophical/technological stories
that have been done in sci-fi literature during the last hundred years or
so,the Matrix's highly praised story is very plain!This is due to how much
more catching up the movie industry has yet to do in comparison with the
great sci-fi literature that has accumulated over the years,waiting to be
visualised thru movie magic like Star Wars,Star Trek,Superman,The
Terminator,2001,Alien,Bladerunner etc..Yes we have these great sci-fi movie
greats at hand but they are still rare.Becouse of this rarity,movies like
THe Matrix get so much praise.It is a resut of the movie fans demand for
more quality sci-fi movie literature such as this.We do not have to be stuck
with the same old literature for movies where in we will have to do with
Star Wars part 10 or Alien part 8.The abundance of great sci-fi stories are
out there,waiting to be turned into great movies.The Matrix was made and it
delivered.A great comic book that makes us think and entertains us.It even
entertains the ones who don't really think too much,like the people who just
look at the comic book pictures.Sci-fi movie making 101......      


******
24 July 2001
10

The Matrix is the best movie I have ever seen. There is no movie like it.
One of a kind.
Perception: Our day-in, day-out world is real.
Reality: That world is a hoax, an elaborate deception spun by all powerful
machines of artificial intelligence that control us.
Mind-warp stunts. Techno-slammin' visuals. Kick-ass action. Keanu Reeves
and
Laurence Fishburne lead the fight to free human kind in The Matrix, the
see-and-see again cyber thriller written and directed by the Wachowski
brother. The story sears, the visual effects stake out new movie making
territory - the movie flat out rocks!!
It also has the best gun scenes and action I have ever seen.(chapter
29)

******
23 July 2001
10

This movie is great! It's kind of hard to understand at first, but once you
get it, it a really great movie. It has awesome special effects, a great
plot, and great characters. The Matrix will be on my top ten list for many
years to come.

******
19 July 2001
10

All I can say is The Matrix was an incredible movie!!! It may take more
time
to watch it and I've watched it at least 30 times before you can
understand
it all because it's so complex and a well backed-up film. Aside from great
storyline and philosophy The Matrix delivers unbelievable action still is
in
line with the story, amazing feats and new things can be performed in The
Matrix because The Matrix is our world. For all of those who haven't seen
the movie The Matrix is about a hacker named Neo (Reeves) is sidetracked
by
his normal job as a hacker, who doesn't get much sleep because all his
life
he has suspected something odd about the world he lives in and he has
absolutely now idea what it is. The only thing he knows though is that he
wants to find an answer. Finally, he meets a man named Morpheous
(Fishburne)
who shows him how and what Neo has always suspected which is the world is
flawed. An amazing story showing that earth or the world everyone lives in
has been manipulated by machines and the real time zone we all live in is
in
about the century 2199 A.D. Neo has a hard time adjusting to this new
thing
he has discovered after being unplugged by the neural interactive
simulation
(Earth or The Matrix) and discovering all the world is, is everyone
communicating with each other is a fake world. After, Morpheous teaches
Neo
that in the world he has been living in, he can do almost anything that he
was taught wasn't possible in the world he used to live in. Providing
amazing action and special effects that are absolutely incredible!
Cinematography, shows he these amazing stunts are pulled off at the end of
the movie, anyway I could go on forever, but you have to see The
Matrix.

******
18 July 2001
10

This movie really has it all, and even though that sounds like a bought and
paid for testimonial that some crap movie would shell out for, it's the
real
deal with The Matrix.It looks good: The Wachowski brothers continue their beautiful work (after
Bound) to give The Matrix a visual richness that most directors today seem
to ignore. Great angles that let you actually see what's happening, moody
sets that really create an atmosphere even before anything is said, and
well
placed and utilized special effects that don't take over the theme are all
examples of where these guys are coming from. I think they call it "vision"
in directors. Whatever it is, the Wachowskis have it, and they don't just
make movies, they craft them.The characters are solid: Sure, hack on Keanu all you want, but he fits the
role of Neo to a tee, and I can't think of anyone who would have been more
convincing. (As convincing, sure, but no one moreso.) Fishburne,
Pantoliano,
Moss, and Weaving are subtley brilliant, playing up their characters
without
going over the top. There is not a wasted word of dialogue, and it is all
delivered in just the right way. Delicious!The Plot is as cool as Terminator, but with more philosophy: The Matrix
actually makes you think, and while that is good in any movie, it is even
more golden in an action-driven movie like this. Not only do we have to
question the age old dilemma about what makes us exist (We are if we think
we are? Would it be better to be a happy brain in a vat or a miserable
person?), but we also get to play with the entire meaning of the Matrix
itself. Personally, I think The Matrix is actually the mass
media/materialistic society itself that has blinded us into being mere
consumers. My metaphor has Neo discovering that the real world needs him to
be more than some working stiff cog in the machine--it needs him to break
out of the consumerist cloud we all walk in to become a modern day
revolutionary. But that's just me. The movie works no matter what you read
into it.Finally, the special effects are special: I don't usually put much stock
into effects. A movie that hypes tricks isn't usually much of a movie. The
Matrix, however, really uses the effects to propel the plot and give the
atmosphere some credibility. In other words, I don't think the movie was
conceived to showcase some breakthrough techniques in cinematography, I
think the story was there and they needed some good visuals to help tell it
properly. There's a big difference.When all is said and done, The Matrix is one of those movies that I can
watch over and over again without getting bored, it is just so well done. I
give it a perfect 10 without hesitation--I can't ask for anything
more.

******
14 July 2001
9

Amongst great action and special effects is a movie that makes you ponder
reality.  The theme to the movie for me is: Is Ignorance Bliss?  Do you
continue living day by day with blinders on to what's really around you or
Do you dare to think out of the box?  Mix one man's quest for truth with
great action and special effects and you have one amazing action film!


******
8 July 2001
9

The Matrix is an action movie with excellent special effects and an
unorthodox science fiction plot. If you are an action fan, I don't need to
say no more: you HAVE to check it out. If you are looking for something
deep
this movie isn't it. Nevertheless it has spetacular fight scenes with an
interesting story so you might want to see it eventually.One of the things about this movie is that it has a lot of innovative
special effects and camerawork. Some of these effects have since been used
in other movies but it is still cool to see how it was originally
done.

******
7 July 2001
8

While this movie seems to be highly rated on this site, there also seem to
be a lot of users slamming this movie. Obviously, the movie is not
perfectly
realistic. There are logistical problems with how the Matrix would work,
the
whole concept of Zion is ill-concieved, but I think what the Wachowski
brothers were essentially trying to do is transfer a comic book to the
screen. If you look at the book on the making of the Matrix, or of some of
the storyboards shown on the DVD, you'll understand what I mean. Not to
mention the planned anime prequels.Morpheus is a 2-dimensional wisened mentor of a super-hero, nothing more,
nothing less, and Fishburne plays him excellently. Neo was supposed to
just
be confused a lot, which Keanu can do pretty well. Joe Pantoliano was
great
as Cypher, and Hugo Weaving was excellent as usual as Agent Smith. All
relatively simple, yet well-written and well-played characters.Carrie-Ann Moss is a pretty bad actress, and she looks like a cadaver.
That's really the only flaw in the movie.The brothers Wachowski very successfully articulate their comic book
vision
on-screen, and it is a visually stunning film with great effects and well
thought out action scenes. The opening of the hotel lobby scene is one of
the coolest things I've ever seen.Stop criticizing this movie and take it for what it is, a slightly more
serious, less mindless, action-packed sci-fi movie. It's already being
imitated throughout Hollywood, but once that clears up in a few years,
people will see how original this is.If Star Wars deserves its spot on the Top 250, then the Matrix definitely
does. 

******
27 June 2001
9

During my first viewing of The Matrix, I believed that this was quite
possibly the best film ever made. Maybe it was the cool evening air
against
my tired head, or the hard ground beneath my sore bottom, but in
retrospect
I was almost definitely wrong. It is however a really great sci-fi action
film.The story revolves around one Thomas Anderson (Reeves), or Neo if for some
strange you prefer, and for some strange reason he does. He is introduced
to
fellow ridiculous name barer Morpheus (Fishburne) by the attractive
Trinity
(Moss). Oodles of special effects and numerous fight scenes later, Neo has
pretty much saved the world.The acting is fair, with the film's best performance coming from Hugo
Weaving as the evil Agent Smith. Everyone is excellent in the fight
scenes.The movie is visually astounding. The special effects aren't there just
for
the sake of special effects, and it is the imagery that they create which
makes the film stand out among its rivals. See for example the scene of
the
matrix as it is in reality, with Neo wired up as a battery.To get the full-effect of the film, personally I'd advise watching, as I
did, on a small projection screen in a tent with lots of people chairing
for
Carre-Anne Moss and advising Neo `Take the red pill', `No, take the blue
pill', `Take both'.9/10


******
25 June 2001
9

Keanu Reeves in a sci-fi movie?  Remember Johnny Mnemonic?
Thankfully it didn't put Reeves off of starring in the Wachowski brothers
trip into Wonderland.  Breath taking special effects and a hip soundtrack. 
The list of pros for this movie could go on and on.
I can't believe there is anyone out there that hasn't seen this movie yet
who intends to but if so then quit reading this and rent the DVD.  Even
better, get to a late show of it.  This film has to be seen on a big screen
to be fully appreciated!


******
21 June 2001
8

I couldn't believe, in going through the first page of user comments, how
many negative reviews I read on this movie.  How did so many of you not like
this movie and yet, as a group, choose it as #30 of all-time!?Second, what is it with all of the complaints of plot holes, acting, and
screenplay?  Come on people, were you honestly expecting Casablanca?  Would
you ever watch a movie starring Keanu Reeves and expect it to top "Speed" on
an intellecual level? I get the feeling that so many users on this site don't know how to
throughly enjoy a movie just because it is fun.  It has to be "intelligent"
or "original."  Otherwise it's a waste of your time.Ok, now that I've vented a bit, let me say what I thought of the movie.  It
was what I expected to see.. a highly entertaining movie in the style of a
video game.  The acting was not bad, and I thought Keanu Reeves was far from
"terrible", as one reviewer put it.  Let no one think that he was even close
to being robbed on oscar night, but his acting was the best I've seen from
him thus far.And let's not forget a wonderful aspect of this film... Don Davis's score. 
Don Davis has been contributing with great orchestrations for other people's
scores for some time.. including James Horner.  But he is a highly
sophisticated composer with great technique.  It is great that he is finally
getting an opportunity to be behind the composer's wheel.Now the most attacked part of this movie is the plausibility of it.  Hey,
there is much of it that I found unbelieveable.  But I didn't find this
distracting.  Every now and then, it's good to just enjoy a movie for the
entertainment value, which is what this movie is about.  It's not what I'd
call a "brainless" action flick.  But I couldn't imagine why anybody would
go in to this movie expecting a whole lot more.  Just have fun, and don't
analyze it to death.

******
14 June 2001
8

Question reality. Question everything. Its hard not to like a film that has
this much attitude. Rarely does a big budget Hollywood movie send such a
strong message about looking deeper into the world around oneself and
thinking independently of the crowd. I saw this movie numerous times in the
theater. One of the most interesting and original sci-fi premises of our
modern technology driven time. Excellent plot, dazzling stunts, top notch special effects, and great
characters all combine to create a wonderful film. Sometimes the dialogue is
rather weak, but this movie is so full of kinetic energy, you can't get
bored with it. Fans of all genres should enjoy. Final Rating: 8/10Noob Aalox
 

******
4 June 2001
9

Wow...that's the only thing you can begin to muster up after this movie. I'm
serious, it's true. This movie defies all sorts of rules- gravitational, or
otherwise. The special effects kick butt, and the characters are both
believeable and alter-reality-type-of-cool. While many people believe this
to be a copy of other movies, I think it's very original. Andy and Larry are
wonderful, and I think their movie will become very well-known and special
(like it isn't already, hehe). I own this movie, and someday I'll go back
and watch it with some of my friends. We've already made many movies where
we reanacted some of the scenes. :)

******
26 May 2001
7

Certainly this film was interesting and groundbreaking.The effects broke new ground.  What made this film also unique in this era
was not only the look and feel, but there was actually an INTERESTING
CONCEPT behind it!  Wow!  A 90's film that wasn't brain dead! Most action films are so stupid they are pathetic.  While this film was not
literary genius, it was a good plot and a great concept.  Unheard of in an
ACTION film.  The concept also was such that it allowed for the suspension
of logic in the action.  Instead of stupidly ignoring science and physics,
this film said "none of this is real"!  What better venue in which to create
a surreal world?While the cocept was almost brilliant and the plot was reasonably well
developed, I wish the writers had gone just a little farther with the
intelligent potential this concept offered.  It was still a little "dumbed
down"; just not as much as most movies today.  If this film had added a
little more time and expanded on the concepts, plus added a higher education
level to the dialogue, it could have been one of the greats of all
time.Still, this movie remains a rare breath of fresh air in a world of otherwise
hackneyed plots and trite dialogue.


******
11 March 2001
7

Okay, I liked the Matrix.  Hell, I loved it.  But it does not, NOT IN A
MILLION YEARS, deserve to be number 38 on the top 250 list!  It is not that
good.  Okay, the special effects are great.  The action is superb.  Okay,
the plot is good and so are the characters.  I am not calling it bad.  But
anyone who votes this movie a ten out of ten has no movie education.  The
Matrix is just a phase.  It's a fad.  Twenty years from now, will it still
be on this list?  I don't think so.  How dare you people put this movie in
front of Das Boot, Raging Bull, Fight Club, Almost Famous, and Apocalypse
Now.Okay, I do love the Matrix, but come on, giving the movie a 10 out of 10 is
saying you wanted the movie to win best picture!  I know that the top 250
list is the best list in the world because it takes EVERYONES vote.  It's
not a bunch of old geezers in the AFI; it's anyone and everyone.  But,
please people, think before you vote.7/10


******
4 March 2001
9

Overall, the matrix is a powerful film. The plot is wickedly creative and
almost shocking the first time you see this movie. The directors are
obviously very talented, and the atmosphere of this movie is very, very
cool. The acting was decent but nothing fantastic, although I really liked
Laurence Fishburne and the main detective. I normally dislike Keanu Reeves,
I think that he is a very mediocre actor. However, in this movie his lack of
acting skills fits the clueless Neo role perfectly, so he's all right. I
have to say that the first half of the movie is amazing, then it starts to
taper off a bit. Unfortunately, the last 15 minutes are truly disappointing.
Throughout most of the movie I was amazed at how original everything was,
but the end was full of cheesy clichés. Although it is a low-point, the
ending is still good enough to make this a truly great movie. It is surely
one of the best action movies of the 90s. I give it 9/10

******
21 February 2001
8

The first time I saw this movie I was not greatly impressed.  I had been
hearing about it from all my friends and how unbelievably awesome it was and
I think I got my expectations up a little too high.  However after
successive viewings it has definately gotten better and the special effects
were probably about the best I have ever seen.  The only problem is that if
this movie wasn't a rip-off of Dark City (which was also excellent) then it
is one of the most amazing coincidinces in history.(spoilers)
A few similarities:Both films feature a hero with superhuman abilities that doesn't realize his
full power untill almost the very end.Both heros live in a completely artificial world.Both heros are menaced by beings that all look basically alike and human but
something isn't quite right...Both heros are assisted by shadowy figures who seem to know the whole
truth.Both heros have a climactic battle with the leader of the aforementioned
beings using the superhuman powers which they share.Both of them get the girl (but I don't guess we really count
THAT)These are just what spring immediately to mind but go watch both of these
and you will be able to draw quite simple and clear parralles.That having been said I did still enjoy the Matrix.  I give it an 8 out of
10.

******
19 February 2001
9

the matrix is not a film you can explain to someone without them seeing it,
so i won't even try. All you need to know is that it will make you and your
friends want to fight eachother at impossible speeds, just remember, you do
not know kung fu.Quality fight scenes from a film that oozes cool.


******
7 February 2001
9

There are films that it is worthwhile to spend hours musing over, as to
whether the film offers any deep spiritual insights or teaches us something
new about the world.  In my opinion, this ain't one of them.  There are no
'hidden truths' to be found, no startling insights, just an amazing action
flick that on its release delivered thrills 'n' spills unlike any audiences
had seen before.One comment I read mentioned that audiences can 'cheer' for the hero.  I
disagree.  Keanu Reeves brings little more to the role than the ability to
look cool dressed all in black.  Not that he gives a bad performance, just
that there is little empathy there.In this case, though, that hardly matters.  What impresses is simply
that
we are given something new to see and not merely an uninspiring rehash of a
thousand action cliches that we've seen put to better use
elsewhere.In short, an awesome spectacle.

******
7 February 2001
8

I've seen it five times at the cinema, three times on video and twice on
DVD. "The Matrix" is probably one of the best science fiction action
movies
to date. Borrowing fight/action choreography from Hong Kong cinema and
drawing on camera work similar to that seen in "Blade", "The Matrix" fuses
them together with awe inspiring special effects. Keanu's acting short
falls
are well hidden and the pot is well thought out.Most people will love this film, and rightly so, but if you are under the
impression that these fight scenes are the pinnacle of cinematic
achievement
then I am afraid they still pale in comparison to Hong Kong offerings. If
you do subscribe to this opinion then I would strongly advise you towards
renting "Drive directors cut" from your local video store. You won't be
sorry.

******
7 February 2001
7

The Matrix really is a mesmerising film- the first time you watch it, it
mesmerises you with its effects, great action sequences and brilliant
camera
work. It is well-deserving of the acclaim it has received for these. If it
it were based only on these, I would give the film 10/10.Yet looking at it closely, there are certain parts of it that ruin the
film
for me. First and foremost is the horrific dialogue, usually from Laurence
Fishburne. How much cryptic trash must he spout before he gets rid of all
those clichés? It sometimes feels like a failed attempt to turn an action
film into a philosophical message!Not that the plot was bad though. It may have been taken from any number
of
movies, yet it was an interesting twist on the average action film. I
wouldn't call it the best sci-fi film ever, or the one from which all
others
must follow, but it is certainly well-thought out.I gave Matrix a 7 because, despite the interesting story, it still feels
like an attempt to make an action movie into something more intellectually
challenging. At first glance it is a very enjoyable and is very
impressive.
However it's appeal comes more from its action and stunts and really it
should have been left as that.

******
4 February 2001
9

Dear Matrix Viewer,With every highly successful film (especially a film involving the Academy
Awards(tm)), there is a backlash some time after release.  There are several
reasons for this backlash, one being that people generally don't like what
they perceive to be "too much success," whatever that may be for a person. 
Some people seem to feel personally diminished when they witness a great
success -- or they compare a film to a personal favorite, rather than
viewing it 'in isolation' -- for what it is AS IS, not for what it's judged
against.Another reason is that many don't realize a film is *more than the sum of
its parts*.  When a movie is first released, this fact is generally
recognized, and a movie is enjoyed as a whole.  Later, people tend to pick
the film apart, viewing it as *the sum of its parts*, and concluding that
because of the perceived faults in various parts, the movie itself can't be
so great.  The sense of a film as *the whole banana* gets lost when people
pick it apart.Yet another is that people generally get tired of hype.  Many are bothered
by commercial hype, and feel that when individuals hype (enjoy/love) a
movie, some sort of unforgivable sin has been committed.The psychology of a successful film could fill a book.  Notice how well
"Titanic" was received when it appeared on the big screen -- people were
seeing it then as a movie, a whole -- and AS a whole, it's a great film. 
Later, people saw it as the sum of many different scenes, and so it seemed
like a poor film.  It's just too easy to lose the ability to watch a movie
AS a movie after it's been around for awhile, and people pick and pick at
it, until even the greatest film can appears flawed and generally
worthless.Anyway, if you understand some of the psychology behind how films are seen
by people due to various factors, it all starts to make sense.  And (perhaps
unfortunately) it gets to be quite dull watching the (at first) intelligent
comments on a forum like IMDB turn to black and white -- either it's "the
greatest movie ever made" or it's a piece of... well, you get the
idea.THINK, people.  And please, try to see how the effects of *time* upon a
motion picture operate.  Why a film that was initially perceived as a
stunning achievement by both the public and the critics can later be viewed
by many as "lousy," or alternately become canonized in people's minds as
"the greatest movie of all time."I still rate The Matrix 10/10.  I still know how to see it as more than the
sum of its parts.  I hope you do, too (or will, someday).

******
2 February 2001
7

I didn't see this movie in the theater when it first came out.  I admit that
was mostly in due to the fact that it had Keanu Reeves in it.  Quite
possibly the worst actor of our generation.  However, I am not the type to
write something off until I actually see it.  I had heard through reviews of
others that it was a thought provoking and original idea and I was hoping
that it would live up to the hype.  Boy, was I disappointed.Granted, we live in a world where originality in movies, books, or any sort
of fiction is a rarity.  While almost every conceivable story has been done
in some sort, we do occasionally get something fresh.  The Matrix, despite
the common belief is not one of these.  It is, in fact, one of the oldest
stories in the world.  Refer to Plato's Allegory of the Cave in The
Republic.  Is this why I'm saying The Matrix is a forgettable movie? No.  I'm saying that because the acting is less than stellar, aside from a
great performance by the always entertaining Fishburne.  In my opinion, the
movie would have been much more tolerable were someone like Johnny Depp
chosen for the part of Neo.  At least he can actually act.  On top of this,
the movie rides more on action sequences rather than plot or character
development.  The Matrix isn't the only movie to take from Plato's Allegory of the Cave. 
It has been done on more than one occasion.  However, if you want a good
story, go with The 13th Floor or Dark City.  If you want action sequences,
the Matrix is better off for you.

******
25 January 2001
7

This movie is easily one of the top 10 sci-fi/action film ever but c'mon,
they can move faster than bullets so the heroes grab GUNS??  Stupid plot
point, lazy actually.  The visuals are outstanding and the mystery of
'reality' is the selling point.. the part Keanu was born to play (because he
didnt have to act).  8.5/10

******
25 January 2001
8

The ratings on this film are way overblown!  Excellent special effects, a
bench mark for sure.  Yet in all other aspects of film, this movie is far
from the litany of 8s,9s, and 10s it is receiving. Sure I bought the DVD as
soon as I left the theater but people, 2001 ASO, Alien, Blade Runner, etc.
those are 8-10.  This movie is little more than a 7 on special effects
steroids.

******
18 January 2001
8
...that I should not have rated The Matrix 10 out of 10 at the
first time. I
should have discovered that it stole too much from other genres. (Like
"The
Ghost In The Shell" which is an Anime movie (really great!) from 1995!!
And
it contains the "greenish" program code all over the movie.)Or i should have discovered that these very cool (i mean it!) special
effects
WERE actually stolen too, because those were animated in those manga (or
call it Anime) films before. All they had to do is to make it real, not
pencil drawn.I'm a bit disappointed, because Matrix was my favorite movie (and still
is)
but I give it an 8 out of 10 now, after seeing "The Ghost In The Shell"...
Man, the flying scene, where the agent lands on the rooftop, and stands
up,
that's EXACTLY what Major Kusanagi did in "The Ghost In The
Shell".4 years before The Matrix... And I think.. That's a shame.
:-)Matrix rocks. It's still very good. I'm just asking myself: Why can't a
REALLY good looking movie contain original ideas?!There are 10 out of 10 films out there... Try "The Cell" or "The
Cube".Those are original.Thanks for listening!

******
17 January 2001
9

  "The Matrix" is one of the best Science Fiction movies of all time.  It
yields a great plot, characters, and action, as well as a theory about human
existence and life as we know it and implies a warning about the control of
Artificial Intelligence.  This movie was released at the perfect time.  When
it was released in 1999, the world still was frightened of the Y2K problem,
which might have become a problem related to the problem in "The Matrix." 
Also, Artificial Intelligence was (and still is) just arond the corner,
frightening audiences world wide.  The third reason that it's release was
impeccably timed was that special effects allowed "The Matrix" to become
more than a Sci-Fi/Drama, it became a Big Action/Sci-Fi film with a dramatic
story.
  
    The way this movie was filmed and directed really made the entire film
worth-while to see.  The special effects, though made in 1998-99, are still
cutting edge.  The camera angles actually show a bullets path as well as a
way to rotate around a great fight scene in slow motion.  The camera angles
were just fabulous and turned "The Matrix" into an even better directed film
than it already was.  Another cool directorial attribute that made the film
even better than it would have been was that most of the color blue, only in
the Matrix not reality, was taken out to make the setting look dismal and
show that the Matrix really was a repressive and depressing
place.  Many questions are raised after seeing this movie.  Although I can't
reveal them now, I can tell you that this movie is worth seeing for maybe
only this reason if you're not big on movies but you are big on philosophy. 
The directors created a wonderful picture that was beautifully directed and
superbly acted.  I can't say enough for this movie, it was just amazing. 
You could see this movie and enjoy it, but I know that you'll do more than
that, you'll see this movie and be amazed.

******
6 January 2001
9

This is a great action movie, and the best I have ever seen! I only saw this
the other night, but I enjoyed it so much that I went out and bought the DVD
today!
The plot is great, the acting is superb and the action is brilliant! The
Kung Fu scene is nearly up to Jackie Chan standards, and the gun battle in
the lobby is amazing.
This film has great special effects, and Carrie-Anne Moss is outstanding as
Trinity.
I can't wait for "The Matrix 2"!

******
30 December 2000
7

Now that we have had the pioneering-stages of film-making, and passed
through the first stages of computer-animation and graphics creating the
illusion of another world within the one we live in, life and movies could
have become exciting. But in fact the results are pretty disappointing.
Hollywood bores us almost to death with re-makes and re-makes of re-makes
and the results are almost consistently worse than the originals which at
least, but certainly not only, had the profits of being original. This
case
isn't much different. The producers should be given credit in creating a
fantasy and doing it convincingly, as well as doing a good job on dealing
with some of the special effects and stunts. Fighting scenes are not too
bad
either, but lack involvement, and could very rarely be called exciting.
This
makes the Matrix certainly not a thriller or good action movie. In this
way
the Matrix is disappointing due to a weak plot, a badly told story that
suffers from a lack of story-telling abilities, involvement, surprise and
continuity. This movie could make a nice prequel to a series, but a lot
needs to be done to really make this a success: better and deeper
characters, a good story-line, a more realistic view of mankind, better
directing and more involvement with characters and less attention drawn on
special effects could make the sequels a good start for a new kind of
sci-fi
movies. The cast seems good enough, and should not be blamed for the way
the
story evolves in this movie; one only gets the idea, certainly after
having
seen the extras on the dvd and 'the making of'-documentary the attention
of
the directors and producers was drawn almost totally towards the 'Kung-fu'
and special effects this way creating a life-like comic-book sci-fi movie.
Some involvement of George Lucas could do a lot of good to this movie,
even
if only consulting him on creating and telling stories. But he certainly
would not have been proud of this movie if the result would be this
disappointing on so many points.
Referring to the beginning of this comment, the Matrix is hugely
overrated,
but over-looking the releases of the last few years this should not be a
surprise... people are not exactly spoiled with good movies, and if trying
to be original could be rewarded, this movie should earn an award for
maybe
a not fully successful, but at least one of the most successful attempts
to
be original of the last few years. Maybe only exceeded by the largely
underrated 'Dark City'.

******
24 December 2000
8

Sure, sure, sure, read all the other comments for the good part of the
movie. I'll hit the bad point, guns were not that good, they disposed it
easily, bullet smoke had stringy graphics, spiral. 
And the beginning is so boring, most of the action came in the last 25
minutes. One of the top 10 of the century, I think not. It does not deserve
this position, sure the stunts were good, just look at the amout of fighting
it had, 25 minutes? So much time was wasted on talking, Agent Smith got a
lot of fighting, the big agent got 1 scene, should give more to these
actors, and the other one, the thinnest of them got nothing to do!!!!
Common!! That's rather slack to actors, and producers, millions of bucks for
wearing glasses and no stunts. Good stuff was the stunts of Trininty and Neo, Trininty and the big agent
were my favorite. Special effects of everything except bullet smoke was
good, fighting was good, story was good. The whole movie was good except for
the fact of the boredom viewers recieve for everything except for the last
25 mins of the show. I hope Matrix 2 turns out more action less talk.


******
24 December 2000
9

This movie was extremely well written, with a plot line that could almost
seem believable.  Reeves has a great performance mostly due to the
casting,
which called for a clue-less heroic, that Reeves is very good at.  The
special effects were one of the best portion of this film, they were
visually great and revolutionary to the industry.  One of my favorite
things
about the making of this film is that the martial arts scenes were not
complete acting.  I loved that the actors were schooled for about 2 months
to make it much more believable.  The music throughout the film was also
great, being hip and exciting.  Overall I loved this film and cannot see
it
too many times. 

******
22 December 2000
8

This movie is an absolute tour-de-force.It took my breathe away and captured
my imagination for weeks to follow.'High concept' is so necessary of big
budget productions and the Wachowski brothers deliver.The only weak point is
the dialogue and some of Neo's weak comments were most unbecoming of the
saviour of the world.This is nonetheless overshadowed by a strong
story,awe-inspiring special effects and solid performances by the emsemble
cast. To truly appeciate this movie,the only medium worth viewing it on outside a
cinema would be a DVD.The DVD is a must for all fans since it provides
insight into the making of a mega sci-fi movie.I look forward to the sequels and I am sure that the Wachowski brothers will
get back to work in their usual passionate way to produce trilogy- like
episodes.Lucas would have loved to have this movie to his name but for me Star Wars
is still the benchmark against which all sci-fi productions must be measured
by if only for the reason that it is a true trilogy.

******
20 December 2000
10

This is the best Sci-Fi flic since Aliens. An absolute must on DVD, simply
because the special effects are fantastic. For the action, blow-em up
smash-em up lovers, it has everything you ever want. However, what makes
this movie exceptional is the actual answer to the question, what is the
Matrix? The Matrix is conceptually, one of the smartest ideas in Sci-Fi in
years. Keaneu Reeves has often been accused of being one dimensional. Well, if that
is true, this is the dimension that all of the critics speak of. He's
perfect for this movie, as are the rest of the cast. 
Fishbourne is brilliant and Carrie-Ann Moss very sexy. However, the most
effective actor in this movie is Australian, Hugo Weaving. Weaving plays the
villain , with a great blend of intelligence and indestructibility that
makes you wonder how or even if he can be defeated.This is one of those Sci-Fi action movies that gets better the next time you
see it. I have seen it twice and I'm sure I'll see it again and enjoy it
even more.

******
20 December 2000
10

if I had to choose the best film ever, that would definitely be THE
MATRIX.
It's the only film I've ever seen that combines astonishing
scenario,fantastic visual effects,action and a promising end which is very
important for a film to be successful.
The plot puts your mind into a lot of thinking about the real world and
really gets you in Neo's shoes.
Once you start watching the film, you won't be able  to think anything
else
but THE MATRIX for many many many hours (even after the movie
ends!).


******
13 December 2000
10
..from the acting to the soundtrack, to the visual effects, to all
the twists...I just loved the fact that I could; FOR ONCE; watch a sci-fi
movie and actually *understand* it the first time around.But what I loved the most is how this flick takes you to another world. A
world where being the lead character requires you to do the hardest things,
because they're the right things. Like Blade Runner's Ford and "5th
Element's" Willis, this movie takes you to another world; futuristic and
intense.How cool was it to refer to having 'deja-vu' as experiencing a glitch in the
Matrix. "It's when they change something", Moss replies. That was cool!Not sure about the plot holes, though. I didn't realize there were any.I *do* think there could've been a lot less "gun" violence...the White
Zombie song playing in the background while Reeves and Moss blow away
innocent people could've easily been playing during martial arts scenes or
the slow-motion 'dodge-the-bullet' moves.Either way, 'The Matrix' is a 9.5 out of 10.

******
12 December 2000
10

If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then a lot of people must
really like this movie. The amount of times I have seen what is now called
Matrix-style action in other movies and shows is quite
something.Some people might dislike the fact that other people seem to be copying it
left and right. I don't mind. I loved the Matrix; why wouldn't I want to see
more?Great acting (even by Keanu! weird) and a fine overall movie. If you haven't
seen it yet, shame on you. 9.5/10 on My Personal Scale.

******
11 December 2000
10

[May contain what a reasonable person might construe as a
spoiler]Man, I've seen this movie about 10 times.  You're clicking thru 7 channels
of HBO and stop and say "Not the Matrix again!!!", suddenly you look up
and
50 minutes have gone by.  You realize that it's too late to do any real
studying so you finish the movie.Nonstop action, some of the plot has seriously flaws, though.  If you see
it
more than twice, you'll understand.  Also, the end was just a little bit
cheesy.Otherwise, GO RENT IT, turn it off 5 seconds prior to the end of the
movie,
heheheh.

******
3 December 2000
10

One of the best films of the decade and perhaps the finest sci-fi of all
time finds these merits--not from its excellent visual and special
effects--but from its philosophical underpinnings.The power of The Matrix comes from its (unintended?) inspiration from the
Christ story of bondage and blindness to the illusionary natural world of
pleasures for a season vs. the truth of eternal life through the
sacrificial
blood of the Lamb of God, Christ the Messiah.  There are so many
comparisons
between the Christian world-view as portrayed in Scripture and The
Matrix---be it the natural/supernatural and Matrix/non-Matrix experiences
or
Christ as Redeemer and Neo as Savior---that is is impossible to belief
that
were it not for the Christ-story, The Matrix (the movie) would have ever
existed.That is not a criticism.  Just a testament that the greatest stories find
their sources in a reality higher than our own and a select few have
opened
their minds enough to tap into this truth.

******
27 November 2000
9

I first thought that this movie would be no more than the typical
action-packed summer movie.  But as you get more into the movie you
realize
that behind the action scenes and special effects there is an engaging and
intelligent plot driving the entire movie.  While not all viewers would
enjoy this, I think that everyone should at least give this movie a try.
It
is not to be missed.

******
25 November 2000
10

So many people have commented favourably on this movie, there's not much I
can really add. Except that it's incredibly refreshing to see an
intelligent
action movie. It's a real rarity in a society where action movies have
been
getting dumber and dumber. I think this film pretty much sounded the
death-knell for the standard brainless Schwarzenegger/Van Damme genre
(notice how relatively unsuccessful such movies have been since "The
Matrix"
was released). Perhaps "Total Recall" would have been as good as "The
Matrix" if the original lead, Matthew Broderick, had starred instead of
Arnie. Whatever. Reeves is perfectly cast as Neo, and the support are
equally fine.If you like this movie, you should also check out Alex Proyas' "Dark
City",
a film which tackles a similar subject in a completely different (but
equally satisfying) way.Rating: **** out of ****

******
24 November 2000
9

The Wachowski brothers (Andy and Larry) may seem pretty new to some film
watchers.  However, they were behind the 1996 thriller 'Bound' which was not
a huge success BUT...have you watched it?  Anyway, enough about that, let me
talk about 'The Matrix'.  When Rudyard Kipling wrote the poem 'If' he missed
out the crucial line..."IF you can put up with Keanu Reeves' poor acting ability, you'll love every
film he's in"This is no exception to that rule.  In fact as Reeves plays Neo/Thomas
Anderson, a computer hacker who knows nothing and understands nothing about
'The Matrix' he fits the bill quite perfectly.  He's handsome, has a good
athletic build and a huge following ever since his debut in 'Bill & Ted'. 
Laurence Fishburne on the other hand, as he proves in this movie, is some
kind of screen God.  Again, no-one else could really fit the bill as the
amazing Morpheous.
Some say this film has a slow start.  These people are known as 'impatient'
and obviously do not realise the importance and brilliance behind the early
stages of the film.  9/10 - you've missed it on the big screen which is
where it belonged, but watching it on video won't make that much difference.
 It's still a brilliant film and shot into my top ten from the moment
Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) ran across that roof top in that pvc
suit!

******
22 November 2000
9

The first time I saw The Matrix, I thought it was such tosh that I didn't
even bother to watch all of it. When I came on Cable TV, I decided I would
give it another go. I watched the whole thing, and I was thoroughly
impressed! I think The Matrix is one of those movies were it must be seen
twice to be understood, and to be liked.Thomas Anderson (Keanu Reeves) is a bit of a slacker, selling illegal
software on the side under the pseudonym 'Neo' to finance his computer
hardware needs. He wants to find someone called Morpheus (Laurence
Fishburne). He's searching for the answer to a question. He has no idea
where the question came from. But the urge to discover "What is the Matrix?"
will lead him to places where nothing is what is seems and to people who
hope he is The One...Although over-hyped, The Matrix is a largely entertaining sci-fi thriller
with an attitude. The action sequences are stunning, the sound is immaculate
and the acting is very watchable, Fishburne in particular is amazing as
Morpehus.Overall, I strongly recommend The Matrix. It is a stunning, clever and
unique thriller with style.I rate The Matrix 8 out of 10.

******
20 November 2000
10

SINCE there are over 2000 reviews on this film already, there is not much
more I can add, but....Special effects are the best I have ever seen. Keanu Reeves acting is his
best yet. The story and plot is fascinating.
Supporting cast are excellent. Action scenes are awesome!I have seen dozens of science fiction movies, very few of them have lived up
to my expectations. For example, check out the utter lousiness of Hollow Man
and Species 2! The Matrix is one of those few films I have really enjoyed
and given a 10/10.I am surprised to see so many reviewers comparing this film to Star Wars
Phantom Menace. That flick was dumbed down to suit pre-pubescent teeny
boppers, never mind adult audiences, with atrocities like (dare I say) Jar
Jar Binks and lame C.G.I!  The Matrix, however, is far superior to the
over-rated, over-hyped S.T.P.M. CONCLUSION: Mr Lucas should watch this film a few times to see how C.G.I
should really be employed to its best advantage in a movie. Darth Maul, eat
your heart out!

******
18 November 2000
10

This movie will certainly remain my favorite for quite some time.  The
action and movie affects are engrossing, and it will be the standard other
movies are compared against for at least a decade.  The story was
creative,
the acting was supurb, and overall I can't think of a single
flaw.Great movie!  Buy the DVD and watch it over and over.

******
15 November 2000
9

Fantastic movie that really only works when your sound system is excellent.
I've watched this one at least ten times, and the difference in the
experience is remarkable.  I've never known a movie to hinge so much on its
sound quality.
Beautifully, hypnotically photographed, in a comic book storyboard style.
Keanu is surrounded by top notch actors, and he rocks as Neo.  So what if
the philosophy here is half-baked New Ageism; suspend your Critic and Listen
to this fun action feast.

******
12 November 2000
10

These days, with all the loud, intense marketing that accompanies major
movies, it's sometimes difficult to separate the film from the hype. 'The
Matrix', however, is one film that is even bigger and better than the hype
that tries to sell it.It's rare these days to find movies with no plot holes, no plot flaws. Even
with the recent improvements in SFX and CGI, it's rare to find a movie
where
the effects just cannot be flawed (well, on freeze-frame I actually found a
bungee cord that the wore-removal guys didn't do such a good job
on).The Matrix not only lives up to it's promise, but far exceeds it. It
redefines excitement.Hugo Weaving is a much under-utilised actor, one of Australia's best. It's
good to see Australian actors like Russell Crow and Guy Pearce getting the
attention and plaudits they deserve, but Hugo Weaving should be working
more. Whilst he is superb here as the evil and emotionless villain, check
out some of his previous Australian miniseries ('Dirtwater Dynasty' and
'Bodyline') to see him really shine.


******
9 November 2000
9

I want not 2 but 9 sequels just like Star Wars. It can be done.  Keanu
Reeves best movie since Speed and Devil's Advocate. Lawrence Fishburne is
good and Carrie Ann Moss is absolutely stunning. The action sequences are
amazing and set a new bench mark for future movies.

******
8 November 2000
8

I thought this film was great, but only for the bullit time sequences. If it
wasn't for them, then it would have only have been average. The story was
good, but not original. (the future controlled by robots, where have we
heard that one before?)Its a great film for the visuals, I've seen more thoughtful films and it
isn't perfect, I think some things are overrated, I don't buy into this c**p
that it makes you question your existence and is the most intelligent film,
but I think that people who say its the worst film they've seen are just
coming down harsh on it because it was more impressive then Episode 1, or
because of the hype, don't believe the hype, go and see the film and make
your own mind up. Its just a really great action film

******
6 November 2000
10

And, wow!  Just as I was surfing the IMDb site, I wondered: "What IS the
status for 'The Matrix 2'? And about the third, as well... Where are they
filming? Where...."And low and behold... it came to me.  What if this whack-ass Matrix mindtrip
is only three to an enormous 9-episode venture similar to (HELLO!!!) 'Star
Wars'!My God!  Do you have any idea how insane that would be.  Okay, just a
thought.  Go back to your life now.Love,Comm Major

******
4 November 2000
10

This is a must see for anyone...it's one of the top 250 films, and I am not
surprised. Keanu Reeves does a great job in playing Mr. Anderson / Neo. This
movie also has the best special effects I have seen in a long
time!The Matrix is a world that is controlled by Agents. Neo, along with a few
others, are in the real world, and they want to break free the people in the
other world. What is going to happen? You'll just have to find out! I'll be
very excited when Matrix 2 and 3 come out!

******
3 November 2000
7

THE MATRIX is a great special-effects movie, setting a higher standard for
future releases.  It was for this reason alone I purchased its DVD.
Casting, on the other hand, I found to be weak, its leading roles unable
to
draw on the significant elements of the story.  In this, I failed to sense
the peril of a society held hostage in a virtual reality.  Keanu Reeves,
as
Neo, adds to my disbelief by neither portraying a knowledgeable computer
hacker or a savior of humanity.  Laurence Fishburne, as Morpheus, faired
little better as a mentor or a zealot..  If there was an emotional
highlight
in the film's presentation, it must have been the acting of Carrie-Anne
Moss.  Her characterization of Trinity showed the loyalty to their cause
and
the sense of underlying fear needed to make her rebel character
believable.Whatever the problems I found with THE MATRIX, watching a new generation
of
special-effects debut was pure enjoyment.  Future productions will have to
reach even higher into our imagination than ever before to match THE
MATRIX.
Simple copying of its techniques will never produce that sense of wonder
found in their first-viewing.

******
27 October 2000
10

The Matrix is a technical and special FX marvel of unbound lengths. What
they have put together here, the scenery, the colors, the lightning, the
sets, is a true masterpiece of the sci-fi genre. The story, a bit more
serious and exponentially more intelligent than the folly of Phantom Menace
released in the same year, does make you think about the privacy of our own
world. This question has always been around us, although maybe in a
different tone and not as dramatic as how The Matrix brings it out. Are we
really monitored and watched by someone? When we purchase by credit card,
make a phone call, go on the Internet, what have you, all of those signals
broadcast out, are they being monitored? It at least plants a thought in
your brain compared to some of the other recent mindless sci-fi films which
includes the aforementioned Phantom Menace and Wing Commander. There are a
few parts of the movie that were recycled from earlier films. I don't really
mind since NEARLY EVERY sci-fi film since the birth of the genre has
recycled one of the older concepts at one point or another. It's already a
known fact. Tinkering around it however and throwing in your own blend and
style is what distinguishes the new from the old.Every character in the film is unique, with the exception of maybe Neo who
Keanu expertly plays as another airhead. What I like about the characters is
that they work with each other well.  They rely upon each other's individual
strengths. Neo could have turned into a one man show easily for the entire
film but it took everyone to get him there and he feeds off of that.I'm glad that this film did so well with the awards and the box-office. It
tells you the sci-fi genre, the serious sci-fi, is still
alive.

******
26 October 2000
9

This was a movie I wasn't going to see until friends talked me into it.The story was interesting especially the many analogies one can find in
it.
If you take it too seriously it is a load of rubbish, but if you think
about
concepts and analogies there is a lot of thoughtful statements being made
in
this movie.The acting was pretty good especially "Orpheus".If it had not been for the many blasphemies scattered throughout the movie
I
would have rated it more highly. I still think it is one of those movies
that are worth seeing even if you aren't into science fiction.

******
25 October 2000
8

The movie had all the elements of great science fiction and action and
breathed fresh life into an almost stale genre.  While over long and not
playing as well on video it has an originality which is lacking from most
big
budget films.

******
25 October 2000
10

(You have to excuse the bad spelling, because I'm from
Sweden)I think this picture is one of the few pictures with out any flaw, the
other
one is The Shawshank Redemption.All the special effects is so well done that it really was a relief when
it
won the Oscar for best special effects and not Star Wars episode
I.
And the fighting scenes is SO beautiful and I usually don't find those
kind
of scenes to be any good, since I feel I've outgrown them (I'm 21 at the
moment).
But here in The Matrix they are like....art...To all of you who hasn't seen this movie... you really have missed
something!
The scene in the hallway (those who have seen it know what I mean) is on
of
the best scenes in the movie, total action is the least you can call
it.

******
14 October 2000
9

Thomas Anderson (Reeves) is computer analyst by day, and a computer hacker
by night under the alias of Neo. He is saught out and found by a man called
Morpheus (Fishburne) who believes Neo is 'The One' for The Matrix. he is
then taken out of his dream world which he lives in and brought to the real
world, The Matrix, is as it seems a computer generated dream world, in which
we live in, and people in the dream world can enter and exit freely as they
want. The only problem is agents led by Agent Smith (Weaving) who is trying
to steal a code to wipe out human existance as we know it, and Neo is the
person Morpheus needs to help him. Starring many Australians including Matt
Doran (Home and Away), Belinda McClory (Blue Heelers) Ada Nicodemou (Home
and Away), this movie proves that Australians can make good movies (im
apologising on behalf of all australians for any bad australian movies you
may have seen, and if you count The Castle as a bad movie there is something
wrong with you!!!)So as i was saying this is a very good action movie (especially the fight
scenes between Fishburne Vs Reeves, Reeves Vs Weaving and the gunfight
scene. Top Stuff10/10  

******
11 October 2000
9

An example of science-fiction movie based on philosophy and deep thought.
Great visual effects, great performances. A movie to see more and more. If
you have a personal idea of virtual reality and parallel histories, well
"The Matrix" will help you to find something you didn't
know.

******
5 October 2000
7

The Matrix is a good, entertaining movie. Spectacular visual effects and
amazing sound. It would be easy to write this movie off if it did not
essentially deliver what it was made to do: entertain. I don't know if the
Wachowski brothers were trying to include a deeper, almost philosophical
meaning to the movie, but I didn't watch it for that. I watched it to be
entertained. There are movies that can be entertaining and deliver a
powerful message at the same time... I think this one failed in the latter.
The Matrix is, I'll say again, good entertainment. It deserved its Academy
Awards by all means, but for it to be in the Top 50 Greatest IMDb movies is
outrageous. Maybe this movie will be the foundation for all science fiction
movies to come within the next 20 years, we've already seen evidence of
that. What if there were no special effects? The famous sci-fi films like
Star Wars and E.T. would not be as outstanding without the special effects,
but there would still be a good movie there. Now The Matrix, take away the
visual effects, what do you have? Basically a poor screenplay and some lousy
actors.

******
4 October 2000
10

Gets better every time I watch it.  A mind boggling concept behind the
plot.
Sometimes I think about it and get the shivers.   Some of the action
scenes
are already classics for their originality and are being duplicated in
other
shows, TV and movies.  My favorite Keanu movie. 

******
2 October 2000
10

As far as the genre is considered this is the all time single most
beautiful
piece of Art ever captured on film. The acting I wouldn't consider to be
the greatest of our time but the vibe and the overall message was by far
the
most wonderful visual feast I have ever had the pleasure of viewing. What
a
brilliant movie by The W Bros. these guys kick serious !@!@#@$! Also a
must
see is the movie "Bound" if you like anything by The W
Bros.

******
30 September 2000
10

When I went to the movies to watch The Matrix I admit that I wasn't
expecting for a good movie at all but when it started I realized how wrong
I
was. This movie is great! It depicts in a very interesting way how the
human
being is living nowadays. Certainly, one of the best sci-fi movies
ever!

******
26 September 2000
10

What will people say 50 years from now about the Matrix??
They'll call it a classic.  It's already a classic now.
From start to finish, it's a joyride of bullet dodging, mind-bending, a$$
kickin' special effects with the perfect people for the part.  I can't
wait
for the sequels.  The Matrix trilogy will surely be the "Star Wars" of the
computer generation.

******
25 September 2000
9

Of all the blockbuster movies that were shown last year (1999), I would
rate
this second only to Fight Club in overall appeal. Even as "The Phantom
Menace" entered into the summer, "The Matrix" was definitely the premier
Science-Fiction of the year, making up where "The Phantom Menace" failed so
miserably. (Anyone that up-plays "The Phantom Menace" over this movie is
jealous because everyone ragged on their "precious, infallible Star Wars"
and placed this one far ahead of it, which is rightfully so. Don't get me
wrong, I love Star Wars, but this movie is definitely better than Episode
One).There were at times some cheesy moments, most notably the romantic moment
between Neo (Keanu Reeves) and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss). Neo wasn't as
strong as one would hope our hero to be, but it can be understood that he
is
taking his situation in all at once, converted from just a simple
programmer/skilled hacker in the process of reorientating his entire
knowledge of things. To understand the movie of course, one would have
follow the advice of Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne), "Unfortunately, nobody
can be told what the Matrix is. You have to see it for
yourself."The effects were excellent as well as the action sequences, not to mention
the plot concept had been very intriguing, original no less. It is
certainly
worth seeing for anyone who wants to think about new concepts afterward.
Anyone who thinks this was a terrible movie DOES NOT appreciate
Science-Fiction, and probably believes classic literature is the only kind
of literature. Let them watch "Citizen Kane" if they like and leave these
movies alone.

******
25 September 2000
8

Many moviegoers have voted The Matrix as one of the greatest films of all
time (current ranking on the IMDB 250: 31st), but it does not deserve that
ranking.  It is however, a very good film for its genre(s); a sci-fi
thriller with lots of martial arts. I won't try to explain the plot, because I only started to understand the
story about an hour into this film, and even then am not sure what was going
on. That being said, The Matrix is arguably Keanu Reeves' best film. Reeves,
who is constantly derided as a mumbling surfer dude, fits his role perfectly
as a hacker/possible savior of mankind.  The martial arts sequences, while
somewhat campy, are amazing, and the video-game-like action sequences are
certainly unique (did he really need that many guns, though ?)  Laurence
Fishburne and the always good Joe Pantoliano are also very good in this
unique film.  Among the best films ever ?  Not by a long
shot.


******
22 September 2000
10

The Matrix is one of the best films I have ever seen. The special effects
in
this film are out of this world. How somebody came up with this idea is
beyond me. It is the most original film ever. The Matrix won all 4 academy
awards it was nominated. I think that Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne
both deserve an Oscar. This movie should have won best film, best script
and
best director. This movie also has the coolest action scene. In the Lobby.
I
can't wait for the sequels to come out. They could never be as good as the
original though. FIGHT FOR THE FUTURE.

******
20 September 2000
10

This has become my all time favorite Sci-Fi film!  Sure the classics are
great and the Alien series (first 2), Blade Runner, et. al, are just amazing
films too.  But this has even more everything than them.  More story, more
ideas, more plot, more acting, more F/X, more graphics, more character
development.  The plot is really well thought out, which is often the
problem with the other strictly F/X films - that thought didn't go into
them!  This has some really great acting, great and memorable lines
(especially from Keanu), slick and sexy fashion, UNBELIEVABLY great F/X, and
a real story!See this film - I can't rave enough about it.  It's simply awesome.  It is,
on my scale, a nearly perfect film - and there are only a hand full of
those!  So I have to give it a 9+++++/10Enjoy!!!!!

******
18 September 2000
10

What can I say about this film that hasn't already been said? How about
this: black long sleeve designer t-shirt + lightning fast Kung-Fu special
effects = "ooh-la-la!" That aside, the plot is absorbing and it longs to be
greater than an ordinary sci-fi film; it is it's own world, it's own look
with it's own sensibilites. Nightmarish and paranoia-inspiring at times, but
also filled with hope for rising above this dismal future (the sequels will
cover those stories!)I have the video and I admit that I sometimes watch it
for purely beefcake reasons (I am a naughty girl)and to look closely at the
cool clothes Carrie Ann Moss wears, but to overuse dead slang, this movie is
all that in black stretch-vinyl trench-coat with a small armory in the
lining!

******
15 September 2000
10

One of the most intriguing movies of the past few years, both visually and
thematically. This one had me recalling scenes and what ifs for days,
which
not many films do.I've been a fan of Fishburne's ever since I noticed his top notch
performance in Boyz N the Hood (1991). Here he is once again in excellent
form. Moss gives a startling performance of her own, while stepping back
in
favor of Fishburne here and there. With all she does, she could have
easily
passed for the ONE herself, but the script obviously intended otherwise.
Most of the rest of the inner-spaceship's crew get developed just enough
for
you to be surprised at who ultimately makes it and who doesn't. Reeves is
credible in his part whether it be in his knowledge or belief of the
Matrix
or in his relation and untrust of the rebels. Even his playing with the
Matrix comes across nicely and - surprise - fittingly. The bad guys are
like
a hibred of the Johnsons from the original Die Hard, the boys from MIB and
a
bit of Max Headroom - hilarious!The camerawork, CGIs and SFX are excellently done and choreographed and
the
plot with its different - at times almost confusing - levels is very well
brought across with just the right mix of fast-paced action and time left
to
explain and reflect upon the new and disturbing developments.Is reality real? Is it imagination? Is imagination preferable to reality?
Where do we practise escapism in real life? What is real life? Is it all a
matter of character? Of rebellious nature? Who are we rebelling against?
Is
the enemy inside?This film poses highly philosophic/religious questions on end and makes
Reeves out to be the - at first reluctant - saviour of humankind while
leaving a lot of other questions unanswered. While that answer of
'self-confidence will get you anywhere' definitely doesn't go conform with
biblical content (Neo/the One is an obviously intended parallel to the One
promised saviour of the Bible - Jesus Christ) Matrix remains nonetheless
an
excellent high-end Hollywood production worthy of all the laurels it has
already received for being just that.BTW: I cannot for the life of me imagine what Matrix 2 and 3 are going to
be
about. I considered the book closed with that spectacular
ending...

******
14 September 2000
10

The Matrix will undoubtedly be hailed as a truly classic movie for years to
come, reaching levels close to that of Star Wars. The two films (or sets of
films) are both packed with spiritual truth, accounting for their timeless
quality. It's the same reason we still love Shakespeare.When I first watched The Matrix something about the central ideas rang true
inside me, they really hit home and intrigued me. (I'm aware that many
people will read this and think I'm talking c**p but hear me out) in an
attempt to find out more I studied various belief systems concerning
'reality' and the implications of fully controlling one's perception of it,
eliminating doubt and fear, through pure belief in Self. The whole thing has
led me into an intense inner journey and a total reassesment of life and its
purpose. So Cheers to The Matrix for triggering the whole thing off.
Whenever I watch it now I discover something new.In addition to all of that, the film is utterly stunning as a piece of
visual entertainment. The fluid Woo-style violence is a pleasure to watch
and the close-shave action sequences staple you to your seat. I love the way
the first half of the film feeds you the theory and the second half treats
you to the practice. This movie went beyond thought-provoking - I left that
theatre a changed man.It may be dressed as a big, fat, money-hoarding, film studio product but the
Wachowski's are simply using that as an effective vehicle through which to
communicate this spiritual message to millions of people. Incredible.


******
14 September 2000
8

If you go into this film with no expectations then this film is visually
THE
BEST I'VE EVER SEEN. Keanu Reeves kicks butt bigtime.However the plot is a bit twisted, I wont spoil it for everyone, but the
matrix is a really creepy idea.Nevertheless, if when you go to the cinema you want to see "goodies"
beating
"baddies" this film won't disappoint. 

******
13 September 2000
9

===SPOILERS,READ ONLY IF YOU HAVE ALREADY SEEN THE MATRIX==
End scene. Our hero has just managed to get his secret love out of a
building with the ultimate evil in it. He is walking towards his only
possible exit point. In the doorway which divides the save ground from the
dangerous ground, he is shot by the ultimate evil. Instead of showing the
gruesome bullet penetration, we only see our hero's face and a flash of
light on the moment the shot is fired. Our hero, covered in blood, falls on
the floor and the audience fears a happy ending will be totally out of the
picture. But we are shown wrong, because our hero manages to terminate evil
in quite an explosive way... Is this the Matrix or Léon?????? Despite this flaw, this is indeed one of the most original and visually
devastating films ever. ****1/2(out of five)  

******
12 September 2000
10

This movie is awesome. Not once do you get bored... you just fly through
it,
and at the end you look back and say "WOW! This movie is sweet!" And then,
you never sleep for 5 nights because you are thinking about the Matrix...
and about what the Oracle said to Neo!I really believe this movie is the best sci-fi movie ever... better than
star wars for sure.

******
8 September 2000
10

But,if violence can be well-handled, this movie did it.  It won me over to
the genre.  I have since watched the Terminators and Lethal Weapons, etc.
This movie was such an extraordinary work it broke through years of
resistance!  I have watched it over and over - great storyline, great
storytelling, extraordinary special effects - perfect casting. All acting
was top-notch and Keanu Reeves was completely charismatic - something I had
never felt from him as an actor before.  I rate it 10/10.

******
7 September 2000
9

&#65279;
*MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS*When I popped in the rental store and finally decided to rent this movie, I
really didn't know
what to expect because I'm like, this is Keanu Reeves we're talking here. 
But as I was watching
the movie, I really began to enjoy it and once the movie ended, I said, "I
liked it."  But, I did
have some problems with the movie.For one, everything was made to be mysterious.  Why did everything have to
be a big mystery
and the sky blackened, and the thunder and lightning.  Fishburne almost
spoke in circles the
entire movie.  Neo would ask what is the matrix, and Morpheus would say
something like, "The
matrix is what the matrix is not."  And I'm like WHAT!?!?!?!?!??!  In my
opinion, all he had to
do was tell Neo, this is what the situation is, and we need  your help
because you are the one 
who has the power to change everything.  Instead, we the audience are forced
to sit through
dialogue of double talk and misdirected answers in an attempt to make Neo
think.  And what is
the story with the Oracle?  Were are in a computer, how is she able to make
predictions about the
real world inside a computer?Where did the humans get the equipment to make the vehicles that they
transported themselves
in?  They seemed awful high tech for people from the mind set of the
twentieth century to come
up with?During the shoot out scene, how is it that they were able to move so fast to
dodge bullets but
when the agents shoot at them, it suddenly seems to be a problem to dodge
them.  RE:  the scene
where Neo first dodges the Agents bullets and Trinity remarks on how he
moved so fast.  She
moved pretty fast to dodge all of those bullets and do a flip during the
SWAT Team shoot out
and at the beginning of the movie where she was able to run along the sides
of the walls.  And as
far as I'm concerned, the bullets in the gun of the SWAT Team members are
faster than the one
coming from the gun of the Agent.  And there are more bullets to dodge
because there are more
people shooting at you.And this question, I understand that since your mind is plugged into a
computer your liable go
brain dead if you are pulled out to quick.  I don't really buy it but I'll
go with it, but why is it that
if you get shot, you die, or if you fall off a building, you die?  If we
know that this is fake and
with our mind we can do some outrageous stuff like move faster than bullets
and jump over huge
gorges and bend objects at a thought, then why can't we just say, this isn't
real.  When I'm hit
with a bullet or with a car or I hit the ground from a one hundred story
drop, I should be able to
say this really didn't happen.  I'm Superman.  Where's my Kryptonite?  I
hardly felt that punch
by the Agent.And here is my final thought.  By the end of the movie Neo has reached his
full capacity.  So
why do we need sequels to the movie.  I can understand a second one to show
us getting out of
the matrix, but why a third one?  I don't know, maybe the have this all
planned out.  Maybe Neo
has what it takes but he isn't quite a Jedi yet.Now here is what I liked about the movie.The special effects were great and the fight sequences were outstanding. 
The way they had them
fight, I thought the actors really studied martial arts years and were
really fighting, except for the
obvious scenes when they would jump in the air and do kicks and when Keanu
would do the
back flips.  Those are what really kept me into the film, but that isn't
always enough.  In the case
of this movie though I think this was the exception where the special
effects is one of the things
that kept me into the movie, although I did like the basic storyline which I
think helped keep me
in the mood for the movie.I liked Carrie-Ann Moss' character and her interaction with Neo and I really
like Joe Pantoliano
in almost anything ever since I saw him in The Fugitive.  Larry Fishburne
was in great form as
usually.  I liked the interaction between Neo and Agent Smith and I got a
kick out of how slow
he spoke although sometimes it was over the top, but I loved it
anyway.In a nutshell, I liked the movie.  It had some elements to it that was kind
of like, what?  But at the
same time it had a decent storyline that most people sometimes wonder, what
is real and what
isn't and you can use your mind to accomplish anything type story.  It was
kind of like the movie
Dark City in the sense that one man will make a difference and stop the
unbeatable bad guy(s).  I
recommend watching this movie on a Saturday night with friends or if you
just want something
to watch by yourself when you order a pizza.  That's what I
do.

******
30 August 2000
10

The Matrix is truly a work of science fiction genius.  It is one of the
most best movies I have ever seen.  It makes you question everything that
you know and hold sacred while making you apparent to flaws of human
society.  Also with all the hidden things in the movie, all the
connotations
to other things, and all the biblical similarities it is a movie that one
can watch over and over again and even study.  I dont think I have watched
The Matrix once and not found something new.  It is just simply a
masterpiece and work of pure genius

******
29 August 2000
10

whoa. that's about it in a nutshell. the special fx are so
incredibly ahead of the times...and i'm amazed at what the
actors went through to portray their roles! i knew keanu had
a neck brace through most of the training in late '97, but
had no idea how many physical injuries actually happened.
and after seeing this movie so many times, i can only pick
up more and more of the abstract meanings behind it - or
maybe i'm reading to much in it...and props to the bros for
using chicago :). cannot wait for the sequels to film on
location - once again, i will be there, trying to get the best
view of mr. reeves. :)

******
29 August 2000
10

I loved this movie from the first time i saw it. Very nice music, and
mind-blowing special effects. Superb plot. Besides, it has Keanu Reeves in
it, which automatically makes it awesome. If the sequels are half as good
as
the original, I'll be first in line at the theater. I give it a 2-thumbs
up!

******
29 August 2000
10

I loved this movie from the first time i saw it. Very nice music, and
mind-blowing special effects. Superb plot. Besides, it has Keanu Reeves in
it, which automatically makes it awesome. If the sequels are half as good
as
the original, I'll be first in line at the theater.
My favorite parts were the kung fu scenes, and the government lobby.
I
wish I could dodge bullets and leap over buildings. Kinda makes you feel
inferior, doesn't it? I keep hoping that someday, I'll get a mysterious
email telling me to follow the white rabbit, where I'll be introduced into
the Real World.
It deserved every award it got. I was disappointed when Keanu Reeves
didn't get the Oscar for it! Oh well. I'll be cheering for it every step
of
the way. Did I mention that Keanu Reeves is my favorite
actor?
Great storyline. Excellent acting. Even better technical detail. The
movie flat-out rocks. 2 thumbs way, way up! 

******
27 August 2000
10

This film is a must watch for anyone interested in cyberpunk.  A movie that
gets live-action anime onto film.  Some of the best martial arts fights
ever.  And they are even more amazing when you know that the actors are
doing all the fighting themselves.  Go see this movie at all
costs.

******
15 August 2000
10

Thought provoking with fast paced martial arts action.  Every time I watch
this movie I find something new I hadn't seen before.  One of my favorite
movies.  At the end of this movie you'll either be thinking "Woah!" or
"What
the....?!"

******
14 August 2000
8

 This is a must for anybody. The Matrix works both as an action movie, but
also as a thinking man's movie. This is one of the best movies to combine
the two together. 
  The acting is incredible all around. Carrie Ann-Moss, Laurence Fishbourne,
and Joe Pantaliano are incredible. Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith is perfect as
the emotionless Government Agent trying to find Neo. This was also one of
the most underrated roles of 1999 and Hugo Weaving deserved some award for
his work. The only acting dissapointment is Keanu Reeves. If only he could
have worked at lowering his accent, he would have been better. The Wachowski Brothers wrote an incredible script with likeable characters,
especially Mouse, Trinity, Tank, and Switch. SPOILER The death's of Swithc
and Mouse are relatively sad due to the fact of likeable characters. END
SPOILER. So, if you have't seen this movie, go see it now. You will not be
dissapointed.

******
12 August 2000
10

There are so many reasons why I think "The Matrix" is the most brilliant
science fiction movie ever made but I like to present its philosophical
implications because that's what interested me most. Now, most people may
think that "The Matrix" is just a great science fiction movie with lots of
amazing special effects but there is more to it than that. As a person with
special interest in philosophy, I was amazed by the plot. It's like Plato's
theory of forms converted into a science fiction plot! Plato is one of the
greatest philosophers of all time from ancient Greece who theorized that the
world we live in is not real. Instead, it is a reflection of a real world
and all the objects we see are mere shadows of the ideal forms which exit in
that real world. I do not want to go into much detail for I think the
implication is obvious: The world we live in is "The Matrix" where nothing
is real; it is a computer-generated reality in which human minds are trapped
while our real brains are hooked up to a giant computer administering that
program to consume our energy. So everything we see is just a reflection of
the objects created in that program, electronic signals stimulating our
nerves to give us the impression that we are actually sensing material
objects. In fact we are just watching the shield put in front of our eyes to
prevent us from seeing the truth (just like in Plato's cave). Now this plot
is amazingly parallel with the most recent findings in physics; Bertrand
Russell explained it in a completely scientific way that we can never know
if the real world exists because all we sense is just electronic signals
stimulating our senses; we cannot know where these electronic signals are
coming from or if the source of these signals is a "material substance" in
the sense we think of the term. "The Matrix" suggests that these signals are
delivered to us by a computer. There have been many empiricist philosophers,
like George Berkeley and David Hume who denied the existence of the material
world but their methods of proving their theories were not as scientific as
the ones developed in the mid 1900s. "The Matrix" is a movie where
implications in these philosophical theories are presented in science
fiction which, I think, makes "The Matrix" so special. I sometimes think
that this world is not real and our real existence lies in another
dimension. I have friends who have the exact same feeling. Those of you who
have similar thoughts will find the science fictional interpretation of
their thoughts in "The Matrix". The fact that "The Matrix" is a computer-generated reality makes all the
visual effects, specially the fighting scenes, very plausible. Luckily, this
fact makes it possible to create any kind of visual effects without the risk
of making it look unrealistic (this is a computer program, anything can be
real).
"The Matrix" is definitely one of its kind; it is not like most other
science fiction movies where humans are against aliens. The screenplay is so
original that it makes it surpass all other science fiction movies except,
maybe my other science fiction favourite, "The Planet Of The Apes". I cannot
imagine a science fiction fan not liking this movie.                        
          

******
8 August 2000
10

This is one of the films everyone copies ,talks about and model and
compare themselves to !!!Every couple of years a movie come out that
catches
the imagination and attention of the public(STAR WARS,PULP FICTION
,TITANIC,ET,BRAVEHEART,JURASSIC PARK ETC,TERMINATOR 2,LION KING ,TOY STORY
ETC...)Though they might be in different genres but bring an original
concept and strike a chord with the audience! That is what The Matrix has
done!!It is a breathtaking ride into visual and groundbreaking new
territory, it has revolutionized and influenced a lot of new movies and
with
good reason!!It is a smart thinking man 's movie with smart characters and
brilliant action sequences that leave you stunned!! IT is movie you must
see
on a big screen to catch the full effect with a kick@ss music score!! It
is
a cool sleak movie with John Wooish flair and visual "eyecandy"
photography!! I personally enjoy stylish all out action movies or smart
well written movies with heavy character developement and an intriguing
storyline that maintain your interest and challenge your mind!!
Unfortunately you very rarely find them both in the same film!! That is
why
I found this movie so entertaining it delivered on both counts
,brilliantly
acted by everyone even Keanu ( yeah Keanu who would have thought totally
caught me off guard!!!!) Anyways this is a must see movie that exceeds all
the hype, most movies fall way short of their hype this one totally
surpasses it!!!!

******
8 August 2000
9

Technically "The Matrix" is a happy marriage of Hollywood and Hong Kong
movie techniques. The effects are wonderful and successfully makes a total
impact of amazement: it conquers the audience taking into a compelling
imaginative world. You really feel that your sense of reality is forced.On the other hand, just in accordance with the polysemy of the word
"Matrix", the script is open to multiple decoding. Personally I think that
there is a great examination of religious ideas and mythology behind the
script. I regard "The Matrix" as a postmodern expression of the new
millennial messianism in a mixture of Hong Kong movie technique, Hollywood
presentation, perfect cast and acting, and Jewish Kabbala...Hey these
snobbish words dont mean a criticism. My vote for The Matrix: Simply one
of
the best sci-fi ever...

******
6 August 2000
9

To start of there is one thing I can say about this movie,FABULOUS.
This is the kind of movie that digs deep, very deep in to our
own existence, to make you believe how fragile our reality
actually is, and this for a science-fiction movie, chapeau.
2001 a space oddesey  had similar fundamental moral
lessons about life but this movie combines that with an
ultimate cinematografic experience!
The switch between Green and Blue layers to make it easy
on the viewers to tell the difference between fiction and
reality are a nice touch.
The combined slow-mo and highspeed frame scenes are
a pleasure for the eye.
Hugo Weaving does an excellent job as agent Smith, great
moves from Keanu Reeves as Neo and Mr. Cool himself
Laurence Fishburn as Morpheus.
There is 1 thing left to say for me, can't wait to see the
sequel's.

******
5 August 2000
8

ULTRA COOL ACTION through the movie. Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne are
good, good plot.Great action, ok actors, very good special effects...hellofa
movie! 8.75/10 and not a point more! This movie is good but not great.
EVERYONE should see it atleast once! I really wait for
sequels.

******
5 August 2000
8

I saw this in theaters when it came out, and it was what I expected: a
movie
with lots of special effects-enhanced gunplay and exploding things. A lot
of
people have dismissed it as not being sufficiently serious sci fi, or
lacking character development. I'm suprised anyone expected either. If you
haven't seen the movie, prepare for nonstop eye candy, stylish violence,
and
a fair amount of humor. Whether or not that's enough is personal
preference.
Personally, I was entertained enough to have watched it a few times
since.

******
4 August 2000
9

The Matrix is just a very cool movie!
The acting is very good,
the special effects are really cool and
the actors are very cool!

******
3 August 2000
10

I've seen It, and I'm sure that you have seen it to...What can I say...?
This must be one of the coolest and greatest movies ever
created.It's got everything, it's exciting and there are Hackers involved... This
movie really made my day!!!

******
1 August 2000
10

This movie is the thinking man's action movie. In the theater I saw it,
there were no thinking men and everyone liked the action scenes but the plot
confused them. I was not confused. Stylistically, the movie has a lot going for it. It remind me of several
others favorites of mine, including Mimic and several dystopian
films.W

******
29 July 2000
9

I was doubtful of another science fiction movie staring Keanu Reeves, his
efforts have ranged from bad to yuck!!! So I did not see this movie in the
theatre but later a friend of mine with a theatre system put it is and I was
blown away, the Matrix is the best action movie ever, not only is the action
kick ass but the Matrix makes you think about the world around
you.
The Matrix also have two things in it that very few Hollywood movies ever
have a strong black lead and a strong female lead that is not weak and
helpless.
This movie is a classic and for those of you that don't like it you are
going to have to put up with a matrix 2 and 3 so get ready for more
action.
Lets hope the brothers make them as good as the first.


******
29 July 2000
9

The first time I saw The Matrix I was bored out of my life. But recently it
was advertised on cable and I couldn't help having another look. I was
absolutely breathtaken! I think this film has to be seen twice to be liked,
because now I agree with those who say The Matrix is one of the best science
fiction films of the century! It is smart, engaging, fun, action-packed and
thrilling entertainment that impressed the living daylights out of
me.The Matrix is a movie you just can't miss, so anyone who hasn't seen The
Matrix, see it now!Rating: 9

******
27 July 2000
10

i love keanu reeves,and laurence fishbourne. i like the whole idea,the
action scenes the music(marilyn manson's and rage against the machine,and
prodigy,rob zombie....).it's a great combination.the special effects are
cool too(remember neo dodging the bullets?) anyway the movie is
cool.

******
23 July 2000
9

When I first read my norwegian newspaper about the popular
movie about "the reality that's pulled over our eyes" i've
got interested, also because i'm interested in the paranormal
and of course computers.I went to the theater, sat down and the movie started.
After about 30 minutes I realised; this wasn't just an
ordinary action movie, it was much, much more.I've got this "Deja Vu" when i watched that movie.
The thought of me thinking exactly the same as the
writers of the movie did.The action scenes,the fighting scenes,the breathtaking
effects,the taglines, everything about this movie was
extremly well made.But, on the technical side, I just hate one mistake that
was
shoot in the film.
Tha's the scene when Neo and Mr Smith is fighting in the subway rails, when
Neo jumps from the rails, and up to the higher floor level.It was easy to
see the cables he hangs/and holds
himself from.But that the only thing that I dislike with this movie.
And I have no doubt when I say, this is the best movie i've ever seen.And
therefor I bought the DVD version,the VHS version
and a VideoCD version, just to have it in a long time.Brilliant!

******
21 July 2000
10

This was such an awesome movie. It's what first got me into Keanu Reeves. He
is such a cool actor. I don't know what else to say except that this is an
excellent movie. To know how great it is, you have to just see it for
yourself. Here, take a cookie! And remember, there is no spoon.

******
19 July 2000
10

 In my opinion this amazing movie is the best action movie in '99 and maybe
more. It has interesting good script and I think it should be nominalized at
Oscar for the script. The ideea of this movie is amazing and original. I was
so happy when I heared that it took four oscars ! Keanu Reeves play very
good just like the other actors. I am so glad that they will make another
Matrix. I hope it will take some other Oscars !

******
16 July 2000
10

Excellent movie. While certainly not a Christian movie, it has many
Christian parallels.The whole concept of "The Matrix" applies aptly to our time. Our "matrix"
is
created by the major news media, Hollywood, the government, etc. They all
tell us what to believe and they all lie to us with relative impunity. Only
a few of us know the truth.I eagerly await the sequels and highly recommend this fast-moving movie to
all.

******
14 July 2000
10

This movie is fantastic!
fabulous special effects and an unbelievable story. With that great
acting. I
had to watch this movie twice to fully understand it. it just left me
speechless.
my rate: 10 

******
12 July 2000
10

The first time I saw The Matrix, I thought, this movie sucks! But a few
months ago I took another look, and I loved it. It is certainly one of the
best films of last year, it takes sci-fi and action a place where no other
film has gone before. I actually hate science fiction films, but this one
had we enthralled, intrigued, entertained and amazed. This movie is one of
the best science fiction films this CENTURY has seen. I recommend you see The Matrix, it will entertain you and I don't think you
will ever see the world quite the same again. Free your mind, with this
incredible movie.

******
12 July 2000
10

The first time I saw The Matrix, I thought, this movie sucks! But a few
months ago I took another look, and I loved it. It is certainly one of the
best films of last year, it takes sci-fi and action a place where no other
film has gone before. I actually hate science fiction films, but this one
had we enthralled, intrigued, entertained and amazed. This movie is one of
the best science fiction films this CENTURY has seen. I recommend you see The Matrix, it will entertain you and I don't think you
will ever see the world quite the same again. Free your mind, with this
incredible movie.

******
12 July 2000
10

Absoultly fabulous movie.  It seriously makes you think about your world and
who you are.  The most chilling thing about the movie to me, is that I've
been thinking of a concept like this since i learned what dreaming is.  I've
always had an idea or a feeling that we aren't who we think we are.  Maybe
we are just somebody's dream world  and we know it but we don't want to
become reality.  Who is really watcing over us.  As for neo's idea of fate I
have my own spin on it.  neo Belives that there is no fate, because he
doesn't like the idea of his entire life being planned out for him and he
has no control.  My idea of fate, is that there is one made for you but you
can choose to take the path and be a good little pawn or you can take the
other path and  see how far you can run befor there is a new fate made for
you.  Personally me,  I'm running the life out of me and that's why i don't
run in PE class.  I need to get away from fate, befor fate gets to
me.

******
11 July 2000
10

It's difficult to add anything of substance to what people have written
here
about "The Matrix", except to say that we might now have to view Science
Fiction movies in a post-"Matrix" context - The Wachowski Brothers' film
changed the cinematic playing field forever.After seeing "The Matrix" (And spiritually similar films like "Three Kings"
and "Fight Club", which do wonderfully subversive things with their chosen
genre), I was filled with a sense of possibilities for the future of cinema
in the 21st century.  "The Matrix 2" can't arrive in cinemas quickly
enough.As far as Keanu Reeves' much-derided acting is concerned, I believe that
people are being too hard on him - He has a welcome bravery and lack of
cynicism, taking far more chances in the role of Neo than his peers would.
He's not afraid to embody an irony-free innocence and to play the whole
film's journey towards discovery and identity with great honesty - In
essence, he's being true to the Wachowski's material.The rest of the cast are fantastic - Fishburne is a total Zen master,
Carrie-Anne Moss a goddess and the great Joe Pantoliano gets another
welcome
chance to shine.Quite simply, "The Matrix" takes you to a completely different world for
two
hours and that's kind of the reason that I go to the cinema for - To see
something new and exhilarating, which this film certainly
is.

******
7 July 2000
10

Have you noticed over the past decade or so a lot of American films have
been trying to capture that Hong Kong feeling but rarely succeed? Why do
most of them suck so bad? Could it be the crappy stories? No, HK films
have
plenty of those (sorry Mr. Woo). I think it's the American's inability to
totally go for broke in the action scenes. The Matrix could have been made
without a huge gun battle at the end, but what fun would that be? That was
just the iceing on the cake (the cake being the terrific story cooked up
by
the Wachowski bros).Okay, buy now we all know what an amazing film The Matrix is, so let me
sprinkle a few of my thoughts about it here. Let's start with Keanu. In
one
of the most interesting reviews I read in praise of this film, someone
dissected why Keanu Reeves was the perfect choice to star in this film.
Now,
if you're like me, you're not a huge Keanu Reeves fan. Matter of fact,
before seeing it my opinion of the Matrix was, "Looks cool. Too bad it's
starring Keanu". Well, he didn't bother a bit, in fact I rather enjoyed
his
performance in it. Before seeing it, the opinion of a wide variety of
people
was "I do not buy Keanu Reeves as an action hero". Well, that's exactly
why
he works. Walking in to the movie we don't believe he could be the chosen
one of anything. Gradually, he starts to win us over and by the end, even
the hard core Keanu haters are cheering him on. Why? Because he doesn't
believe he's the chosen one either. We don't buy it and neither does his
character, Neo (anagram, anyone?), Which makes his transformation at the
end
all the more powerful. Making him just right for this movie.Now, a word to critics who disliked the film because it "degenerated" into
a
mindless shoot-em-up in the last half hour. Some saw this film as a
thought
provoking science fiction movie on par with Dark City and Blade Runner
that
lost its brains in the third act. Let's clarify something. THIS IS AN
ACTION
MOVIE. That is what this movie is, it just confuses some people because it
actually has a story (a first for most summer action movie fans). How can
we
beg for summer action blockbusters that actually have a plot, and then
chastise it when it finally comes along? Is that fair? Instead of thinking
of it as a smart Sci-fi with unnecessary action scenes, think of it as an
action film with a smart story. It's just that easy.And lastly, it needs to be pointed out that the Matrix is a total rip-off
of
Grant Morrison's The Invisibles comic book. I know, you're thinking,
"Well,
everything is ripped off of something and you can probably trace all
stories
back to the Holy Bible in some form or another". Well, that what I thought
until I actually saw the book myself. To sum up the book as Grant himself
did once, The Invisibles is the story of a group of people dressed in
leather led by a bald guy in sunglasses that's trying to make humanity see
that the world they know is not the real world, all the while being hunted
by a group of inhuman "agents" who don't want this to happen. Eerie
coincidences, eh? No, not really. The Wachowskis are former comic writers
themselves (I even have a few of the Hellraiser stories one of them did).
They frequently collaborate with comic artists, recently on The Matrix web
site and in the comic book handed out at the Matrix screenings ('till it
got
pulled), and some top comic artists designed machines used in the movie
and
did story boards for the film. Oh, and Warner Bros owns DC Comics,
publisher
of Grant's Invisibles comic. I smell a conspiracy, Agent Mulder. Because
of
the Matrix, Grant will never get an Invisibles movie made without
comparisons being made to the Matrix, and his movie would be seen as a rip
off of Matrix, instead of the other way around. Grant himself admits that
he
loves the movie, but I think he's through with DC saying something to the
effect of, "I won't be used as cheap source of ideas for Warner Bros
movies". He still hasn't received any aknowldgement for his part, and of
coarse he hasn't recieved any money from it. It's a shame, really. Would
Grant's Invisibles have made as good a film as the Matrix? I doubt it, but
it would have been nice to see.That said, I loved this movie. Can't wait for the sequel(s?). 10/10 stars.
G'night!


******
6 July 2000
10

The Matrix has got to be the best Sci-Fi/Fantasy movie that I've seen in a
long time. The special effects are the greatest, the acting is very good,
and the props? Well, I want Morpheus' sunglasses and that cell phone
(which
I heard they're actually making). The ju-jitzu and kung-fu is awesome! The
soundtrack is pretty damn good, too! The only thing is that Keanu Reeves
isn't the greatest actor in the world (but, then who is?). I have to
admit,
though, his acting in The Matrix was ok. I have one question, though. How
did Cypher get into the Matrix to talk to the agent without anyone
noticing?
Well, if I knew then the movie wouldn't be so great, right?

******
6 July 2000
10

It' could be a much better film . The idea it's arquetipical , powerful,
the music is exceptional , there have been a lot of inspiration on this
film, ... but .. the directors made a mediocre work ,Keanu Reeves it's not
an actor ( but this time the "force" has been with him).IT COULD BE A MUCH BETTER FILM , BUT COMPARED WITH THE HOLLYWOOD
PRODUCTION
IT'S THE BEST .I voted 10 for this film .P.D: This film suggest WHAT it's NOT REAL ,but ...... don't say nothing
about WHAT IT'S REAL !.Negate the existence it's a typical satanic idea .... .Superate this existence it's a religious fact.

******
5 July 2000
10

BEST PICTURE NOMINEE would have been giving the Matrix full credit for its
great storyline. Keanu did a great job and no one else could have done as
good of a job as he had.  I work for a video store and most people love the
movie as much as I do.  The entire concept, everything about the movie was
great.  The effects, everything.  Bring on the sequels, I just hope they can
live up to the first one's huge standards.  

******
3 July 2000
10

Yeah well u probably know that this is a great movie.
i mean if u dont know anything about this movie then u like need to get
out
more.
But anyways this tells the story of the "one". The one that will save all
of
humanity and that pretty much sets the pace for THE best action scenes
ever
done for a movie.
I mean these action scenes are done so well that it is overwhelming and i
have to say that this movie is the "one". The one that will tell how other
movies should be done whether it is an action movie or a thriller or
anything
else.
I'd rate this a 10/10.


******
2 July 2000
8

Great movie! I went to see it thinking that, like some recent movies, I
would only see good special effects. I was wrong. Matrix has, more than
nothing, an incredible sci-fi plot. It may seem kind of bizarre but, at the
end, everything has sense. I am sure this film will set a "before and
after"
in sci-fi movies.

******
2 July 2000
10

The Matrix is not just merely a movie but more of an awe-inspiring
audio-visual experience that has to be seen to be believed.
It focuses on the character of Thomas Anderson (played by Keanu Reeves, in
his best role since Speed) who begins to question the nature of the world
around him, thus leading him to a mysterious figure named Morpheus, who
holds the answer to the question: "What is the Matrix?".
Boasting mind-boggling special effects, some of the most adrenaline-pumping
action sequences ever committed to film and an ingenious storyline, The
Matrix is arguably one of the best Science Fiction movies ever made. It
stands up to multiple viewings, and has to be seen at least a second time
to
be fully appreciated. Strong support from an excellent cast- most notably
Laurence Fishbourne as Morpheus further add to the quality of this modern
classic. Millions of fans around the world now await the coming Matrix
sequels with great anticipation...

******
30 June 2000
9

'The Matrix' is of course a very good Science Fiction Movie and along with
'American Beauty', 'Fight Club' and 'The Sixth Sense' one of the best of
'99, but I can't believe that this movie got into the top 50. I can't
believe that a movie classic like 'Apocalypse Now' is behind The Matrix.Many people say that this movie is realistic and everything in it could be
true, but I think they all forgot the oracle, the fact that there's THE ONE
and the shootout at the end. I mean in the shootout they don't do many
special moves to hide from the bullets, but they just don't get shot.
Whatever, the action sequence would have been much better if M. Manson's
'Rock Is Dead' played in the background.
I hope the sequels or prequels don't go on like the first one ended, because
I think that would suck.
But if they hold on to a good story, like the first hour of this movie was,
we can look forward to a great competition between the 2nd Star Wars and the
2nd Matrix.I rated this movie 9 out of 10

******
28 June 2000
10

I worked 4 1/2 years in a video store and saw an amazing number of movies
and the Matrix is the movie in it's genre that I'll never get tired of
watching. All the elements are there, the action scenes, the plot, the
amazing soundtrack, the special effects, the chemestry of the cast... I
could go on and on and on. Simply a master piece, instant classic in my
book.

******
28 June 2000
10

in one word i can describe this movie: AWESOME!
loved the story line, the music and the concept was great! Keanu did a
great
job, Laurence was superb. special effects - unbelievable! I would give
this
movie a solid two thumbs up! I normally don't think much of Keanu's acting
ability, but he was perfect for this role as Neo. A great movie all
around!


******
27 June 2000
10

I really loved "The Matrix". It was one of the best action sequences that
I
never seen for a long time. I really loved the last 40 minutes of that
film,
it had a lot of action includes a cool/ awesome roof scene. I am expecting
the second and third one would be better than original.

******
22 June 2000
10

The Matrix is one of them films that you can watch over and over again but
the first time is always the best. When i first watched this at the cinema
i
was amazed at the fight scenes and how they were so brilliantly
choreographed. The Matrix is a mindblowing film full of spectacular
special
effects that can only be best watched on DVD or at the cinema. It is a
must
see film for everyone whether they like sci-fi films or
not.The reason why the matrix is such a fantastic film is not just the action
with its special effects but also the brilliant casting. Keanu Reeves is
amazing as Neo, this is probably his best film by far. Carrie Ann Moss is
also incredible as Trinity and Laurence Fishburne is outstanding as the
most
dangerous man alive, Morphius. Without them it would not make the film as
popular as it is. If you have not seen this yet you are in for a treat as
you will be blown away. Make sure you see it i highly recommend it. 10 out
of 10.  

******
20 June 2000
10

What else is there to say ... seen it five times ... I expect I shall see
it
many more before I'm done.A warning for those who for whatever reason haven't seen it before ... pay
attention in the beginning as the concepts are explained, the confusing
bits
at the end will become much clearer. Better yet ... see it
twice.

******
15 June 2000
10

I loved this film. I think I can watch it every week. No. Everyday. It's
great. The plot is rather ordinary, but the MOVIE is just splendid.
Effects
- there were lot of words here about that. I enjoyed the soundtrack. I
chose
rob d "clubbed to death" for my exam at model studio, and got excellent
mark
by the way:-)))
Then. "There's no spoon". I tell it to myself and to my friends before any
kind of crazy action. And it WORKS!!! No spoon - no fear!
8-))))At last, about Keanu Reeves. Really cute:))) I've noticed one thing - as
he
gets older he looks better!
So... Kisses and hugs from Russia!!!

******
15 June 2000
9

The Matrix had very visually compelling effects all thoughout this film.
The Matrix goes from one world to another. From the year 1999, beyond and
to
other worlds of reality, but yet real.Keanu Reeves(Neo), Lauance Fisbone(Morphis), and Carrie Ann Moss(Trinity)
did all outstanding jobs as the action preformers thoughout this film.Though it had the best visual effects and great actors/actresses, I saw no
story put into it.  There was a story, but a small one.  Not enough for me
to see.But still, I recommend this film to teenagers and adults.  Kids too, but
yet
there's quite a bit of violance (not much gore).  If your looking for a
good
action-scifi thriller, this is the perfect film.

******
13 June 2000
10

OK this movie is awesome.  You will have to watch it about 5 times to
totally "get" every nook and cranny of the movie.  With a really good
story
line and awesome effects this movie has to be my favorite of all in the
Sci-Fi category.  Even over the Star Wars episodes.  I give it a 10!!!!


******
11 June 2000
10

The Wachowski bros have truly excelled in this brilliant film. The direction
and special effects are incredible but don't take away from the plot or the
acting which is so often the case with this kind of film. All aspects of the
film come together so well, the frightening plot, the awesome special
effects, the insightful direction, the great acting and the gripping
script.Lawrence Fishburne is perfectly cast as the wise leader Morpheus, his
character is always cool and delivers some very memorable quotes ("Fate it
seems, is not without a sense of irony.") perfectly, every one of his
movements is planned and deliberate.Keanu Reeves proves that he still has some acting ability in his portrayal
of Mr. Anderson, Neo. Being totally out of his depth for the first half of
the movie and then turning into the one who can do it all was very well
done.The Agents also deserve praise for their roles. Hugo Weaving could not have
done better, everything from the monotone voice to the constant menacing
glare was bone chilling. By the end of the film you can really see how much
he hates being in the matrix, being a sheperd to the more primitive
prisoners.From the sunglasses to the boots, the costumes for each and every character
suit the film to a tea. And the sets compliment everything, the interior of
the Nebuchadnezzar especially.Overall a brilliant film that is a must see. One of the few I've given a
10/10.

******
11 June 2000
10

The Matrix is just a totally CLASSIC film. The special effects are epic
enough to put this film into the history books. It's the fact that there's
actually a BRILLIANT story behind it too that makes me feel like this film
is really going to be looked on as a classic years from now. This film is
LOADED with symbolism and imagery and philosophy and sheer brilliance. This
film is WAY ahead of its time. And THIS one was on the first chapter in
what's got potential to be THE new great trilogy of our time. It's gonna be
OUR Star Wars people!!!  Check it owwwwwttt!!!

******
11 June 2000
10

I must say that it deserves to be the movie of the year 1999, cause it has
all kind of computer action, and specially the bullet dodging scene of
Keanu
Reeves was really awesome. It's got a cool soundtrack, with actors more
awesome. Although it's got a mysteriouse kind of an unbelieving story, but
when you watch it, you feel like you are in thje movie in reality. i must
advice the people who havent watched it , must see it, cause i've gotm it
in
my movie collection.

******
9 June 2000
8

I think I know the reason why so many people liked so much The Matrix. It
brought science fiction to the masses. I mean real science fiction, not
ID4
or whatever. The regular movie goer does not have a mind open enough for
the
possibilities and unconventional thinking that science fiction provokes.
But
if it is dressed up with cool special effects and wardrobe and the plot is
naive and well explained enough to be understood by all, then everyone
will
think that the movie has changed the way they think about the world, and
all
that nonsense. That's about all I have to say about The
Matrix.

******
6 June 2000
10

Most of the reviews have already told you the basics; great special effects
and stunts, intriguing plot, plenty of action.  All true.  However, let me
weigh in with this.  Every great action movie needs a great villain.  The
Matrix gives us the greatest villain since Die Hard's Hans Gruber -- Agent
Smith.  Here is an enemy you can love to hate and yet he is so interesting
you really enjoy his scenes.  His monologues will make you want to see this
movie again and again just as much as the special effects.

******
6 June 2000
9

I never got into special effects movies, but this one changed my mind.  This
is the coolest movie I have ever seen!  The action sequences were amazing.
The effects did not take on that truly fake quality, and it made you think.
I Loved every second of it. Impressive.

******
4 June 2000
9

Now, I'm not a big sci-fi film fanatic(I don't even like Star Wars that
much!), but this film is probably the best sci-fi film I've seen for a long,
LONG, time. The things that I've been most impressed about this film is not
the bullet speed camera trickery, or the martial arts imitations or any kind
of technical merit it deserved the oscars for. I mean they were great, but
as technology advances, they are bound to get better, and we'll soon find
more things to go 'whoa' at. The things that I was most impressed with was
the quasi-biblical quasi-starwars storyline, the ensemble acting.Keanu Reeves looked COOL, and fortunately left the bigger dialogues to Larry
Fishbreath (with his turn as the Obi-Wanesque Morpheus) and Hugo Weaving
(with his cool authoritarian accent). The other actors giving great support
are Gloria Forster as the Oracle (Yoda?), Carrie-Anne Moss as the love
interest and Joe Pantoliano as the Judas.The trouble with these kinds of films is that you come out of the picture
not horrified by the machine-dominated world idea, but become rather fond of
such a situation, and the escapism that it provides. The apocalyptic world
is somewhat romanticied by the film.But who cares when it's so much fun? Sit back, relax, and enjoy the ride.Pure escapism!


******
3 June 2000
9

"The Matrix" came out on the worst of times: just weeks before the most
anticipated sci-fi film of all time was to come out: "The Phantom
Menace".Well the menace was definitely "a phantom", so to speak. And while hordes
of
gullible fans talked about how great Lucas' latest space opera was, many
more had discovered what they feared the most: that Matrix was everything
"Phantom" should have been, and then more.The film has so many high points is difficult to start. The visual effects
are simply stunning; there is no eye candy, ala Star Wars I; every single
one is used as a way to get you deeper into the movie. The "Bullet time"
technique is used throughout the picture, and it makes it seem as slick as
the best piece of japanimation out there. The storyline is perfectly
written: it manages to convince you that somehow it could all be possible.
Neo/Thomas Anderson (Keanu Reeves) tells the whole story with his facial
expressions of disbelief on the first 3/4 of the film, and then with self
assurance. The rest of the cast makes you actually care for their fate
(specially Carrie-Ann Moss and Lawrence Fishborne). And before the first
half of the movie is over, you will hate the bad guys. Believe
me.I, as incredible as it might seem, am not waiting for "Matrix 2". The first
installment is so good I fear they won't be able to live up to its
reputation (again, like Lucas did with "Phantom Menace"). Still, I am
crossing my fingers and hoping I will be surprised and mesmerized.
Again.

******
3 June 2000
10

If you haven't seen this movie then you are missing a lot!! When I saw
this
movie the words that popped out of my mouth after the movie was "WoW...."
When you think about the Matrix you think it will just be another science
fiction movie with cool effects and thats all. But boy are you wrong! Sure
this movie does have great special effects. It also has a great
plotline.
It really makes you think about the world. If that really is going to
happen in the future or not. The movie is about a man named Neo who is
brilliantly played by Keanu Reeves, who is trying to figure out what is
The
Matrix. The movie's big question is to either take the blue pill or the
red
pill. You'll find more about that if you watch the movie. All I have to
say
is that it definately leaves you thinking. 

******
2 June 2000
10

I can't remember the last movie that I saw in the theatre seven times. I
just couldn't get enough of The Matrix. Still can't (I just caught it again
on cable). It's got everything: cool sci-fi techo storyline, a love story,
lots of slam-bang action scenes, great martial arts, wonderful actors,
visuals to die for, fabulous Chicago brothers who directed...In short,
everything you could ask for in a movie.But the best thing, for me, is how spiritual the movie really is. I'll never
forget sitting in a huge packed theatre, with the entire audience SILENT,
struggling to get the concepts being thrown at them between high kicks.
There is a reason why this movie kicked Phantom Menace's butt at the Academy
Awards this year. And it's not just because of the amazing visuals. It's
because the STORY of The Matrix was everything we used to go to Star Wars
for: the good guys winning, the connection with the Force, it's all there,
and in a very 90s/new millennium way.God, I just LOVED this movie! See it, if you haven't already.

******
1 June 2000
10

The Matrix takes us on a journey that would probably be considered one of
the most original,exciting sci-fi action films to smash it's way into
theaters since Blade Runner which I consider a cult sci-fi classic.We are
never given any dissapointment or never bored.The entire film is a nonstop
rocket which we are tied up on that never stops,and that's only the first
twenty minutes.Then it keeps getting better.Keanu Reeves is Neo.A man who
learns what reality really is.Laurence Fishburne delivers a great
performance as Morpheous and Hugo Weaving makes one hell of a villain.Let's
not forget Carrie Ann Moss who can kick butt with the best of them.The
Matrix is the kind of movie that reminds us one thing:HAVE A GOOD TIME.With
time going past us,we don't know when our time will be up.The Matrix is that
movie that gives sci-fi fans a great time.I enjoyed this film and I think it
will always be remembered as one of the best.Word has it that JET LI might
be in The Matrix2.THE MATRIX RULES!!!!!!!

******
31 May 2000
10

gen· ius:
Extraordinary intellectual and/or creative power.
(Dictionary definition)This film is cinematic genius.An amazing plot combined with super special effects never before seen in
the
cinema make this movie a modern work of art and one of the best movies of
all time.The depth of the characters in this movies is more than meets the eye -
besides the characters themselves, each one excellently performed, the
names
and the general plot suggest mythological characters, some with a role
similar to the roles of those in the movie.The movie, technically speaking, is filmed to absolute perfection - after
watching this film over and over and over and over, i have not found one
single technical goof. Whatever video/computer techniques the makers of
the
movie used for the special effects is totally transparent to the watcher -
unlike older movies, where you could tell a computer or plastic doll or
whatever was being used, in this movie all you see is the real world (as
real as it gets in this movie...) and everything that happens (visually)
is
totally believable.The plot, although being a far out science fiction plot, is believable,
technologically speaking. The extremely scary thing is, though, were this
already true - most of us, just like in the movie - would have no way of
knowing that we were what we were...As for the movie itself - there is not one unnecessary second in the film.
Smooth, high action from beginning to end.The only movie that has ever gotten an 11 out of 10 rating from me, this
movie is one league above all other movies in it's genre, and is the next
level in sci-fi and special effects.If you have not seen this film, go do so NOW. I personally have not met
one
person that didn't say this film was excellent, to say the
least.11/10


******
31 May 2000
10

This is the most thought provoking and still exciting movie ever made!  So
much thought has gone into it's production that I find myself believing in
the Matrix.  It is so improbable, yet it could be true without us knowing!
Keanu Reeves at his best, with Laurence Fishburne & Carrie-Anne Moss both
giving excellent performances as Morpheus & Trinity.Well done to the Wachowski brothers!

******
30 May 2000
9

THE MATRIX is an masterful blend of Hong Kong-style Kung Fu, William
Gibsonesque cyberpunk, and hyperkinetic John Woo gunplay -- with a
generous
dash of the existentialist paranoia of Philip K. Dick and Franz Kafka just
to keep things interesting! THE MATRIX is the most compelling,
mind-bending,
and entertaining movie I've seen in years, one of the few films of the 90s
I've seen more than six times, each time revealing a deeper level of
complexity. The cast is pretty good (even professional wooden Indian Keanu
Reeves, who's actually -- and surprisingly -- above-average in this film),
the special effects are dazzling and beautiful, the direction is amazing
(a
synthesis of the best techniques of John Woo and James Cameron, it seems),
and the over-all look and design of the movie is attractive in a dark,
ominous kind of way (the world outside the matrix reminded me of something
H.R. Giger of
ALIEN fame might have designed).The film isn't flawless, however. In the interest of constructive
criticism
here are some of my pet peeves: dialogue which rarely transcends the
perfunctory, minimal character development, and Trinity's diminished (and
subordinate) role in the second and third acts, which was surprising to me
considering Bros. Wachowski's excellent treatment of female characters in
their debut film, BOUND (another excellent movie, IMHO).Bring on Matrix 2 and 3, Andy and Larry!3 1/2 out of 4 stars / 9 out of 10 / Thumbs Up ... Way
Up!

******
28 May 2000
9

I don't like science fiction that much, but I loved this movie.  It's the
kind of movie you either love or hate, and I loved it.  It was smart and
well thought out, a nice break from the stupid  and uncreative movies of
today.  It makes you think.

******
22 May 2000
10

I enjoy the movie, Special Effects, history, Concepts.
Its a new form to make movies.
It's a New Classic!
I love this movie


******
22 May 2000
8

I found this movie intriguing from the start.  Spectacular effects,
especially in fight scenes, and outstanding story line that kept me
thinking
about conversations I had in college about "one consciousness".  Not a ten
due to the over the top harvesting footage and I still find myself waiting
for an "Excellent" to be uttered by Reeves.

******
22 May 2000
10

A Philosopher who once thought that we were all just blobs being controlled
by someone or something else concluded that we really existed based upon
the
saying, "I think, therefore I am." Without trying to give away too much of
the plot of this fascinating philosophical script, The Matrix interprets
life, and the world of Thomas A. Anderson (Neo) not too differently.
Combined with great fight scenes and special effects, the Matrix will
stretch your imagination and set the table for the sequel (coming in 2001).
Even if you don't like sci-fi, see The Matrix for its philosophy; It all
begins when Mr. Anderson (Keanu Reeves) is asked by Morpheus (Lawrence
Fishburne) which pill he would like to take? One reveals the truth, the
other and he can return to his bed and continue to live his life. This was
first proposed to us by Plato, with the analogy of the cave. If you like
action, if you like effects, if you like sci-fi, or if you like philosophy,
see the Matrix.

******
21 May 2000
10

The Matrix is the greatest movie ever! If you haven't seen the movie yet,
and you like computers, technology, and science fiction, then BUY this
movie
today! Though at the moment this movie is science fiction, some of you
might
agree with me that it may not be in a few years! "I want guns, lots of
guns".The Matrix also has a huge amount of symbolism. The first few times you
watch it you may only notice some of it if any, but after lots of times of
watching it you'll start to notice more and more, but don't expect to ever
notice it all, for you never will.
I can't wait for 2 and 3 to come out! I hope they're as good or better than
this one! I wonder if Neo will ever succeed. I hope he does. NEO IS THE
ONE.
OF COURSE HE WILL SUCCEED.

******
20 May 2000
10

I am not a big Sci-fi fan but I was blown away when I seen this film. I just
hope when they make parts 2 and 3 they can make it just as great! Keanu
Reeves doesn't make a lot of movies (Smart move on turning down Speed 2) but
when he does they are really good! The one thing I couldn't stop thinking of
was how much more I liked the special effects in The Matrix then Star Wars
episode 1. 

******
19 May 2000
10

The Matrix is a movie of utter brilliance. The storyline hits you like a
blow to the head... could this world ever form into reality, a real eye
opener. The Wachowski brothers with the aid of phenomenal visual effects
create a movie which will revolutionize the sci-fi movie industry, a must
see movie!Laurence Fishburne(Morpheus) plays his character to a tee. The cool,
aggressive and serious leader of the resistance has us at one moment at a
sense of ease, the next, a rush of sheer fast flowing adrenaline streams our
bodies.


******
17 May 2000
8

What is the Matrix? A top-notch, balls to the wall, ingenious, visually
expansive and stunning, exquisitely crafted hard sci-fi film that also
happens to be exceptionally well made and very entertaining. Questions about
Keanu's acting chops aside, The Matrix is jammed with effects,
well-choreographed fight sequences, and some amazing acrobatics by Reeves,
Fishburne, and Moss. The plot is full of holes, naturally, and the dialogue
is typically lowbrow and terrible but who really cares? This is cerebral
popcorn at its most highly developed, a plate of eye candy lovingly
delivered with gasoline eyedrops.I liked it.Keanu plays Neo, a computer nerd whose life is turned upside down when he is
brought into the bizarre world of Trinity (Moss) and Morpheus (Fishburne).
He jumps into a classic mind-trip and has to sort out his situation. While
it would be very uncool to tell you what the Matrix is, understanding that
virtual worlds are involved helps immensely. Essentially, Keanu and crew can
bend their reality in one of the worlds but find themselves being chased by
computer-generated agents intent on keeping the secret of the Matrix intact
in the other.The power exhibited by the three main characters (Keanu, Lawrence, and
Carrie-Ann) is explosive and awe-inspiring. The trio of actors did most of
their own stunts and the results are striking. They trained for seven months
with martial arts experts and it absolutely pays off. With the addition of
some dead time cinematography and film speed tweakage, the fight scenes are
nothing short of beautiful.In fact, just about every inch of this flick could be framed and put on a
wall.The film does have a few faults though. You've got to decide whether the
lack of a well-constructed plot and sometimes silly dialogue will bother
you. Like Blade, this flick definitely chooses style over substance. Still,
it is light years ahead of some of Hollywood's normal drivel. There are
frequent moments when you start to poke holes in the plot but the filmmakers
quickly remedy that situation with another fight or effects scene. While the
film literally drips with Hong Kong-style wire acrobatics, it also has the
lovely all-encompassing darkness of Dark City.At the pub last night discussing this film with Gaz and Chen, we started
rattling off other action films that were nearly perfect: Die Hard, the
first Lethal Weapon, and much of Face/Off. While The Matrix is far from
perfect, it is certainly one of the more memorable flicks to come down the
action transom in years. 


******
16 May 2000
10

Excellent. One of my all time great films for watchability and
entertainment. I own this film on DVD, and can watch it at any time. With
most films, you have to wait until the memories subside before watching it
again, but with Matrix, I can watch it at any time, even back to back. In
fact, multiple viewings of this film should be compulsary. The first time is
excellent, but there are alot of subtle references during the film that
don't click until you've seen the whole film, so it is worth watching again
when you know exactly what is going on. 
The special effects are awesome, the fight scenes perfect, even Keanu puts
in a decent performance. Fishburne is excellent, as are the supporting cast.
Watch it many times, NOW! I only hope the two pending sequels don't ruin
this.

******
12 May 2000
9

after seeing this movie in the cinema and renting it on VHS, i own this
movie on DVD and now i watch whenever i want. The good thing about this
brilliant movie is that it gets better and better each time i see it! On
each viewing i discover new interesting details in the special effects and
the story. Sometimes i even put it on pause to glare at the special effects
shots, like when Neo wakes up in the real world. You should try do that too,
only then you can truly observe the visual excellence of these scenes. This
movie totally deserved the oscar for visual effects (sorry phantom menace!).
As Joel Silver said in an interview, this movie is ground-breaking, a film
that will be much imitated by others.

******
8 May 2000
10

Amazing and almost original movie (anybody saw Dark City)
The guns scenes were the best match to my favourite director John
Woo.
The Combat scenes were shot like the old Martial Arts movies.
The dramatical performance was moving.
And that space/time stoppage while dodging bullets KICKED BUTT!
:POverall, this movie shows that America still has hope for movies that can
use the best elements to put together a film. I hope to see more Wachoski
Bros.P.S. (Try a Mexican standoff two guys shooting and dodging scene, that'll
kick!)


******
3 May 2000
10

Where shall I begin? Great acting? Great Special Effects? Great story? This
movie is to good to be true! I never expected it to be so good. I have seen
it 10 times, but I still enjoy it, like seeing it for the first time. Every
actor in perfectly cast for his/her role. I really liked Carrie Ann-Moss
(Trinity), because she is so cool en relaxed during the movie. Everyone has
said it, but the special effects are the best I have ever seen.I don't think it's a good idea to make sequels to this movie. They can never
be so good or original as this one. But we have all to wait and see.If you haven't seen this movie, go rent or buy it now!!!

******
1 May 2000
10

the amazing special effects and the wonderful acting of the cast was
unbelievable. truly, this is one of the movies that i will never forget.
such remarkable scenes, not to mention the clear story line and
dialogue.there were so many things unexplainable, but like in the movie, being the
one is like being in love. you don't know it, but you feel it. i don't know
how to describe such an amazing movie, but i feel the impact it has affected
me.what is reality? what is the dream world? work with your mind. you will soon
find it.

******
29 April 2000
9

I almost did not see this film because of the preview with Keanu Reeves
saying 'Woah'.  I am thankful that I watched it anyway.  Andy and Larry
Wachowski did a superb job both writing and directing this sci-fi (or is
it?) actioner.  The cast was terrific, including Keanu Reeves.  They brought
the story bleakly, almost painfully to life.  My hack and slash buddies were
impressed with the hardware and fire power.  I thought the costumes were
outstanding.  The editing was slick and seamless and the special effects
were the star of the show.  Grade A (9)

******
29 April 2000
10

Okay, I'm not going to say too much on this movie because most people
already said what I'm about to say. The Matrix is one truly AMAZING movie!!
It's really clever because it CAN be possible (although, it is only a
movie...) I mean, how do you know if what you see, touch, feel or smell is
real or not? Very few times have I been in love with a movie when I only saw
it on video, but in this case, yes. Not to mention I nearly killed myself
for not seeing it on the big screen, or at least rent it earlier....What I didn't know is, The Matrix is a great action/sci-fi(and I thought I
hated this genre) , with great casts and visual FX and so on. I guess it's
the poster that really turned me off. Keanu Reeves is quite good as (cute,
except when he's hairless)  Neo, and Carrie-Anne Moss is equally good,
providing she doesn't have as much experience and not very well-known. She
was great as Trinity, and I think she really should be given more credit
than just "Keanu Reeves' co-star" !The Matrix is unique in it's way. It has violence but we don't see more than
10mls of blood. Instead, we only see a lot of bullets. Personally I think
the scene where Tank loads thousands of guns is pretty cool, but the lobby
scene is a bit excessive, and the kiss scene is really weird( how come Neo
can be resurrected after he's dead in the REAL world?? )but overall this is
pretty good...every time you see it. It just lingers in your head for ages
after you've seen it. So, if you are still wondering what The Matrix is,
RENT THE VIDEO! You won't regret it, even if you think you might hate
it...at least you'll know what the fuss is all about. Then you'll decide for
yourself if The Matrix deserves #30 in the world's best movies."Unfortunately, no-one can be told what the Matrix is. You have to see it
for yourself."

******
29 April 2000
10

Well, being a sci-fi fan this was bound to pleaseIt did more, it spellbound to the extreme where you actually want to
question the reality.I first saw this in the cinema, and WOW was the only thing to say, it's
black and bleak look at mans self destruction, only to become a battery for
machines.Keanu Reeves plays what has to be his best role to date as Neo/Anderson,
the
naive choosen one.  Lead by a solid story and excellect direction the film
goes from jaw dropping effect to stark thought.It's good to see a film which was lauched UK side with minimal promotion
make such a huge impact, I had heard so many rumours of this script and
it's
effects it made the films a must go, now I am just counting the days until
Matrix 2, Then Matrix 3 completes the story.If you ask anyone who has seen the film it is going to be one of two
answers, you either like it or you hate it, there doesn't seem to be too
much inbetween, trust me, keep the open mind, watch it and enjoy
it.


******
24 April 2000
10

I'm stunned to see the people giving this movie bad reviews.  Who are they?
What do they like?  Where are they from?I've been around long enough to know a great ENTERTAINING movie when I see
one.  I'm 31 years old.  I saw the original Star Wars the day it opened, as
well as all the other ones on opening day.  I think The Godfather is the
greatest movie ever.  I think Sean Penn is brilliant.  I think "Bottle
Rocket" was extremely underrated.That said, I feel like I know a good flick when I see it.  This movie
simply
ROCKS!  I've never left a movie feeling both intellectually stimulated and
energetically charged like this.  It MUST be seen on the big screen, or a
great TV with good loud sound.  By the end I was ready to run out into
traffic and jump from car to car.  What a rush.So, if you have NOT seen this, give it a try.  Don't trust the reviews in
here that are negative.  See it with an open mind, pay close attention to
the story, and enjoy.  I've now seen it about 8 times, but the first time
is
always the best.

******
21 April 2000
8

This film operates on many levels - the most profound of which is probably
the handling of fate and destiny. It is an excellent film. The inter-play of
reality / virtual reality is delightfull handled, even in post-Kantian
hermeneutics.But is 'mind over matter' or 'just beleiveing' enough to shape our destiny?
What happens when life seems to conspire against us, and nothing we do can
control our events?If all this is beyond you - just enjoy a great action movie with stunning
special effects.

******
21 April 2000
8

This film operates on many levels - the most profound of which is probably
the handling of fate and destiny. It is an excellent film. The inter-play of
reality / virtual reality is delightfull handled, even in post-Kantian
hermeneutics.But is 'mind over matter' or 'just beleiveing' enough to shape our destiny?
What happens when life seems to conspire against us, and nothing we do can
control our events?If all this is beyond you - just enjoy a great action movie with stunning
special effects.

******
20 April 2000
10

The film had very breath-taking graphics.  For instance, the scene where
Morpheus is rescued and Neo dodges bullets is inexplicably choreographed
perfectly.  Most of the action films that I see are unrealistic.  It
doesn't
seem like it could happen, but this film is different, somehow.  I can't
explain it.  Also, the idea that the movie presents is shockingly
plausible.
Although, I doubt it, I'm always on the lookout for agents.  If you don't
gather anything from the movie, at least get this.  Do not try and bend the
spoon. That's impossible. Instead... only try to realize the truth.  There
is no spoon.  Then you'll see, that it is not the spoon that bends, it is
only yourself.  ~Oracle~

******
18 April 2000
10

As many may know already, this movie is absolutely 
incredible. Sure the special effects are great, the sound
track rocks, and the martial arts are the best, but what really 
sets this movie apart is the plot. I'm a practitioner of 
Buddhist meditation and this movie is like a metaphor for
life. In a way, we are all asleep in the matrix of our own 
minds. Few actually wake up to 'reality'. The 'reality' of the 
matrix is a dark one, compared to the brilliance of the 
buddhist path to 'reality'. Nonetheless, this movie is the 
best movie I have seen since Baraka.

******
14 April 2000
10

The Matrix stars Keanu Reeves, a computer hacker,has been searching for a
man named Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), nearly all his life. He finally
gets to find him, but the Neo (Reeves) finds out that their is a question
that is more mysterious then Morpheus, and the question is, "What is the
Matrix?"Ground-breaking Sci-Fi movie with some of the greatest special effects of
all time. Reeves is good as Neo, Laurence Fishburne is outstanding as
Morpheus. Another highlight of the movie is the kung-fu scenes. Also
starring Carrie Ann Moss, and Hugo Weaving. Won 4 acedmy
awards.*** 1/2

******
13 April 2000
7

Some people believe that there is a Messianic message in this movie because
of the fight between Matrix's campaign of domination in the "real" world and
"Thomas A. Anderson / Neo," Keanu Reeves (A Walk in the Clouds, Much Ado
About Nothing) the man who is to save the world.  He joins warriors
"Morpheus " Laurence Fishburne (Searching for Bobby Fischer),  and "Trinity"
Carrie Ann Moss (Lethal Tender)  in their warfare against the Matrix.Neo does die and comes back to life and at one point he believes that "He is
the One" to save the world. If that was the intent of the writer, the
message is not clear as far as I am concerned. There are Messianic elements
in many of the super-heros such as Superman, with his powerful vision,
Batman who fights the evil and forces of darkness of Gotham City and I just
think that Neo is another super-hero with some type of god like'
characteristics. To characterize the movie as a Christian movie is really
stretching it. There is an element of deception such as the woman in red, is
she real or is she a deceiver?  There is deception  in Batman when all the
enemies come wearing a camouflage such as Mr. Freeze, The Riddler,   etc. I
believe that there is an element of deception or even mistaken identity, if
you will, in many movies.
I really enjoyed the movie for its special effects and so did the members of
the Academy of Motion Pictures as the movie won an Oscar for Special Effects
among many other Oscars.
I am not much into science fiction but I bought the tape because it was
recommended by a bunch of Christian friends. The movie is fine, but I found
that the movies such as "The Sixth Sense" also have a religious side to them
as the boy seeks peace and shelter in a church. There is definitely a
struggle between good and evil, but everyone is dead already.  In "The Sixth
Sense" nobody gets that there is no big mystery about the movie except that
they are all dead and are talking. Does the dead talk? The Bible indicates
that they do. Look at Lazarus. And that was the catch, in The Matrix, that
many are led to believe: whether or not there is a Messianic message beneath
the surface. Perhaps, there is,  but I do not see that as a Christian movie,
just a     science-fiction movie which you can analyze anyway you want
to.
I had a hard time identifying scenes that were thoughts and scenes that were
part of the "realm of reality in the movie." Anyway, I thought that The
Truman Show had a big element of the "eternal" versus the "temporary"  in
the realm of reality.   
Favorite Scenes: Trinity jumping from one building to another. Obviously no
human can do that without some type of super power. But I don't think that
it would be fair to compare her to the Trinity known by
Christians.
Favorite Quotes: Trinity: " You're looking for him. I know because I was
once looking for the same thing. And when he found me, he told me I wasn't
really looking for him. I was  looking for an answer. It's the question that
drives us. It's the question that brought you here."  Morpheus:" I'm trying
to free your mind, Neo. But I can only show you the door. You're the one
that has to walk through it."
This type language sounds really Messianic. I guess one could watch the
movie from that perspective. Perhaps it should be fun to have a discussion
on the topic of the Christian message in "The Matrix." We will have to wait
until the sequel to see if that was indeed a much larger Messianic side to
the story.  I am not sure! Just watch and make your own analysis now and of
any future Matrix. Actually I could argue both sides of the
issue.

******
12 April 2000
10

What is The Matrix?
This is the main question for the character Neo in this
movie.
Well, the matrix is a movie full of special-effects, a great story-line,
very much action and good acting.
After thirty minutes of watching this movie you'll probably won't
understand
anything of it but that is what makes it a great movie, you actually have
to
pay attention and think about the movie.
The plot is pretty good for a SF-Action movie and the actors are doing a
great job (especially Laurence Fishburne and Hugo Weaving)
But the most spectacular thing about this movie are the special effects,
truly great. People walk on walls, jump great distances and dodge bullets
(!) The art-direction is also great and the weapon-shots are very well
taken.
As a conclusion, my sister, the greatest SF-Action hater in the world
actually liked this film a lot (she didn't admit this to me, but to my
parents)

******
10 April 2000
8

this movie utilized some of the greatest special effects seen in any film in
the last 10 years.  there were some awe-inspiring sequences. and for the most part i thought the characters and acting were very good -
with one exception of course.  keanu reeves is a bizarre phenomena.  he is a
terrible actor - at least at any character that requires any depth at all. 
he is fine in stuff like bill & ted or point break.  i can't figure out what
it is that makes him so popular with the public.  i mean he is good looking
but i can't believe it goes THAT far!  if it does that is pathetic.  what am
i saying.  of course it goes that far and of course it is
pathetic.the plot of this film was very interesting but it was executed in a way that
was a little too comic book-ish for me.  other than these two things i
thought it was a greatly entertaining film which anyone who hasn't seen
should check out.

******
9 April 2000
9

"The Matrix" is an excellent science-fiction/action movie that is truly
original. Superior special effects and splendid acting come together for an
entertaining show for two-plus hours. Keanu Reeves is very good in this
movie in the second best movie performance of his career (his best is
"Speed"). Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, Gloria Foster,
and Joe Pantoliano are terrific too. The acting, effects, sound, and look of
the movie are impressive. This is one cool picture.
Winner of 4 Oscars: Film Editing, Sound, Sound Effects Editing, and Visual
Effects. All well deserved.***1/2 (out of four)


******
9 April 2000
8

after all I had heard about this movie and the number of awards it got, I
was expecting a lot more....after dredging up the old 'super-smart computers taking over the world
theme' it was down hill after thatthe dude in the trench coat kept making this big deal that you can control
everything you want in the matrix, and yet the real people keep running
around like chickens with their heads cut off....and exactly how did he
not
get touched by that chain gun from the helicopter?what kind of self-respecting super computer would let a bunch of pathetic
humans screw around with the program anyway?  why hasn't it squashed them
long ago?  shouldn't it be aware of everything going on at all
times?I guess the self-righteous humans don't mind killing their own to further
their own plans as well....who cares about all the police and security
guards..they're just in the way I guessand finally, last time I checked, love's first kiss to awaken the dead is
only in fairy tales...GIVE ME A BREAK!

******
8 April 2000
9
The Matrix, despite some claims, is not just special effects. The film is
visually and aurally stunning but that serves to better convey an idea that
had me thinking long after the credits had rolled. The idea is that the
world we are living in has been created for us...but it's not that simple.In fact, this film is never simple. It's a visual and mental workout:
cinema
at it's best.

******
8 April 2000
10

Keanu Reeves has finally developed a bit of real acting skill!  And he
displays it in this cinematic phantasmagoria that features some absolutely
breathtaking special effects, a marvelous story, and the best fight
sequences since some of Bruce Lee's later works!  Great musical score,
great
wardrobe, fabulous backdrops.  What can I say?  This is just one heck of a
movie!  It's the perfect combination of The Fifth Element, and one of
those
old nature documentaries with the flower blooming in sped-up motion.  Rent
it today!!!!

******
7 April 2000
10

what a great movie...it was so good it overshadowed Keanu's acting and I
didn't even notice how bad it was...(I'm assuming it was, couldn't tell ya
fer sure!)the visual effects were like nothing I've ever seen...The storyline was
very
original and I actually found myself, quite literally, "on the edge of my
seat" towards the end...holy moley what a film!

******
6 April 2000
10

This is truly a great movie. Not only is the script faultless and well
thought-out, also the effects are superb and in perfect harmony with the
fine modern musical performance. For me it's one of those films that are
able to set a new standard or move a beacon, if you like. Looking forward
to
Matrix 2001

******
3 April 2000
10

I saw most of the new Movies that came out in 1999.  The Matrix was the best
and it is my favorite movie.  The story is very interesting and suspenseful
and the special effects are spectacular. The directing and editing is also
spectacular.  The film almost makes you feel you are seeing comic book
action in real life.  The angles of the shots, and action is quite unique. 
I think the Matrix should have been a finalist for the Oscar's best film of
the year.  

******
3 April 2000
10

This movie kept me on the edge of my seat!  I'm not a Sci-Fi buff but this
movie is worth seeing.  Keanu Reeves was great. I can't believe that he
only
took 9 months of martial arts for this movie. He looked like he had
studied
for years.  I rate this movie a 11.  

******
3 April 2000
10

The first time that I finished watching " The Matrix ", I couldn't
wait
to see it again. This movie has everything that every good movie has,
thats
why its a great movie. This movie is Action Action Action. Not one second
of
this movie is boring at all. The movie carries out a plot that keeps you
thinking about your life in a different way. Every time I eat a steak, I
think, this tastes good, but is it real? The few people that don't like
this
movie because you think that the plot was too confusing, must of watched
the
movie with earplugs or something, cus Morpheus spends almost the whole
movie
explaining what the Matrix is and what the Agents are trying to do. So
there
shouldn't be anything not to understand. And then there's the FX. Oh man,
this movie really takes the special efects to another level. The way they
were able to make those eye-catching effects along with the sound effects
was amazing. No other movie has been able to do that, except maybe " The
Fifth Element". But overall this is a must see, and I give it a
Ten.

******
2 April 2000
10

Very very very nice special effect.
It's the best I've seen.
The sound editing was also great.  It's amazing they put it all together,
espeically the lobby shoot out scene.  Just try to imagine them trying to
reproduce sound for that sequence.  It's amazing how it came
out.
The theme color was gloomy, black and somewhat blue and white.  It's almost
like that movie Payback with Mel Gibson.  The result came out great as
well.

******
1 April 2000
9

Just saw it again for the first time since the original theatrical release.
I guess the Oscar hype and whatnot got me thinking about it again. Man,
those were some crazy special effects. It seems to me that if they are going
ahead and making it into a trilogy, then this may become the Star Wars of
the techie universe.Good fun.

******
30 March 2000
9

The MatrixDIRECTION `%
Once the special effects are rolling you might (will) start wondering how
they make the camera bend time and slow it down to see all the
action.ACTING %
The main good characters show good performances. However it's the satanic
like agents that pull in most of the atmosphere!EDITING/SPECIAL EFFECTS %
This movie was designed with editing in mind and work and plays like a dream
computer game.PLOT '%
Computers take over the world and uses humans as batteries. However this is
only the cover-up as the movie has got tons of Christian themes throughout
(and perhaps other idealogies). You are the one, who was forseen in
prophecy.... but where is the Judas character lurking?STRONG WORDS AND VIOLENCE ETC 79%
Much action and sparkling violence with few swear words (if
any)..MUSIC %
Lots of rock tunes to move the action along. Not what you call classical
music. I was wondering if these tunes have hidden messages within
them!SOUND -%
Loud explosions and other big sounds.HOOKABILITY %
Can't wait to see or hear what happens next.LASTABILITY `%
You want to know how it will end and if there will be a
sequel.OVERALL '%
The Christian theme is a nice touch. But the movie draws attention to the
role technology is having upon society in terms of our working and leisure
time. If you are reading this then you are on the internet, do you really
trust the internet? Is someone watching you? Are humans becoming like
commodities in a technology based society to be used by the higher unethical
human good? Are you willing to fight the evil or stand back and enjoy your
comforts in life, while you are being manipulated by satanic agents who want
to keep the status quo? For me and many people this is a BIG concern upon
how technology is being used to manipulate people, and this theme continues
with advance uses of genetic engineering. This is not neccessarily a better
movie than ones with lower ratings, but needs these ratings so people can
get informed quickly before it's too late!


******
30 March 2000
10

     One of the true SF classics. This film ironically is
the
first true Internet driven hit yet it reminds us of the
frail
boundary between what is real and what is virtual at the
turn
of the millenium. Intelligent,action packed and true to
the genre Matrix forces us to question how we often have
come to serve technology rather than have it serve us.
As
sobering as 2001 and Farenheit 451 with the ethical questions
embelematic of both of those classics not to mention the
state of the art visual and audio effects.

******
30 March 2000
8

I heard so many great things about "The Matrix" that I had to see it.
Overall, I was impressed.  The special effects were astounding and the
movie
encourages the viewers to question reality.  My only complaint is that
Laurence Fishburne's character spent a great deal of time explaining
exactly
what the Matrix is.  I feel that these explanations got a little bit dry
after a while.  Still, the concept of the Matrix is so different from
reality that I suppose some explanations were necessary.  Overall, a good
film.  8/10.


******
28 March 2000
10

The Matrix had everything, including the most beautiful
action i have ever seen in my life. One thing most people
dont catch about this movie, is that there is alot of christian
symbolism in this movie. of course neo is a jesus figure,
and im not going to bore you going into the details but the
movie was released on easter, think about that, and then
watch it again.

******
27 March 2000
9

God story line (yes it has some logical holes, but tell me
any movie who doesn't), incredible stunts and unbelievable
special effects.Can it be any better? Of course it can, but this movie would
be difficult to beat in its genre.One drawback, though, you can tell that The Matrix has too
much influences of Anime films.

******
26 March 2000
9

I am a movie fanatic and I would definitely say that this is my favorite
movie.  Great story, o.k. acting, amazing,  literally "award-winning"
special effects, great action, and great actors.  The only reason I gave it
a 9 instead of a 10 is because the story line can be a little hard to
understand and the acting is not the best.  But, besides that, definitely
rent this one.  It is a winner.

******
22 March 2000
9

I went into the theater not knowing what to expect.  I left the theater
thinking about nothing but the movie.  I haven't been that impressed with a
film in far too long.  Most action films have to be given a bit of...what
is
it called...suspension of disbelief, in order to be enjoyable.  This film
snatched my mental portion of suspended disbelief and took me for quite a
ride.  The simple betrayal and "saved by a woman's love" cliches aside, it
was as near-perfect a thing as I've seen on screen in way too long.


******
21 March 2000
8

"What is the Matrix?" we are asked?  The answer: a boring movie.  A few
wakeful moments during the fight scenes, naught but blissful slumber
everywhere else.  The presence of the odious Keanu Reeves only makes it
harder to find anything to like about it.

******
21 March 2000
9

Incredible special effects coupled with one of the most interesting plots
I
have seen in some time, make this one of the best movies of the year. The
cast was excellent. The only negative would be that it was just a little
too
gothic at times, but still a 9 in my book!

******
20 March 2000
9

Science fiction movies have taken their next great step
forwards.It's just as much a horror movie as it is science fiction... but it's
horror
that's much different from the usual hack 'n slash.Great performances, great script, great plot.  From the moment the movie
begins until the very end, you're going to wonder what is real and what is
not... which is the whole intent.The visual effects are stunning, and while the plot is nothing original,
"The Matrix" takes it to the next level.  If you didn't see it in the
theater then the video isn't going to do it complete justice - I'd advise
you to see it on DVD if possible, on widescreen tape if not... you'll want
to get the full effect.Considering the plot and the theme of the movie, it's pure poetry that one
of the groups on the soundtrack is Rage Against The Machine (they also did
a
song for "The Crow")... and the rest of the soundtrack is just as good.
(Okay, if your usual tastes are The Carpenters or Beethoven then you
probably won't be interested in the soundtrack)Wonderful performances by everyone involved, especially Keanu Reeves,
Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, and Joe Pantoliano.
The
cast blends well, and they're all believeable.*************** SPOILER WARNING ***************
*************************************************The only thing that would have made this 100% freaky instead of just 99%
would be if, at the end on the ship, Neo had reached up and unplugged
himself from the Matrix.Once you realize that as the Matrix is all in your mind, then you realize
that anything at all is possible... 'regular' people will be able to morph
just as the Sentinels do, (I presume the name "Sentinel" is a nod towards
the X-Men... one 'future history' of that comic has people enslaved in
camps, with giant robot Sentinels tracking down and taking out any rebels)
and that nothing is impossible - being able to fly is merely one way that
reality has no hold.One thing that bothered me slightly is the fact that the Sentinel program
calling itself "Agent Smith" showed emotion... that's a glandular response
not possible in a program.  On the other hand, emotional reactions can be
programmed in... anything can be.What is reality?  Whatever you want it to be.  Read through the Trivia
section for this movie and you'll see a whole bunch of Christian
references,
with "The One" as Jesus Christ, the Savior.  You could also say that when
Neo realizes what it all is, that he has acheived a state of nirvana, and
is
"one with everything" (hold the onions)... at that point, he *is* the
Matrix, and the Matrix is him.Enough philosophy.  You either enjoyed this movie or you didn't - and if
you
did enjoy it, you probably think it's one of the best around... because
this
movie has power.  It doesn't force anything down your throat, but lets you
discover it for yourself - and you'll probably enjoy that
immensely.

******
20 March 2000
10

  Exactly a year ago to the day, two things happened on March 20th. One I
guess I shouldn't talk about (because she'd probably kill me!). But the
other is that I got my first look at 'The Matrix'! All I saw was the
one-minute teaser trailer. It looked mysterious! I knew instantly that this
was something very different and I just had to see this film. I wanted to
know what the 'Matrix' was. And when I found out! Don't be fooled into
thinking that this film is just going to blow you away it's going to cause
your head to explode!  The film has a story that has been described as difficult to explain and
hard to understand when watching, but thankfully it wasn't like having to
watch Mission Impossible! Without giving the whole thing away this is what's
happening. You have Reeves playing Thomas 'Neo' Anderson, a computer
programmer for a big company who is also a computer hacker in his spare time
and sells the illegal stuff to the ones who want it. But right now Mr
Anderson has been having some very bad dreams, dreams that seem so real. He
keeps getting told about this 'Matrix' in these strange dreams. I mean just
what is this 'Matrix'? Some suspicious black suited men also want him for
something. He doesn't want to stick around to find out! Soon someone known
as Morpheus (Fishburne) contacts him and explains to him that he also is
looking for him, plus he'll tell him about his vivid dreams and he'll
explain to him just what the 'Matrix' is. We begin to find out that reality
isn't what it seems.  Well what the hell is the 'Matrix'!? Finding out wasn't going to be an
easy task. As the tagline said 'Unfortunately no one can be told what the
'Matrix' is.' So I could see that I was going to have to pay my £5 and go
find out just like everyone else!  The story is original and very unique, taking a truckload of ideas,
thoughts, effects, action and fitting them nicely into something just over 2
hours long. What makes this movie work so well is the strong story element.
It's also one of those really rare sci-fi action films that actually makes
you think. It raises some questions and it has its own answers. But besides
being an education lesson it is extremely entertaining. So entertaining that
it's almost unbelievable that such a film can be exposed to the public! It
manages to make itself so incredibly cool. Take 'Men in Black' and double it
and you're not even half way there. But think a futuristic John Woo film and
you're pretty close! Most of the action takes place in the second half of
the film where all hell breaks loose. The action is very stylish, very over
the top and also well thought out. You don't see someone run up a wall,
dodge bullets at high speed and park a helicopter spectacularly in the side
of a building in your traditional boring 'let's go shoot some bad guys'
action film. This is something very different.  The Matrix will do for special effects what Terminator 2 did for well,
um special effects! This is ground breaking stuff. Used to a major extent
in the film are the Flo-Mo effects where the camera circles around the
action. It's unlike anything else and it just looks outstanding! The
shootout between Reeves and Weaving as they freeze in mid air, the camera
goes 360 degrees around them. It's just unbelievable!  Everyone is cast perfectly in their roles with Reeves and Anne-Moss
looking amazingly cool throughout the film. Fishburne looks cool too, and is
helped with the fact that his character is highly knowledgeable. But the
best performances have to go to those black suited men known as 'Agents',
led by Hugo Weaving. They seem so simple and smart, the way they talk with
their monotone voices! They are very, very nasty and I like
it!  The speedy fight scenes and use of wire frames all work really well,
adding more to the effect of believing the unbelievable! There are so many
unforgettable little touches, which make this movie stand out amongst
others. The way those bullets slowly fly out and make crisp sounds as they
hit the floor, the lush watery effects, even the spoon and of course the
woman in red! She's unforgettable! There's also the nice touch of adding in
a few hidden features which may make the real enthusiast want to watch the
film a couple more times to find everything out. Some will watch it again
because they didn't understand it at all (Though it's usually these people
that hate the film). But I'm sure most will watch it again for the reason
that it's just so damn good!  Those Wachowski brothers have created a masterpiece of a movie. And I'd
just like to say well done to them! I knew that if I was only going to see
one movie in 1999 (just in case I ended up poor or something!) then it was
going to be this!My Rating - I'm afraid I can give it no more then the 10 out of 10 it
deserves!


******
19 March 2000
10
     I have never seen a movie quite like this.The plot is so seemlessly
interwoven to itself.What is the matrix?You must see for yourself.Neo is the
man of mystery in the movie.He learns that he must destroy the matrix and it
lies.I think some people are confused by the plot.It is confusing.No one
knows how or why the AI took over.I love the Effects and Sound.Lawerence
plays the part better than any man alive can.The matrix is REFRESHING.Its
not SW,Star Trek,Aliens,ETC.It is a stand alone world.Hollywood take heed
from this movie.Further,Agent Smith steals every minute he is on.THE classic
goverment spook plays to perfection.I can't wait to have a dvd player.In
summary,The matrix now has a following similar to SW.I never get tired of
watching it.Sw is the same thing for me.WO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

******
18 March 2000
10

This was one of the best sci-fi movies I have ever seen! I mean the
storyline and plot was really complicated but the special effects were
awesome.  It had action from beginning to end.  It also had everything in
it.  It had love, some parts were funny, action, and violence.  And that is
what makes a movie great.  I cannot wait until part 2 comes out.


******
15 March 2000
10

This movie just amazed me with its excellent special effects & excellent
action sequences. This is Keanu's best movie yet & the perfect role for him.
Fishburne who also starred in the excellent Event Horizon, shines here 2. &
Trinity(Carrie Anne Moss) really & literally kicks butt. It maybe confusing
the 1st time around & thats y u must see it again & again. This is
mind-boggling, sci-fi thrill ride that every action & sci-fi fan must see &
have in their own collection. I can't wait for the sequels. "Follow the
white rabbit." 

******
12 March 2000
7

As good a movie as The Matrix unquestionably is, venturing into many
interesting thoughts and philosophies, one has to understand that the father
of all of this is William Gibson. He invented not only cyberspace, but also the Matrix; the place in which you
interact with information in physical form. This his hero Case did in
Neuromancer (1984), and this is something Johnny Mnemonic did.What the Wachowski brothers have done is to take it to another level, give
it a little twist: What if the physical manifestations of information
started to question their own existance? What is reality?When the people in Gibson's novels are trying to get in to cyberspace, the
people in Wachowski's movie are trying to get out. This is a pivotal thing
that not many have cared to take notice of. People have been so busy
declaring The Matrix so unique that they cannot see that Gibson already did
it, and Philip K. Dick before him. 

******
12 March 2000
10

I am surprised that this movie has not got any recognition for its original
screenplay and for direction. For those people who say that the movie has
great special effects, I say that they have missed the whole point. Sure,
Starship Trooper had great special effects, but what makes the Matrix so
compelling is the plot and screenplay.The idea that we are living in a make-believe world, and not even aware of
it, is a fallout of the concept of Maya, or Illusion. I am surprised that a
two guys from the west could articulate this theory so well. This movie
works at a higher level, and those who get it will enjoy the movie much
more.

******
10 March 2000
10

I must admit that this was one great movie.So great was this flik that I
saw
it 3 times in the theatre and 5 times on video.
The movie is good, not only for it's exellent special effects but for it's
very original story line aswel.I was pleasently surprised...Great action
sequences.

******
10 March 2000
9

This is one heck of great movie. The special effects are its high points
and
its action scenes deliver a new style to Hollywood films. I think that the
effect of having a character freeze on the screen, then having the camera
pan around them is an amazing concept. The slowed bullets and the ripple
of
air behind them set a new standard of suspense that can be integrated into
all types of movies. The story line was wicked and thought provoking. The
use of guns in this movie gave it its special identity from many other
movies. And I just love the style the Agents had, especially Agent Smith.
However I don't think Trinity was that good looking but at least she was a
good actor.

******
6 March 2000
9

The Matrix takes the viewer into a world of sub-reality and conspiracy
theory. But in this case the plot extends beyond the bounds, creativity and
originality like anything before it. The movie keeps the viewer guessing
between what is reality and what is unreal throughout the entire movie,
which makes it a rather stimulating watch for those viewers who don't mind
a
somewhat complex storyline. The movie though will suit the action fanatic
with an abundance of fight seens, including a memorable one between
Laurence
Fishburne and one of the bad guys. Once you take away the action and
stimulating storyline there is a rather original and unique science fiction
tone around the movie that will please any sci-fi fan. To back up the
excellent movie is a well suited soundtrack featuring mostly heavymetal and
alternate artists that give the movie even extra bite.


******
5 March 2000
10

Great story ( a little too difficult for many people)
Great action
Great FX
Great Art direction
Great acting
Perfect rhythm
Great two-hands direction
If you liked this movie the first time you'll like more the next.I think that this movie deserved some nominations more,

******
4 March 2000
8

Just to say that this was a very well-paced film, and the special effects
were the best ever - in a day and age when this is becoming increasingly
difficult.
Could be seen as a trifle slow at first, and somewhat dialogue-bound
at
times, nonetheless becomes a gripping drama.  This is the only film I
could
place in the same league as Blade Runner - my favourite.  It needs further
viewing, as there is a lot of eye candy to take in, but the atmosphere is
superb.  Quite a few nods to other movies, I fear, but this gave it a
much-needed tongue-in-cheek overlay.  

******
29 February 2000
10

I wont tell you.
I'll just say that when you will find out for yourself it will be one of the
most amazing experience of your life.
the best S.F movie since ALIEN (1977).
   GO AND SEE. 

******
29 February 2000
10

I first went to this movie thinking that it was going to be another one of
those cartoonish, one-dimensional movies that they jazz up with a little
special effects.  After I saw it for the third time at the theaters, I
figured that maybe I was wrong. This movie probably contains every aspect
that the true Sci-Fi fan "Digs": Interesting Plot, Cutting Edge Special
Effects, Kung-Fu (Alright not Sci-Fi, but who cares), futuristic gun
fights,
Keanu Reeves (Cool Dude), Laurence Fishburne (Glad he got to do this movie
after that other one), and Sunglasses (Lots of them).  I feel kind of sorry
for the movies to follow. This movie sets a new standard for movie making.
I
don't mind being a "Copper Top" if I can watch movies like
these.

******
29 February 2000
9

The Blade Runner of the New Millennium. The Wachowski Brothers have crafted
an ingenious story line, and added some 'kick a**' special effects
intertwined with world class martial arts action. The result, is a dynamic
sci-fi joy ride, which ultimately reminds us of the blessing of life, and
what it means to be Free. Maybe not as ground breaking as Ridley Scott's
1982 Blade Runner but close. Certainly a Keeper.

******
28 February 2000
9

The Matrix might be the best science fiction film I have ever seen. The
story was a provocative exploration of reality that kept me riveted to the
screen with never a dull moment. It was cleverly executed with wonderous
special effects that weren't just a light show, not just dazzle, but a
spectacular addition to a world of incomprehensible impossibility. The
acting was only so so, but the storyline itself was so cool that even
average acting couldn't subract anything from the winning formula. It was
action packed and entertaining beyond most science fiction films out there
today. I am sure all the sci fi heads have seen it already, but, I would
recommend this film to anyone seeking adventure. If you love a roller
coaster, you will love The Matrix..have fun!  Wheeeeee

******
26 February 2000
10

This movie blew me away the first time I saw it. It then went on to blow
me
away every time I saw it there after.Just when you think you found
something
wrong, it makes sense. The only thing wrong I found was in the scene when
Neo gets the phone  from the Fed-Ex guy, you can see somebodies hand in
back of him in the scene. I truly think this is the greatest movie ever
made. Any one who says this movie is not good,not written well, or has bad
acting in its is either jealous or couldn't follow the storyline and it
fustrated them. Can't wait for the next two parts. I would love to see the
movie go back in time to when they pulled trinity out of the matrix. It
would be cool to see her hacker years.Larry and Andy are it.


******
25 February 2000
10

The Matrix was a movie I was a bit skeptical about when I first heard
about
it.  The idea of it sounded a bit like 'Dark City'.  But it is nothing
like
it.  The Matrix isn't as dark as 'Dark City', and really can't be compared
to it.  The story of The Matrix was not very original, but bent so it
feels
like something new.  Anyone who has seen Dark City will probably be
interested in seeing The Matrix.  The acting was good.  The Wachowski
brothers has the talent that John Woo has...They can make anyone look
cool,
and the outcome is evident in 'The Matrix'.The special effects are you best I've seen.  'Bullet Time', as what the
directors call it, is very impressive.  There is nothing like bullet time.
The only thing I can think of is in 'Lost in Space', where they use their
hyper-drive.The Matrix needs to be seen by any action fanatic.

******
23 February 2000
9

All around the best film of 99. Awesome special effects, excellent writing
and acting (I was VERY surprised by Reeves performance) and wonderful use
of
lighting, shadows and animation. The soundtrack complimented the film
wonderfully. This was an excellent movie.

******
22 February 2000
10

Well to talk about Matrix,its really difficult.I guess there are so many
dimensions in the film that its really hard to figure what the movie was
all
about.I think this is a masterpiece,the dialogues are excellent but might
be too hard for ordinary people to understand.The acting performnce is
very
good specially by Lawrance fishbourne and keanu reeves in fact the whole
crew has
done a great job.
There are so many aspects in the movie one of which I think is the
awareness
of what is our innerself and God.The movie changes its dimension when neo
meets morpheous and the turn is so fantasised that people would
think,whats
going on?I think the movie is very much a must see and those who havent
seen
it so far I think they have missed one of the great masterpieces of the
century. 

******
22 February 2000
9
The Matrix was one of the better movies of 1999, but the people who call
this movie one of the most inspirational movies ever is out of their mind.
The first hour is extremely weird, and the action does not pick up until
the
gun fight in the building. Only then does the special effects that seemed
to
be promised throughout the movie appear. Granted, Laurance Fishburne and
Keanu Reeves do their best, but the chartecter development is quick and
not
very elaborative. One final nagging is the agents, who look like over
acting
Men In Black.But that's the bad stuff. The good stuff is this:The special effects. I said earlier that they do not really appear until
the
second half of the movie, but its impact is felt throughout.  The part
when
Neo wakes up from the The Matrix is very impressive, as is Neo and
Morphius'
kung fu lesson.The acting. Laurence Fishburne is extremly impressive as Morphius, and
spews
out half of the movie's memorable lines, such as :"No one can be told what the Matrix is. You have to see it
yourself"And that about sums it up. If you read this review looking for insight on
the plot, all I can say is this:"No one can be told what the plot of the Matrix is. You have to see it
yourself."

******
21 February 2000
10

The Matrix is the best movie ever made.  This movie is so perfect in every
way, the story is original and clever, the action, stunts and effects are
the best you'll ever see.  The movie starts off with Carrie Ann Moss in
this
room surrounded by police and then in 10 seconds all the police are dead
and
she's not even harmed, and all the audience are thinking wow!.  After that
the film starts explaining what happens for about an hour which it does
need
because there is a lot to explain, but there are good action scenes in the
middle like a training kung fu fight between Keanu Reeves and Laurence
Fishbourne.  The last half hour of the movie is my favourite part of any
movie ever the action does not stop the whole way through, it starts off
with Laurence Fishbourne being captured by Hugo Weaving the main bady
agent
who are trying to kill the goodies (Reeves, Fishbourne, Moss etc), Reeves
and Moss try to rescue Fishbourne from these nearly invincible agents. If
you haven't seen this film you are really missing out on something, just
make sure you concentrate or you will get confused.  My rating is 10 out
of
10.  

******
20 February 2000
9

        I have to be honest and say that when this movie came out in
the
theatres, I had absolutely no interest in seeing it. And a big part of
it
was because of Keanu Reeves. But I kept hearing how wonderful this movie
was
and this was at about the same time when Star Wars: The Phantom Menace
came
out. Now mind you, Star Wars wasn't that great either but the
hype
surrounding that movie promised, at the very least, an entertaining time.
I
recently had a conversation about movies with my sister and her
boyfriend
and when they found out I still hadn't seen this movie, I was
soundly
chastised for it and was subsequently "summoned" to come over to their
place
to view it on DVD. And you know what? I'm glad they did.        The story takes place in the future where technology has taken
over
the world. In fact, Earth as you know it has been transformed into
a
technological play ground where reality and fantasy are so intertwined
that
it is almost impossible to tell where one ends and the other begins. We
meet
Neo (Keanu Reeves) at the beginning and find out quickly that this
quiet
young man is actually a brilliant computer hacker. He is quickly
recruited
by a band of secrete underground rebels who hope to free the world from
the
clutches of technology. It seems that computers in the future have
become
self-aware and have taken over the world by enslaving humans and
these
rebels lead by Morpheous (Laurence Fishburne) are hoping that Neo is
the
"Chosen-One" to free them from this slavery.        I have to say that the special effects are wonderful. I've
seen
quite a few special effects intensive movies this year and The Matrix
comes
out very near the top. The only other one that I thought was better is
Star
Wars but that was to be expected when 95% of it was computer generated
and
George Lucas is backing it. The Matrix comes very close and in fact in
some
places out performs Star Wars in the creativity department.        I mentioned earlier that I stayed away from this movie because
of
Keanu Reeves and I'm sure many of you will agree that he is not in the
same
echelon as Tom Cruise or Kevin Spacey but I was pleasantly surprised
here.
He did do a fairly good job as Neo but part of it was the fact that he
did
do his own stunts and brought a sense of believability to his
character.
What made this movie even better was the rest of the cast,
especially
Laurence Fishburne. He had a lot of thought provoking dialogue in this
movie
and his portrayal of the rebel leader and mentor to Neo was
well
depicted...although it did seem somewhat similar to Yoda and Luke
Skywalker.
The one actor that I really did enjoy was Joe Pantoliano as Cypher.
He
played the laid back, yet somewhat cynical rebel very well and when he
turns
on his comrades his performance becomes even more enjoyable.        If you choose to see this movie, keep in mind that this movie
is
primarily about ideas. Focusing on plot flow will only ruin the
movie's
intentions. I have seen other reviews where people commented on the laws
of
physics or other such scientific evaluations and to be honest, this is
only
a movie. Its intention is to portray some idea(s), not to educated
the
public about energy transfer or the laws of relativity. This movie
makes
quite a statement about what reality is and how we perceive it so if any
of
you are looking to see a thought provoking movie with some pretty
impressive
special effects, go see this movie.A

******
19 February 2000
10

When I first saw this film I came out ecstatic. I've seen the film dozens
of
times since then and my original impression remains.  The film operates on
so many levels and is so intricately woven that it withstands such
scrutiny.
Of course it has its faults, but like its merits, they are entirely
dependent on the viewer's point of view.  I kept my mouth shut upon exiting
the theatre for the first time, and sure enough, all of my companions
praised it, but each for different reasons.  The film acts very much like a
mirror in that way: each viewer seems to pick up on the themes that
resonate
with them the most.  I, for one, relate to the notion that reality is
entirely subjective... the world IS as we think it is.  (that, and
Carrie-Anne Moss rocks...)

******
14 February 2000
9

*mild (i.e. not blatant) spoiler within*The first mistake you can make is to assume that The Matrix is just a good
action movie.  It is, of course - there are plenty of fresh and genuinely
entertaining sequences in here.But if you pay attention, you'll notice the real brilliance of the movie -
the underpinning themes.  There are a lot of messianic and Taoist ("there
is
no spoon") hints; just look at IMDB's own trivia.It continues.  The Matrix seems to be an allegory for issues of race;
notice
how all the Agents are white, male, and middle-aged, and how they're the
ones in charge of creating an illusion?  Notice how the Nebuchadnezzar crew
is dominated by minorities (but not afraid to include Caucasians), and they
prefer the real world?  Neo is ultimately able to thrive in both... so I
would argue that they're relaying the concept of accepting both white and
non-white as a part of your universe.And it goes on... I could probably sit here for hours.  The point is that
the movie does wonders for what it implies, not just what it points out
directly. 

******
12 February 2000
10

By far, The Matrix has been the most creative and outstanding movie I
have
ever seen.  The plot was hard to follow at first but the special effects
made up for it.  I would gladly watch it over and over again.  Reeves did
a
wonderful job portraying Neo, it fitted him well.  I can see why the DVD
is
always out of stock. . . Five stars!

******
10 February 2000
10

One of the best of the best cause I think it overcomes a lot of this kind
of action movies. I think Keanu is the least of it. The best of the movie is
the story. I don't know if it is an original story, but the directors have
known very well how to take it to celluloid. I like the soundtrack very much
too.First time I watched the trailer in theaters I knew this film would be a
great movie, and it has been.


******
8 February 2000
10

I have watched The Matrix 5 times in different cinemas, but in the THX
featured cinema, The Matrix was at it's best. The Matrix features action,
sci-fi, suspense and a good story in one, which is very rare. I never
looked
at Keanu Reeves as a great actor but he was perfect in his role as Neo.
Not
only was the acting great, all SFX were superb, like I never have seen
before. The Phantom Menace has also great SFX but it's just a fairy tale,
with no real story.
When I walked out the cinema the first time, the first thing I did was
look
around....... The fact that the world as we know it is just sophisticated
kind of virtual reality and nothing more.
I know one thing for sure, the first DVD-disc I buy will be the one of The
Matrix. I really want to see the making-of. And I already can't wait till
The Matrix 2 will be in the cinemas.


******
8 February 2000
10

The Matrix is the best movie I ever seen, because who knows that this film
is not the reality??? The actors are wonderful especially Keanu Reeves. I
love this man, that is also a reason why I love this film!!! If you don`t
watch this film yet just go to the next Videostore and look out for
it!!!

******
8 February 2000
10

Brilliant Film
For the key to interpretation, check the words of the guy at the start of
the film who knocks at Neo's door. Listen to his response when Neo gives
him
the computer disk....

******
6 February 2000
10

Not much to say.  Except unbelievably brilliant. Great costumes, great
acting, and cute boys.  Many layers of meaning from mythological symbolism
to corrollation with the story of the Buddha's enlightenment.  Even the
character's names mean something.  The next great science fiction film
trilogy is underway, and it's not directed by George Lucas.  Do yourself a
favor, even if you don't get it, pretend you do.  This one is destined to
be
a classic.

******
4 February 2000
10

The Matrix is the movie of my life,I have seen it for six times and I
memorize almost all of the script.The philosophy behind it was so
impressive,it was same with the subject of my "philosophy of mind" course
and I had already spent much time on thinking about it, and I had similar
beliefs about the real world and the world where we live,what I mean is
that
may be really we live in a dream world not same with the one in The Matrix
but a version of it,may be the ruler is not a machine but God, who knows!No
body can prove the existence of the physical world.Discovering that The
Matrix was about this subject was really excited me and it has increased
the
impression of the movie on me.So in my opinion seeing The Matrix only once
is really a loss, because each time I've discovered another aspect of it
and
enjoyed more.
And also Keanu Reeves' and Laurance Fishburne's performances were
perfect, especially Fishburne's, He was excellent,I admired his
talent.
The Matrix is unique,it fits no other category, it has created its own
category.
Finally, I am really sorry for those who don't know what The Matrix
is,
and unfortunately "No one can be told what the matrix is, you have to see
it
for yourself"


******
3 February 2000
10

I think "The Matrix" is one of the best sci-fi movies ever made. Also I
think that this film is about an authentic and original story that I had
never seen before. This movie is one of my ten favorite movies of all
genres.

******
2 February 2000
9

At first, I wasn't interested in seeing the Matrix. But after hardly hearing
any bad reviews for it (and believe me, I hear bad reviews for every movie I
enjoy) I decided to give it a try. At first, although I really loved the
fights, graphics and characters, the plot confused me. (Anyone confused by
the plot at all should go to www.knowthematrix.com and you'll find out
everything you could want to know) By the second time I watched it, I really
understood it, which made the movie even more enjoyable.I really loved this movie. Just about every character, good or bad, is very
interesting and cool. The acting was excellent. Even though I think this was
Keanu Reeves at his best, the best acting jobs were done by Laurence
Fishburne (Morpheus) and Carrie-Anne Moss (Trinity). Hugo Weaving did an
excellent job as Agent Smith and Joe Pantoliano was great as Cypher as
well.The plot is one of the best movie plots I've seen in a movie. An accountant
by day, computer hacker by night guy suddenly finds out that reality as we
know it is fake and that we are actually in a giant computer program run by
robots (that we created, of course) in order for them to get power. Not only
that, but he finds out that he is one who is, according to prophecy, going
to put an end to it. The greatest thing is that you learn things just as Neo
does, so you can really relate to his character.My favorite thing about this movie is that no matter how many times you
watch it, you will learn more about it. I guarantee this. Some may not like
this movie because the plot is too complicated, but I recommend that anyone
who enjoys movies should go buy this one right away.

******
1 February 2000
10

This movie sets the gold standard for all action and sci-fi movies to come.
The story was good, the acting well-tuned, and the special effects were
mind-boggling. The scene in the police station takes violence and turns it
into a work of art. The camera work was spectacular to say the least with
the 3D rotational stuff. This movie is destined to become a perennial
favorite.

******
31 January 2000
8

This isn't one of the greatest Si-Fi movies ever made, but it was the best
one of '99.  The story takes so many turns that it's easy to enjoy and think
about.  However, it saddens me when the obligatory violent scene is the
scene the audience appears to like most.  The scene, for me, didn't need to
be there, as it goes against the characters' morality.Overall, it's good for a few thrills, but there's nothing in it that other
movies haven't done better.  If you liked the violence and anarchic ideas in
the Matrix, see Fight Club.  If you liked the mysterious world and gradually
revealing plotline, see Dark City.  If you liked the films overall style,
see Bound (The Wachowski Brothers' first movie).  Each one of those films
serves it's particular purpose much more effectively than The Matrix.  The
Matrix does combine the three elements in a cohesive way, and does produce
one heck of a thrill, so it offers something few other movies can give.  See
it, and, if you like it, see the other ones I've mentioned, you'll find they
have a lot to offer as well.  My rating: 8/10

******
30 January 2000
10

when i first saw this movie i was spellbound. i had never seen a movie like
it before and probably won't until the sequel arrives at my local movie
theater. the wachowski brothers, two filmmakers unknown to me before this
film, soar into my favourites list.
this move has it all. great story, great action, good acting (especially
from Hugo Weaving and Laurence Fishburne) and great special effects and
photography.


******
29 January 2000
10

Super visuals and a plot like no other make this one of the finest
sci-fi's ever! This film will spawn at least two follow ups and both will
be
hard pressed to beat this. However, the very idea of more of the same
should
make anybodys mouth water.

******
29 January 2000
10

I think that The Matrix was one of the best films of 1999.  The concept was
excellent, but yet the actual execution of the plot could have been
improved
upon slightly.The special effects in the movie were spectacular and revolutionary.  I
enjoy special effects, and his the matrix had eye-candy comin' out of it's
output plug.Keanu Reeves' character could have had a better script, but only in a few
places was it a bit flaky.Spend a few dollars and buy the movie.  If you want to spend a little
extra,
the collector's addition has a making-of section at the end which describes
the special effects and concept of the movie.This movie makes me go "woa!"

******
28 January 2000
8

The diversity of the brothers Wachowski is quite incredible. Almost trying
to prove that it takes no talent to make the same film over and over again
(Spielberg?). They go from Bound to this. Bound being a lesbian film-noir,
Matrix being a movie which is sure to be imitated as we go technology
crazy
in the C21. Putting Keanu in a high budget, special-effects laden vision
of
the future (or the present) may have seemed like a big gamble. Keanu had
been making stinkers for a long time and had yet proved he had a real
talent
or box-office pull. Yet they have placed him in position of what must have
been a hard fought for role. Then having seen Keanu as Neo, it is
impossible
to imagine anyone else being the computer nerd of the future. It may not
be
a real role of emotional stretch but these are often the hardest ones to
bring life to. Keanu manages it and has also cemented his place on the
Hollywood A-List.It is an action movie, for sure. Let that not distract you though. The
action is there and also the possibility that effects can over-shadow the
ability this movie has to affect. A vision of the vision as bleak as this
has been shown before but this movie really does give you the potential to
believe that we are already living the future.The plot may be a little confusing but the pace of the adventure doesn't
try
to throw the plot out the window. For effects fans, as well as
entertainment
seekers alike this movie tells us that the future of Keanu as well as the
Brothers Wachowski is very bright indeed.

******
27 January 2000
10

After seeing the Matrix two weeks ago on video, I realised that I missed so
much by not seeing at the cinema.  I found the movie to have an excellent
script that kept me interested for the whole 2 hours and even more.  I had
no idea what the Matrix was until I saw the film, so I am very greatful that
none of my friends or spoilers on the internet revealed the secret to
me before my viewing.  I am an Australian so I am very proud to say that
this film was made down here with Australian crew and cast members.  I am
very pleased to see Keanu Reeves in a film that is good as and even better
than Speed.  Keanu was great as Neo and I also thought that Carrie-anne Moss
suited her character, Trinity, right down to the bone.I was enthralled every second of the movie and it was very unpredictable
which made it even better.

******
25 January 2000
10

If you haven`t seen The Matrix your missing something. It has become the new
revolution in action/sci-fi thriller. A new born classic. See it and live
it! If you`ve liked Hacker you will love The Matrix. Not quite in same
branch but you recognize the computer gender of the movie.

******
25 January 2000
10

Sitting in the theater, I could tell this one would change movies forever.
From the opening scene to the final fight, this one could keep comatose
patients interested. The most visually stimulating motion picture of all
time.

******
24 January 2000
8

While not ranking among my top favorite films of all time, I thought this
was one of the better films of 1999, a lot better than your average
science-fiction / action / Chosen-One-saves-the-world flicks. The concept
behind the plot (how real is the world around us?) wasn't too new -- Philip
K. Dick and others have been there many times before --, but that doesn't
keep it from still being interesting. The same goes for the movie: even
though some of the plot elements were cleverly recycled from elsewhere, the
screenplay managed to present them in a new, refreshing, up-tempo, and
thrilling way (though I was a bit annoyed with the dumbo character who
betrayed the lot because he couldn't get the girl. I've seen this too many
times before, and it just didn't fit).The coolest thing about this film, however, was not the screenplay, and it
wasn't the special effects. It was the actors. Hugo Weaving gave me the
creeps as smooth, unscrupulous Agent Smith. Laurence Fishburne was cool
beyond belief, a walking enigma if I've ever seen one. Carrie-Anne Moss...
my God, what can I say...? I just *love* good-looking (and well-dressed)
women who kick butt. Even Keanu Reeves showed some decent acting, even
though he looked a bit too cute at times.A must-see if you're into action movies.

******
24 January 2000
10

The Matrix is a movie that combines a combonation of great actors
and
special effects. The directors are brilliant in this film, i had to see the
movie twice because the rush was so great, the sound track is excellent the
storyline leaves you thinking of all the possibilites of the scenes. Their
are hidden messages inside of the movie hinting at how Neo could be the
one.
The music whats on T.V. what the advertisements are in the backgrounds,
everything. The movie has the best special effects i have ever seen, the
best music, and some of the best acting. This movie rates a 10 on my list,
please watch this movie more than once to pick up all the little things in
the movie, enjoy it once more. See the world that you are living in The
Matrix.

******
23 January 2000
10
       I have not been so over joyed to watch a film like this in ages.It
takes you in a never lets go.The whole film seems like being trapped in a
video game.There is no blood in the shoot outs.Thats because nothing going
on is real.......The agents are awesome as they defend the matrix.The guns
and the lady in leather are awesome.I most say this was better than the the
phantom menace.I say it with true veal.I am one big sw fan and wanted a
little more from tpm.Where Lucas failed on 5/19/99 the matrix
rocked...................You need not only great,visuals,music,actors,sound
plot,mood,directors,script to have a classic.EACH MUST FLOW THROUGH THE
OTHER.The matrix is the greatest scifi film in twenty years period.Two more
films follow.I hope they show how the made guys operate and if the police
are computer simulations or other people locked in the
matrix.................

******
23 January 2000
10

I think "The Matrix" is a movie that is perfect in all perspectives.  The
movie provides an unique storyline that matches the visual effects and
action.  The first time I saw the film, I had no idea what it was about
and
was completely blown away with its creativity.  This movie could probably
be
the best action movie of all time that predicts the future of film.  By
now
you probably know that I am an avid fan of "The Matrix," but I guarantee
you
that you will not be disappointed if you see this movie.


******
22 January 2000
10

There ain't any other movie which can beat this in "imagined realism". This
can be true. Haven't yet found any idioms or fatal errors in it's logic.
Just great... This really is an easy movie to like. After watching this
movie you really know if your mind is wide enough to understand the
frightening possibility of "dea ex machina" (the machine god) and the
control of big brother. If you miss the link, you live in the Matrix...
deeply, sadly and forever...

******
22 January 2000
10

This movie is great, from the opening scene to the ending where he flies
above the city. My favorite scene is the fight between Neo and Agent Smith
on the roof of the building.
In short, this movie is really cool.

******
21 January 2000
10

"The Matrix"... That is kind of an original name. The Matrix is (besides
"The world that has been pulled over your eyes to blind you from the truth")
one of the best movies ever, and lets say that again: EVER!Some people say that The Matrix was not only great because of the action
scenes, but please!, lets not try to fool ourselves, this movie's action
scenes were probably the best ones in history.. so far at least. Of course,
with this I don't mean to say that the movie's script is bad, or that it has
a lack of something.I think The Matrix deserves to be considered one of the best movies ever by
reasons like this: Even the people who don't usually watch or like action
films, liked this one! And why is that? Simple answer: Because the movie is
simply extraordinary.I think Keanu Reeves has had a great career, but this movie moved him to the
top, he will now be remembered by everyone, along with the movie.. And his
look with the black outfit and the glasses is neat.I think Laurence Fishburne did a great performance too as Morpheus, and so
did Carry Anne Moss and Agent Smith.The story of this movie might be a bit out of reality (or completely
unbelievable), but this can't stop this movie from being one of the best
movies of the decade AND the whole century.I personally have watched this movie about 5 times, and the first 2 or 3,
every time I watched it, I discovered new things that I have not seen in the
previews one.Also I would like to say that this movie was very original, for example, at
the beginning, it doesn't show the names of any of the actors in it. Also
the sound effects were for sure the best ones I've ever heard. The sound
track is very good also.This movie deserves to be rated with the highest score possible, maybe more
than any other movie in this year, and that's why I'm giving it a 10 out of
10 score.If you have not seen The Matrix yet, don't waste your time, and see it!
After all the popularity it had, you might expect something very big, but
don't, please, because if you expect something that goes beyond the limits,
you might not like it, after all, it's just another movie.And remember that Unfortunately, no one can be told what The Matrix is...
You have to see it for yourself.


******
18 January 2000
10

I usually say that one shouldn't go into a movie with expectations, but with
an equal mind for what they might see.  I made the mental mistake of going
into the Matrix with very high expectations after having heard so many rave
reviews about the movie from my peers.Pleasantly enough, my expectations were met ten fold.  I'm glad that there
is finally a movie since the original star wars series (note: I say
original), that fantasy and sci-fi fans can point to with pride.  The movie
makes you think in a way that I believe I can safely say that you have never
thought before.  As you step out of the theater, or press 'Stop' on your
remote control, you'll question the reality that you live in.Maybe.  I did at least. =)  For the arguments against this movie.  If you're
complaining that the plot didn't make sense, I don't know what to say.  Go
and see the movie again.Enough said.  Go and see this movie for your own good, for making the muscle
inside your head flex.10 out of 10

******
17 January 2000
10

This movie is the quintessential film for expressing the plight of
teenagers
and their identity crises.  This movie would be nothing if it did not so
expertly express the emotions and situation of millions of teenagers.  Of
course, it's kick-ass special effects and awesome acting by Lawerence
Fishburne was spectacular too.  Thanks to the Wachowski Brothers for an
awesome two hours.

******
15 January 2000
9

The Matrix is the rare combination of plot, acting, special effects, and
action that appealed to me on a lot of different levels:  the whole
concept
of the "Matrix" made my head spin but didn't lose me, and the action
sequences were well executed and built on each other nicely.Lawrence Fishburn is warmly enigmatic, Kneau Reeves presents a nice
combination of confusion and cockiness, and I could have happily watched
Carrie-Anne Moss walk back and forth across the screen in her black outfit
for two hours.

******
15 January 2000
10

Possibly the best film since Blade Runner. Astounding visual effects and
excellent storyline. Corresponds beautifully to the "Hero Cycle" described
by scholar, Joseph Campbell.Abandon your preconceived notions about the intention and outcome of
"popular" films.  Allow the wonderfully written and acted Matrix to teach
you something new about the reality you're living in.I've seen it 12 times already (own three copies) and it just gets better
with every viewing. I always discover something new.
Must See This Film. Free your mind.

******
14 January 2000
10

This is probably the best movie in 1999! The big shootout is excellent, and
the fight scenes are great. It's got a intresting plot/story too. The
actors
do a good job and agent Smith is 1999 years best "bad guy"!
Overall the best action/sci fi i've ever seen!
(And much better than Star Wars Episode 1!)


******
13 January 2000
8

This film almost literally kicks you in the teeth to gain your attention.
Forget about all the blue pill/red pill, "What is the Matrix" nonsense,
which is all just a badly plotted excuse for some action.  And that is
where
the film excels.The camera work and effects blend together beautifully, sweeping around
people in the air and such like.  The dialogue is wonderfully cheesy at
times ("We need guns, lots of guns") but you really forgive all flaws when
the music kicks in and the next big action scene begins.There is one flaw too far though: Keanu Reeves really is awful, he
couldn't
act hurt if you kicked him in the groin.  This is the main annoyance about
an otherwise good-if-you-can-remove-your-brain sort of film.  Also,
remember, if your watching this at home expect to be disappointed unless
you
have a good sound set-up, it really isn't the same otherwise.


******
11 January 2000
9

A lot of people are going to think this film is original, which is
unfortunate, because it's not. It doesn't have anything new to say that
hasn't been said going back to Fritz Lang's silent classic "Metropolis". It
also takes itself way too seriously for a film that is really little more
than eye candy and popcorn.Its effects have been done before but just on this scale, which the film
should be commended for. However, the film feels like it was made with the
story servicing the effects and not the effects servicing the film. It's
like they had this idea for a really cool effect and figured out a story to
write around it. That combined with the fact that it can't decide if you
wants to be a pretentious drama or an action movie ultimately bogs the film
down under its own weight.Recommended for people that like mindless action only; for people that think
Lethal Weapon originated the buddy cop film and not The French
Connection.

******
8 January 2000
10

When you go to the movies, you always come into the darkness of the
projection place thinking about you have already seen everything, and well,
at least lets give this movie a chance.The Matrix changed everything, there was simply no way you could guess what
the movie come up with. I also think that maybe not other movie has
generated to much talk and analysis (personal and group) after the lights
got back.

******
8 January 2000
10

This has got to be one of the best sci-fi movies ever made. The special
effects are unbelievable.. Loved the scene where Keanue is dodging those
bullets... it was so cool. And who knew Keanu Reeves could kung fu fight
like that???  :) He could give Jackie Chan a run for his money..:) Who
knows, maybe we will see them teamed up together in a kung fu movie  :)
Wouldn't that be somewhat unexpected, even funny.. :) I just love a great
movie..  

******
8 January 2000
9

This was a pure sci-fi thriller. The lobby shootout was amazing, as with
the
specials effects. This film should beat the phantom menace for special
effects this year at the oscars, unless they screw up again. The plot kept
me awake and lawrence fishburne delivered an excellent performance as the
all-knowing morpheus. Some parts were pretty boring, so I give it 9/10.


******
7 January 2000
10

The Matrix, while not doing much for my dislike of Keanu Reeves, redefines
what I think Hollywood should be churning out, and that's two hours of
"Good
God this kicks butt!"Keanu plays Mr. Anderson, a name used to taunt him throughout. He is being
shown what is real... and what is not...Look, see it yourself, I can't describe this one enough. Too many kick
butt
special effects, with excellent acting from Reeves and Fishburne... top
notch.

******
7 January 2000
6

Excellent story. Unbelievable special affects. Awesome action scenes. And
down right evil bad guys. What else is there to say? Keanu Reeves and
Laurence Fishburne shine bright in this one. I give this movie a 9.6. I
can't wait until matrix 2 and 3 come out!

******
7 January 2000
10

I used to think that there would never be a film that would leave me so
completely overwhelmed and astonished on so many levels as a good novel
could.  No other movie can compare to such books as Sphere and The Hobbit.
However when I saw the Matrix this belief was instantly quashed.  It is
amazing in so many ways that my comments could not possibly do justice to
it.  I guess I'll start with the obvious.  The special effects.  These are
the most apparent on the first look.  All I can say to describe them is:
"WOW!"  The effects range from realistic explosions to surrealistic,
futuristic slow motion types of effects that create a feeling of
excruciating suspense while also pumping out fast paced action!  And what
action.  The actions scenes aren't those dull car chases and pointless
shootouts that turn me of 99% of action movies.  The action in this movies
has never been seen before.  Sure there is a "gunfight" but it isn't like
any gunfight EVER done before.  I'm not a big action fan because I find
action movies repetitive.  But the Matrix is anything but.  Whether your
John Q. Action or a despiser of action movies you'll probably be on the
edge
of your seat.  The next place that this film scores is in the
philosophical
and dramatic areas.  Many action movies are devoid of such sensibilities
but
the Matrix scores a direct hit.  It is amazing to me how a movie can
incorporate such intellligent themes into an action environment without
dragging on.  The Matrix is NEVER boring, even if your looking for a pure
action movie, and yet it encorporates so much higher thought that the
actions seems to be only secondary.  Finally: the biblical alusion.  Well,
when this was first suggested to me I thought it was just some crazy
freaks
looking for biblical allusion and finding it because they wanted to.  Boy
was I wrong.  The Matrix has biblical allusion out the wazoo!  You can
believe me because I'm a registered skeptic, and if I think there is
biblical allusion, there is biblical allusion.  I'll let you all figure it
out for yourselves, but for all you Christians out there, the many
references to the bible make this phenominal movie even better.  In all
this
film is so unbelievably good that I had to put it at the top of my list as
the best movie ever made.  If you like action, drama, sci-fi(by the way
this
movie IS NOT science fiction, at least not in the traditional sense), or
movies that make you think the Matrix is for you.  It is a very
intelligent,
thought provoking action movie with many Christian overtones.  You should
absolutely, without-a-doubt see this movie.  You will not regret
it!

******
5 January 2000
9

this movie was a lot fun to watch, no movie in 1999 or even in the last
decennium can surpass it! It's better than Jurassic Park, Star Wars, Jaws,
The Truman Show, Blade Runner, Return of the Jedi, Jumanji, etc. (i know
these movies don't have really much to do with each other, but this just a
list of my favorite films). The only film that is better, to me, than the
Matrix, is Raiders of the Lost Ark. I love Morpheus' voice and also the
things he says about the world how it will in two centuries, are very
interesting AND scary. That's what i liked about this film, it was really
frightening. The kung fu scenes are really entertaining and fast, and
Keanu's acting is at its best. Trinity is really cool, it's unusual to see a
woman shooting all the bad guys. Agent Smith is a really cool villain, he's
one of the meanest guys in film history (especially the voice is very
creepy). This film actually doesn't have one dull moment in it. Anyone who
hasn't seen it, doesn't know what he's missing.   

******
5 January 2000
8

I first saw the film soon after its released and was pretty awed by the
experience, but didn't think much about it afterwards.  It wasn't until I
saw it again on DVD that I began to notice its significance.  The Matrix
is
a true fusion of Eastern and Western genre film-making.  The story,
action,
and effects are an effective blend of the East (Zen Buddhism, martial
arts,
and strong females), and the West (Sci-Fi, CGI, and gunplay), and all done
in a very polished Western style.  I wouldn't as yet call it a classic,
but
if we still talk about it with the same ferver 10 years from now, as we do
today, then we probably have something. To criticize inconsistencies in
the
acting, parts of the story, or originality doesn't tell you about the film
as a whole package.  Genre classics such as Star Wars, Raiders of the Lost
Ark, or Blade Runner, were far from perfect in its parts, and derivative
in
concept, but the films seen as a whole are incomparable.  I have seen Dark
City and eXistenZ, both contemporaries in reality benders to The Matrix.
I
rate Dark City slightly above that of The Matrix in certain aspects of
story, and I love the film noir style of the movie, but The Matrix as a
whole just pushes the right buttons for me in entertainment value.  After
all, this is what movies are about, entertainment. From all the comments I
read on IMDB, we as movie goers chose two ways to watch a movie: 1) from a
wide-eyed, holistic approach, enjoying the ride, or 2) sucking on a lemon,
squeezing every bit of joy out of the movie experience.


******
4 January 2000
8

As technological advancements continue to rapidly grow, moviegoers are
provided access to even the most stunning of virtual effects. Multimedia
progression has allowed the movie industry to bring revolutionary amazement
to its audience. This brings us to the question `What is the
Matrix?'The Matrix sounds essentially complex but nonetheless brings us to its
simple premise. The film implies that our perception to reality is not what
it seems. It is only a systemized generated world controlled by computers
born in the wake of artificial intelligence. This system must be completely
destroyed in order to free humanity  and that goal lies upon `the
one'.Played by Keanu Reeves, Neo is the one that must gradually realize the
truth. But emancipating from the world he was suited is a challenge  a
formidable task to which humanity's liberation depends
upon.What we see next after realizing this concept is Neo's preparation and his
encounter with deadly foes called agents. The moments are shown in highly
technical virtual effects that viewers have never been seen. The film
becomes a revolutionary wonder with its amazing tricks. Digital slow
motioning of battle sequences is a phenomenal approach. But after a series
of remarkable battles to excite the audience, the film ends with a stunted
conclusion. Viewers are left in question what will happen  to Neo, the
agents and The Matrix.This brings me to an ending. What is the Matrix? Unfortunately, no one can
truly answer it because it remains indefinite. But for sure, The Matrix is
the precursor of an extension.

******
3 January 2000
10

An excellent and surreal movie.
Strong movie, good performances...
excelent..They all have an important part in the movie, as the story goes on and the
technologie makes its point,,.
Portugal also rules..

******
3 January 2000
9

I didn't watch this in the theaters because I didn't trust Keanu Reeves'
acting ability. Having watched the DVD, I completely forgot about it. I
remember thinking, "I'm blown away."The story is pure science fiction. It does play on man vs. machine deal,
which can get annoyingly boring if not done right (see Solo, 1996). Matrix
presents us with new camera techniques, Hong Kong style fight sequences
that
some may complain of being unoriginal, but they are in a league of their
own. It's the same delirious breathlessness I felt in Hard
Boiled.How many time did we wish we could learn to fly a helicopter, learn most
forms of kung fu, etc. in a few seconds?

******
2 January 2000
10

One question that will you will be asking yourselves throughout the movie
will be: What is the Matrix? I'm not here to tell you exactly what it is
(so
I don't know, but hey!) but I can tell you about what I mean by a "New Race
of sci-fi film."First of all, let's talk about the beginning of the film. The chase scenes
in the beginning (Trinity, the police and the Agent) are worth paying for
the cinema ticket alone. The special "Bullet Time" effects could be the
very
tip of the iceberg which can unleash a whole new way of filming and camera
angles.The government Lobby scene and the Kung-Fu scene unite Western and Eastern
filming; all four leading characters (Neo, Trinity, Morpheus and Agent
Smith) trained for 5 months with a group of Hong Kong martial arts trainers
and wirestunt-stunt men to allow them to attain the "natural" grace and
ability of Kung-Fu. It's not about how well the actor/ress APPEARS to
fight,
it's about how well the actor/ress KNOWS how to fight. The Matrix could be
just the start of combining the talents of both Western and Eastern filming
tactics to make the perfect movie. And The Matrix is just
that.

******
2 January 2000
10

I didn't know quite what to expect with this film after having heard mixed
reviews. I have to say that this is one of the best films that I have
watched for a long time. The camera work and the bullet-time special
effects
are excellent. Definately one to buy if you haven't already. I'll be
watching this again for sure!

******
1 January 2000
10

The mind-bending special effects alone make this movie worth watching. Just
as Industrial Lights and Magic changed the visual concept of sci-fi movies
with the Star Wars trilogy, THE MATRIX adds Bullet Time, a stunning new way
to move the perspective of the camera during a slow motion or time
compression or even a still frame shot, to film making. Above that THE
MATRIX is an action packed thriller starring that captures you from the
very
first scene and keeps you glued to your seat until the end. I predict that
it will reap quite a few Oscars at the next Academy Awards.

******
30 December 1999
10

Released at the same time (ish) as Star Wars Episode 1, it was predicted
that the Sci Fi effects fest of star was would capture the imagination of
all people. But no - the real star of 1999, and the best Sci-Fi film of the
90's is The Matrix, a fast moving, heart stopping visual treat, which keeps
you on the edge of your seat. Buy the DVD, there are some great extras on
it.
Top film, and it's not a NO BRAINER 

******
30 December 1999
10

You have  to  see  this twice,  not  only because it's  great. To  really
understand  it  you  have  see  it  at  least twice.
This movie really  does  have a  good  script  and  WONDERFUL special
effects. I  can't  say enough  good  things  about  this  movie,  and  I
have  nothing  bad  to  say. Carrie-Anne Moss  and  Laurence Fishburne
deliver superb performances and Keanu  Reeves  did  a  wonderful  job
acting  If  you  like  sci-fi  movies  this  is
the  movie  for  you.  Way  better  than  Jhonny Mnemonic! A  movie  to
bring  in  the  Millenium  with!!

******
30 December 1999
10

I thought that "The Matrix" was an amazing movie.  It was well balanced in
that it had something for almost every person.  It had enough action to
keep
someone who likes action fixed on the screen.  It was a science fiction but
it had it's moments where you wondered if what they were saying applied to
real life.  All around I thought this movie was very well rounded and
appealed to many people.

******
29 December 1999
8

   I had heard NOTHING but excellent reviews about The Matrix. People led me
to believe that this was one of those "11 out of 10's." It wasn't. Great
Special Effects. Bad Acting. Good Action. Awful Ending. Fine Story. Very
Good Movie. Keanu Reeves still hasn't learned how to act. And UGH! Neither
can Carrie-Anne Moss. Fishburne and Pantoliano are decent but that can't
cancel out the others. Still, originality, excitement, and entertainment
give this an 8/10 from me.

******
29 December 1999
8

i liked this flick a great deal (especially the fight scenes) but felt
that
the movie was about 20 minutes too long. a little tighter editing at the
beginning would have quickened the pace nicely in my opinion. being of big
fan of the wachowski brother's previous film BOUND, i find it great that
hollywood has embraced them without making them compromise their unique
cinematic visions. looking forward to the matrix 2!

******
29 December 1999
10

This has got to be the best sci-fi movie I have ever seen.
All the gfx effects are awesome.
And there is a great story as well.
This one you don't want to miss!

******
29 December 1999
10

On first viewing, this film wowed me with it's effects and eye candy
(Keanu
Reeves).  After repeated viewing (I'm heavily into eye candy) I have
become
more and more impressed with the acting (and voice) of Laurence Fishburn.
There are several places that the combination of LF's voice, acting and
the
camera work just stop me cold.  Those are the parts I will remember long
after I have moved on to the next/future favorite movie.I have a copy of the wide screen collectors version with shorts at the end
explaining how some of the effects were achieved.  Knowing how the effects
were produced has done nothing to reduce the 'sensawonda' I feel when
watching the film. 

******
28 December 1999
10

I thought that "The Matrix" was the most original film I've seen since
"Gattaca" and "La cité des enfants perdus" -- very thought-provoking,
incredible special effects, eclectic (and loud) soundtrack -- VERY dark
picture!  

******
27 December 1999
10

I think The Matrix is a great movie. It shows great special effects, a
great
plot, and has great stars. It shows great detail and they use special
effects wisely. It's based on a computer hacker that finds out he doesn't
really live in 1999, but around 2199. The world is really rubbish. The
Matrix is all of the people in separate tanks. The people are really asleep
in a kind of virtual reality, that simulates they are in 1999. Watch the
movie to find out what it's like. 

******
27 December 1999
10

The Matrix belongs definitely to my top 10 of all movies. Technically it's
awesome, but effects do not take the main role. The story is completely
logical, there's no reason why it could not be real. There's nothing
disturbingly wrong, watching it is pure enjoyment. Every time I watch it I
find more interesting details about it. Brilliant piece of art! Can't wait
to see the other two episodes of the trilogy. 99 out of 100
points.

******
26 December 1999
10

A classic..will set the standard for any cyberVR films..
brilliant choreography..not for the faint of heart..Matrix
is hard SF at it's best..not afraid to broach moral dilemmas.
a complement to any intelligent filmgoer...

******
26 December 1999
10

Martial art is not only a set of limb motion. Behind it there is an
intergrated philosophy, dealing with the relation between human and
nature,
between mind and body, between the contrast and switchness of positive and
negative, hardness and suppleness, exterial strength and internal
potential.
To be a real Kung Fu master, you have to be a philosopher.As a Chinese guy, I grow up with Hong Kong Kung Fu movie. Only a few of
them
reach this depth. So I had suspected any western director can perceive it.
I
was wrong. 'Matrix' do it, and do it brilliantly, though through a
different
way.

******
25 December 1999
10

Many see The Matrix as simply a rush of mind-bending special effects, but
that is just an added bonus to the plot and cast.  This movie brings
together action and science-fiction in a well blended mixture sure to send
your senses into overdrive.  Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne give
terrific performances as Neo and Morpheus, respectfully.  Carrie-Anne Moss
does an excellent job playing Trinity, and she will become invaluable to
Hollywood to years to come.  Hopefully all three will reappear for the
announced sequels to this 1999 blockbuster.

******
23 December 1999
10

It was a movie that was not boring ones.
The actors where at there best.
And the special effects where great to.
It was one of the best movie's i seen
http://zap.to/mexx

******
22 December 1999
10

Reeves and Fishburne takes this film to another level, not yet achieved by
another movie. I will say that Matrix will live for many years as one of
the
greatest movies ever. When I saw it the first time I was paralyzed by the
stunning effects and excellent acting. I wouldn't rate this film as a 10
but
more like 12 or 13."Do you dare believe it's true?"

******
20 December 1999
10

For those of you who think that the story line for The Matrix is totally
original, then allow me to enlighten you. The script is a 'wrapped up'
version of Buddhist philosophy.In Buddhist philosophy, the world as we perceive it through our senses is
merely an illusion. Nothing really exists as we perceive things to be. This
is synonymous to 'The Matrix'. Neo who is 'The One' is synonymous to the The
Buddha who has discovered the way to see things as they really are.'The Truth' is the truth of seeing things as they really are. 'The Training'
is Vipassana or Insight Meditation whereby the mind is concentrated and
trained to penetrate reality into its constituent components. 'The One',
comes into his own when he experiences the constituents. That is when Neo
sees the reality behind the facade.The scary thing is that we are living in a 'Matrix' (samsara). It is not in
the future but has been with us since the dawn of time. However, there is
light at the end of the tunnel as there is a way out.Nevertheless, it is a good film.

******
17 December 1999
9

I've seen this film five times on the big screen now within a few weeks (I'm
an operator) and I still love it. So what if some details are wrong,  so
what if the romantic touch is boring and predictable. It has plenty to
compensate. Hugo Weaving is the perfect villain, slithery and mean, the
fighting sequences are among the best ever to be made outside of Hong Kong,
the visuals are astounding. But what is most important: it still held my
attention the fifth time. There are a lot of great films that are still
pretty good a second or even a third time. After that most of them sort of
lose their magic, only to regain it after not seeing it for at least a year.
The Matrix had me sitting on the edge of my
seat every single time within only a few weeks. That's what makes a great
film.

******
17 December 1999
10

This film is by far the best film of 99. Anyone who thinks otherwise is
wrong. Keanu Reeves delivers his best performance yet with the possible
exception of Speed. I hear that a lot of people have been comparing this
film to Bladerunner which, in my opinion, is a consistently overrated
film.
I believe that The Matrix will be hailed as a classic well into the new
Millenium.

******
17 December 1999
9

The Matrix is an amazing film.  Everything about it is so high-class and
polished.  The Matrix is a scifi/action movie, and the story focuses on
telling us what the Matrix is.  I won`t spoil this massive movie for the
poor souls, who haven`t seen it yet.  The actionscenes are amazing, it takes
the classic style of John Woo, and adds the sci-fi element: the characters
are now able to run up against a wall while they are shooting.
"Unfortunately nobody can be told what the Matrix is, you`ll have to see it
for yourself".
9/10

******
17 December 1999
7

I've heard people saying this was "such an original story".  It wasn't
Other than that, I would have to say I enjoyed this movie from start to
finish.  Keanu Reeves is great, and the effects and camera direction were
very well done.  I would suggest this to any Sci-Fi fan, but I would also
add a recommendation for Ghost in the Shell.

******
16 December 1999
8

This movie makes your eyes pop out of your head at least a dozen times,
but
the concept behind the storyline and the plot itself are lacking.  It
moves
well, but if you want good conceptual SF you're not going to find it here.
I still rated this an 8, but if the script was cleaned up a bit, it could
have been higher.

******
16 December 1999
10

This theory about life, has made such an impact, that it looks it could
easily be the truth. The special effects are perfect for the story. The
story line pulls you from frame 0 till the last frame. A
classic!

******
15 December 1999
10

I guess i have to start up with the word WOW. Or maybe breathtaking is a
better word to describe this futuristic action/thriller. The story is
unique, the actors and actresses are unique and the special effects are more
than unique. A lot of hard work was put into the making of the film. Keanu,
and the others had to work closely with the maker of Jet Lee's "Fist Of
Legend" for about 4 months so that it would look like they could fight! That
is truly fantastic. I would like to participate in the next two Matrix
movie!!!! Thank you for making this movie:)


******
15 December 1999
10

The Matrix has to be one of the best movies ever created.  With it's
groundbreaking special effects, and wild plot it keeps the viewer riveted to
their seat for the entire film.  If you haven't seen it already, you don't
know what you're missing.  I personally own around 50 movies and this one
has to rank amongst the top 5 movies that I own.  DON'T MISS THIS
MOVIE!

******
13 December 1999
10

This movie is one of the best movies I've ever seen. It's really got
everything you could ever ask. Thrill, excitement and action!One other point, and a rather big one, is that this movie doesn't rely on
special effects. All the FX are a part of the movie.This movie is a masterpiece, and should be treated as one. Rent it, watch
it, buy it! :)

******
12 December 1999
8

n extremely well-done piece of work, which is very enjoyable if you allow
yourself to suspend your disbelief.  Great performances by all involved,
even Reeves (who makes up in spades for "Johnny Mnemonic") and especially
Hugo Weaving, Laurence Fishburne and Carrie Ann Moss.  Brilliant use of
special effects which should win the Academy Awards hands down (but might
suffer from being an April release.  Great set design, brilliant
cinematography.The move also has, without revealing too much, tons of science fiction and
martial arts jokes and references (for those who have seen the movie, think
of: the two pills, the White Rabbit, the dojo scene).  Also this movie is a
weird pleasure for Chicagoans, as all of the street references are Chicago
streets (though there is no subway at Lake and Wells).  The movie was
filmed
in Sydney, but could be anywhere (though Sydney does appear to have some
weird skyscrapers).Highly recommended.

******
12 December 1999
8
Sci-Fi has been an on-going stimulation in my life.Forgive me, but I think "Dr.Who", for example, is super-stimulating,
let alone fore-casting . . .David Lindsay's (1897-1945) "A Voyage To Arcturus", which so influenced
C.S.LEWIS, I found by accident in a book sale, and 'got me going' in my
appreciation of so many wonderfully stimulating writers of the genre.This is not to overlook an astonishing array of writers and film
makers, past and present. I feel fortunate indeed to have lived in an
age of such amazingly intelligent imagination, encompassing both the
macrocosm and the microcosm, as well as astonishing technical and
applied skills - both east & west.The MATRIX, as I have experienced it, successfully embraces a wide
range of heart-felt interests and concerns. I found myself very much at
ease after the experience of seeing it on the big screen. Well done,to
say the very least.May I share one reaction?Do you remember in "AMADEUS", when Mozart is graciously told by the the
Prince Arch-Duke of Austria, in response to one of his Operas, that
there were, simply, "Too many notes"?Well, forgive me again, but my first reaction to the Trailers of
"MATRIX" was, "TOO MANY BULLETS!"Notwithstanding this quibble, and allowing the films appeal to a wide
audience, "MATRIX" has set an high standard for the future. I find it
full of good things! It has opened to me a door to the the future! It
has done this, in my in-expert opinion, remarkably well . . ..More, please!May I express my gratitude for this opportunity to express my reaction
to 'MATRIX'Every best wish for the festive season,JOHN CAMPBELL.

******
12 December 1999
10

One of the best films ever, dazzling special effects, occasionally
beautiful
cinamatography, and first rate hong kong action. This was a cyberpunk film
at its greatest, all the references to destroying the system, the
nihilistic
symolism. The pounding soundtrack went amazingly well with all the great
action sequences. This movie must be seen by anyone who likes sci-fi,
action, martial arts or cyberpunk movies. It is like blade runner meets
face
off.

******
11 December 1999
8

This is such a fast-moving movie that important details
tend
to be overlooked on the first viewing.  It made much more
sense
and I picked up a lot of the details necessary to understand this film on
the second viewing.  It was certainly worth the time however.  Usually the
viewer has some inkling of the reality in the film, even if the actors
don't, but this movie keeps the viewers in the dark sometimes--thrilling,
frustrating
and even confusing the viewer.  An interesting effect, at some points I
wondered whether the actors were in the matrix or not, kept me on the edge
of my seat.  One only needs to mention in passing the special effects--they
are superb.  Watch this one a few times before passing judgment on
it.

******
11 December 1999
9

The Wachosky brothers bring us the Blade runner of the 90's . Actionpacked
Philosofickly full and special effects wide .
Keanou reaves more than makes up for the weak Johny Mnemonic .If you are openminded , be prepared for loads of entertainment . Thinkers
might adore the first part of the movei and FX fans the battles will keep
you more than stunded . Everybody get ready for a total mindteaser . The
success of this filf is good acting , great storyline but also greatlly
detailed special fx . The only problem is that it still cant get off
certain
cliches . E.g the hero is killed but because of a kiss he is brought back
to
life . Still this is one of the best movies of the decade . View or Die
:)

******
11 December 1999
8

Reeves is a computer hacker who  experiences the matrix,because
Fishburne believes that Reeves may be the one.Exciting sci-fi action film
is
filled with incredible effects including the lobby shootout.The cast is
great & Hugo Weaving steals the show.The DVD is terrific.Seeing this movie
once is not enough.Rating:****1/2 (out of five)Rated R for sci-fi violence & brief language  

******
11 December 1999
8

At first, I was pretty hesitant about a science fiction film with Keanu
Reeves, of all actors.  But the movie actually turned out to be one of the
best science fiction films that isn't Star Wars, or Star Trek.Lawrence Fishburne adds respectability to the cast, and the plot, though
confusing at first, is pretty cool and original.The best thing about the movie is the special effects and the impressive
martial arts fights.  The two main ones, where Fishburne and Reeves square
off, and where Reeves meets one of the agents, were choreographed by the
same guy who does the Jet Li scenes, were some of the best work i've seen
done in an american film.All in all, a very entertaining film, i don't think sci-fi flicks were
meant
to be criticized.  You either like em or you don't.  And i thought this one
was pretty cool.

******
10 December 1999
10

A modern masterpiece, to coin a well overused phrase, but not out of place
with this movie.This film has one of those unique qualities that so few films have, it makes
you leave the cinema with a feeling of sheer excitement, you feel ready to
take on anything and you could, if only the Matrix were
real!With amazing special effects, created months prior to scenes being shot, and
looking extremely stylish, it delivers everything that you'd expect, and
more, an interesting plot. Yes, there is a plot, and although it's way out
there, I couldn't help but overlook the far fetched ideas and leap headlong
into the Matrix. It challenges all our beliefs about our way of life, and by
the end of the film you can almost argue yourself into thinking it could all
be true!Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss are fantastic, whereas Keanu Reeves
is just his usual bewildered character - although in this film it works
perfectly. Hugo Weaving, as Agent Smith, is superb, a fantastic love-to-hate
character. The way he and Fishburne talk and act throughout this film is
just pure cool - I found myself imitating them continuously
afterwards.Go see this film, or rent it on DVD. Only word of advice though is make sure
you watch it with Digital soundtrack and surround speakers - it'll blow you
away.

******
10 December 1999
10

There are very few movies that actually make you think "what if..." after
you see them. This would definatly have to be one of them. The Matrix not
only has the BEST special effects of this century (Star Wars 1 was pitiful
compared to it,) but it have one of the best storylines of all time. It has
you leaving the theater asked yourself "what if..."

******
9 December 1999
7

What else can I say.....it's a good movie but not great like I heard most
people say it was.  I know, everybody else is calling it a "deep" movie that
will change the way you look at the world around us.....but I gotta tell ya,
it was just another sci-fi actioner to me. And let's face it, Keanu Reeves
has about as much acting talent as Steven Seagal.  But that's okay as long
as he sticks to action films and doesn't try to breakout into more serious
fare.  Anyways, good action, good special effects=good sci-fi action movie. 
I've seen better in the same genre, such as Blade or Soldier.
agree?  Disagree?  feel free to E-Mail me at Crossroads_18@yahoo.com

******
9 December 1999
10

This movie was incredible!  It had a great plot, great special effects,
great actors, great stunts, you name it, they had it!  The idea that we
are
all slaves to a computer is very thought provoking.  If you like Sci Fi,
Action, Thriller, Japanimation, or anything else like it, SEE THIS
MOVIE!!

******
8 December 1999
8

l have seen this movie 9 times in the theater, and saw five times more on
VHS. yes..I love this film.
When I first went into the theater, I didn't know anything but Keanu
reeves
stars. the movie wasn't the one that I'd expected, but for me(I am a bad
sci-fi, John woo action addictor)it was really cool. although it was a bit
bored and has a thing of corny, as much as l viewed it got me in awe.actually 'the one' who made me watch this movie so many times like this
was
"Agent Smith"-Hugo Weaving.
I just blown away by his everything. he was the one of the best villains
that I've ever seen on screen in recent movie history.(alongside "Hannibal
Lector")
some people hate Keanu's wooden acting, It was.. yes..but I doubt any
other
actor could achieve that role so naturally like him.In spite of some bad reviews, it's obvious that this movie "the one"
which
open the new sci-fi film world.

******
7 December 1999
10

I viewed this movie about fifteen times and I could watch it over and over
again.  this is the best movie I've ever seen.  Everything in this master
piece was good.  The special effects were very good, the story was perfect
and the actors gave us a great performance.  It was as good as Star Wars.
Congratulation to the Wachowski brothers.  A very good movie for the
brain

******
5 December 1999
9

Thought provoking, entertaining, new, fresh, a very great film. Superb
special effects that serve the story, not vice versa.I don't quite buy all of the symbolism attested to in these pages, but a
film like this lets you draw your own conclusions.See the film, search your own heart. Have you found Neo for
yourself?

******
5 December 1999
9

Ok, I admit, after seeing the trailers and marketing hype to get me to the
theatre, I didn't want to waste my time.  It seemed to be just another
movie
where most of the budget had been spent on special effects, and a few
actors
with name recognition in order to bring in the bucks.I had time on weekend, and a friend was interested, so I went anyway.  I
was
taken completely by surprise.Yes, there were lot's of special effects.  Yes, there was the set of
actors
there with name recognition.  But, to my surprise was a solid plot, and
credible, solid acting to make it believable and interesting.Keanu Reeves stars as Neo, a computer programmer who is also a hacker
finds
that his life is not what it appears when a team of people, led by
Morpheus(played by Laurence Fishburne) rescue him from
Pseudo-Reality.The combination of a well written action adventure, with stellar special
effects, great direction and cinematography and a cast that makes it
believable and real makes this film the best action science-fiction movie
since Blade Runner.


******
4 December 1999
9

How could a revolution be in technology age. It could be individual of
course. The one who access the reality will be enlightened and guide him (or
her)self. Rising to air without a machine? Why not if intended to do so.
This film has a genuine revolutionary, anarchist theme. The government,
police and the whole system with all the human beings are condemned.
Especially the humans who obey and do their individual affairs are primary
enemies. This film makes us think about many things about our
civiization.

******
3 December 1999
7

Although the Matrix is an entertaining movie there was something missing
from the film that i could not quite put my finger on. Perhaps the Storyline
was a little too confusing or perhaps i was expecting Better special effects
, i don't know.
The Matrix all in all is a good film without living up to some of the hype
the papers indulged in. The Acting is good but not Brilliant while the
storyline showed so much promise but it did not deliver. I still can't
understand where the ship was that they were living in.Perhaps we wasn't
supposed to know.
7 out of 10.

******
1 December 1999
9

The Matrix is not a perfect movie.  I thought the religious symbolism was a
little amateurish and I didn't really buy into the evil robots using
humanity as a power source plot.  And if Morpeus said "He is the One!" once
more I would have walked out of the theatre.However, despite these flaws The Matrix is easily one of the best action
films of recent years.  It accomplishes this mainly by style.  The Brothers
Wachowski live up to the promise of Bound and prove that they see things in
an atypical way.  Every frame of the Matrix is saturated with their own
unique vision and style.  This makes the Matrix a good cut above the
manufactured and overly processed studio entries over the past few years
(from Wild Wild West to the horrible End of Days).  Audiences are tired with
convention and the success of the Matrix is proof of that.And, of course, the Matrix features the best kung-fu choreography outside of
Hong Kong.  The Brothers Wachowski really know how to make a fight scene
look good with nice flowing camerawork and numerous long shots.  I, for one,
like to know what's happening in my action scenes--enough of that rapid
editing and those idiotic extreme close-ups!

******
1 December 1999
7

My husband and I are Science Fiction types and we found this film excellent
from that angle.  It was reminiscent in places of a couple novels or short
stories we have read but with a twist that was intriguing.  I also saw some
tones of a religious bent, the good being attacked by the evil aliens and
how different reality is once released from the safe world.  I am not
impressed with violence for violence sake or even violence for special
effects sake and here the movie falls in my opinion.  I hope there will be a
sequel with more work on the theme of which world is better, the real or the
protected cocoon.

******
30 November 1999
9

"What is the Matrix?" "Unfortunately, no one can be told what the Matrix is.
You have to see it for yourself.". It is a visual experience. The only thing
I can say is that The Matrix is the fiction of the 21st Century, an
extremely original cybernetic adventure that concerns a real world and a
virtual world, the human kind and the artificial intelligence. A motion
picture with astonishing visual effects that transport us to a dream world,
a world where anything is possible. Do you still want to know what the
Matrix is? "The answer is out there (...) and it's looking for you, and it
will find you if you want it to.". And believe,  you will. "It's the
question that drives us." So, what are you waiting for? Go and watch this
movie. "What you know you can't explain, but you feel it."End of transmission....


******
30 November 1999
10

Well what can I say thats not been said before,  this film was much better
then Star Wars PM hands down.  At first the plot got me lost but come midway
though it all fits into place like a big jigsaw.  Its about time we had a
classic SC-FI like Matrix, Matrix was like a sleeping gaint it caught
everyone by suprise.  I would recommend this everytime over Star Wars
PM.

******
30 November 1999
10

The Matrix was the best movie I have ever seen. I gave it a 10/10. If you
haven't seen it yet, I suggest you see it now. The acting in it was
incredible and the effects were outrageous. It is a definite MUST SEE!!!!
The producers and those people picked the right actors I don't know of
anyone who could have acted out "Neo" better than Keanu Reeves. THE MATRIX
WAS WITH NO DOUBT MOVIE OF THE YEAR!!!!

******
29 November 1999
10

I have seen this movie more than three times now and I'm planning to buy
the
video (and you have to believe me: I don't buy many videos,but I'm willing
to make an exception for "The Matrix" ). In my eyes, this movie is the
ULTIMATE S-F movie ! It has everything a good movie needs: EXCELLENT,
REMARKABLE plot, special effects, action scenes, drama...This movie is a real mindjob....I don't understand why this movie has not got more attention. It is WAY WAY
better then the new Star Wars !!!

******
26 November 1999
8

Well, I heard a lots of bad stuff about The Matrix, and i heard a lots of
good stuff. I think is just great. It has a very interesting the theme
that
has touched the movie. Who knows if is real this world? But I don't think
this is the important part. We all have seen many love movies, and they
might be good movies. But in visual effects, this is real art!! Why should
just be romantic movies be considered as a good movie? Okay, probably the
interpretations of The Matrix are not the ones at the Schindler's list.
But
the visual effects makes that movie an important. Because made what cinema
was made for. ENTERTAIN! And sure that the movie got this
part!

******
24 November 1999
10

This is one heck of a movie. Sure, Keanu Reeves has little if no acting
skills, and quite a few parts of the movie run slowly...This movie is
still
a landmark to movie making skills by the brotherly directors. Packed with
philosophy, action, mystery,and break through special effects this movie
can
not hold itself back. The sequels should be really interesting, and I
think
it would be great if the movie would explain more about the theory of the
matrix more (but keep up the action, boys!). Overall, you are in for a fun
treat packed with all of the above.
Oh and a little note to whoever will cast the sequels: The new female
action
star of the matrix...who else but Buffy! The words Sarah Michelle Gellar
and
tight action suit go soooo smoothly together! If you catch my
drift!

******
24 November 1999
8

really good movie - with an original idea and high
professional/technological
realization, but...
the unreal/not logical happy end makes you (almost) forget about all the
good sides of that movie...

******
24 November 1999
6

I'm surprised that this movie has been ranked so high on the All Time Top
250.  While I enjoyed the movie and consider the plot quite original, I
certainly don't think it deserves to be rated the 33rd best movie of all
time.  In fact, based on a scale for measuring movie quality, I would
place
"The Matrix" closer to "Twister" than "The Godfather".  Again, it isn't
that
I disliked the movie but let's be real.  "The Matrix" is nothing more than
a
very original and well done action movie.

******
24 November 1999
10

This movie was awesome!  Even though I didn't completely get the story I
thought the fight scenes and action was the best I've ever seen!  The
slow-motion Kung Fu stuff was really cool.  The way they did that, it was
hard to figure out how they made digital stuff look so real. 


******
20 November 1999
8

I absolutely LOVE this movie!  It's definitely the best I've seen this
year.
It's going to be hard to wait for the second installment, which will
hopefully parallel the success of Star Wars' sequels.  The special effects
are never enough by themselves; this movie had a great story which the
effects only enhanced.

******
19 November 1999
10

I thought that this was a really good movie.  I especially liked the lobby
scene.  My friends and I talk about this movie all the time.  I think that
females like it more because of Keanu but thats not why I like it.  I just
like good action movies.

******
18 November 1999
9

Watched it for second time last night on PPV.   Very good flick, well
thought out and very sci-fi.   Better the second time around since the plot
is so complex.   Not too violent, not too sexual, but don't let the kids
watch.

******
18 November 1999
8

"The Matrix" is a stunning achievement in both the science fiction genre as
well as visual effects.  The movie, visually, is simply without flaw.  The
"bullet time" photography, backgrounds, lighting, everything point to a
great time of care and effort.  Character wise, the movie fares just about as well, although I found
Lawrence Fishburn's Mephesto to be a bit overly dry.  Keanu Reeves returns
from exile to star as Neo, a programmer by day and hacker at night.  He is
suddenly drawn into a rebellion against the matrix, or what we know as the
world.  Little does he know that he is the one of prophecy, the one who will
set mankind free.Carrie-Anne Moss is wonderful in her role, its nice to see a strong female
lead who is both sexy and strong at the same time.  Her character of Trinity
is one of the strongest female role models currently on
film.Lawrence Fishburn plays Mephesto, the head of the resistance movement and
the one who finds Neo and brings him into the movement.  His acting is good,
but his presence is a bit dry.  He acts a bit overly serious, like he is
truly a messiah.  He doesnt detract from the movie at all, but I felt he
tended to overplay the role a bit.Supporting cast: an A....all strong characters and central to the storyline.
 Tank in particular, as he was the controller of travel between the "real
world" and the matrix.You might notice I havent talked much about what the matrix is...lets face
it, there are some of us out there who havent seen this yet, and its really
difficult to explain...I dont feel like ruining the "surprise" of the movie
for anyone.  Suffice it to say that this review doesnt really
exist.."The Matrix" is a spellbinding film...full of rich visuals and wonderful
characters.  Do yourself a favor and see this one soon4 1/2 out of 5

******
17 November 1999
10

The greatest story
I have
ever seen in
american movie...

******
16 November 1999
9

I went into the movie theater to see The Matrix because I had nothing
better
to do.  I really had no idea what the movie was about, and didn't care for
that matter.  I especially hate most of Keanu Reeves' movies outside of a
couple.  So I could've never envisioned that The Matrix would have been one
of the best movies of the year, second only to Fight Club.
The plot is just about impossible to explain.  The buildup for the movie
included nobody saying what the matrix was, that you had to see it for
yourself.  I thought this was a catchy tagline, but it ends up it was true.
A truly intriguing plot, that makes you think and a great soundtrack
combine
to make a great film.  It also contains one of the greatest action
sequences
of all time.  If you are a fan of sci-fi or action, you have to see The
Matrix.

******
15 November 1999
10

Now I've seen this film 3 times and each time I learn and understand more
about it. I don't know why it captures me so. It makes me think about the
world we live in and our place in it. The creators have imagined a totally
plausible alternate plane of existence that these characters exist in and
makes you wonder if we are all being pulled by some invisible strings. I for
one liked Keanu Reeves performance, it needed to be understated because of
what is about to be thrust upon him. The special EFX are outstanding and
Carrie-Ann Moss is out of this world (Cool leather duds). I will be watching
this film again and I can't wait for Matrix 2.

******
15 November 1999
10

What can be said about the Matrix.  It was recommended to me, heavily, by my
best mate, after he had basked in all it's glory, so I was tempted to go and
see it, and by the next day I was sat in my seat, with my popcorn and coke,
raring to go.I had read in several magazines and newspaper reviews that this film was
gonna be good, and boy were they right.I practically chocked on my own drool as I observed some of the most
breathe-taking effects ever, (well, except the Phantom Menace) and sweated
over one of the most interesting and original plots I'd seen in a long time.Keanu was wicked, in surely his best performance since Speed, and Laurence
Fishbourne was perfect as Morpheous.  The rest of the cast did there part,
well, and kept me enthralled so much that I forgot about my popcorn (well,
for about 40 minutes).The pumping soundtrack, incredible graphics, effects, acting and storyline
have made this one of the most popular films in a long time, and I, and I'm
sure you too, cannot wait for the next two installments of the matrix...And as for the question "What is the matrix?"  I will tell you that it is
one of the best sci-fi films ever, so go and enjoy it, now...!Rating, 10 out of 10, of course!!

******
15 November 1999
10

I only got to see "the matrix" once at the cinema, and how I regret it. I
am
going to get this the minute it is released, the action sequences and
special effects are breath taking. The whole idea of the movie is
brilliant,
combined with the script and the immaculate detail make "The matrix" easily
one of the best movies ever made. It is absolutly stunning, and anyone who
writes it off should be put in a straight jacket and stuck in a mental
home.
Stunningly amazing is an understatement. 

******
14 November 1999
10

That film is simply amazing!!!!!
I saw it 3 times on movies and two more at home...
Every time gets it better!!!
Fantastic!

******
14 November 1999
10

This is one of the best movies of all time. How one may walk away from this
flick unmoved is beyond me.Everything you know in life, even as you read this right now, is a result of
the facts reported to you by your five senses. If life is fated, or a test,
or a lesson...there is no need for those in control to actually create a
physical world. They could simply manipulate these five input sources to
create a world in your mind. You would never know the difference. This movie
is a complete trip through the philosophical possibilities of
life/reality... it has the audacity to pose big questions, and more
importantly, it asks these questions within the scope of a tight and
stunning visual escapade.You've never seen a movie like this one, its the antithesis of cheese. Its
beautiful, its loud, its colorful, and its hypnotic. Watch this movie with
an open mind, and see the world with fresh eyes.


******
14 November 1999
10

This movie is just the most awesome that I've ever seen. It not only shows
great special effects, but also gives a very good story-line. I find it
very
amazing, that the actors even had to learn kung-fu for "The matrix", it
just
makes everything more realistic. I've watched it about 15 times now, and
I'm
gonna watch it again and again. The idea of not being in the real world is
a
thought that probably everyone of us already had before someday in our
lives. This makes this so realistic.
I hate deja vu's. Now I know, why.


******
12 November 1999
10

This movie has it all for action and sci-fi lovers -- great action
sequences, cool soundtrack and a very cool story storyline. The acting is
even enjoyable.I highly recommend this movie to anybody who likes action/sci-fi. This is
one of the best.

******
12 November 1999
9

Excellent acting by Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne.  This movie
brings
a relation with Jesus-Christ; Some people in our world dream to become the
chosen one after the Apocalypse.  The special effects are very good.  Lot
of
action too.  It's a good movie with a good scenario.  Enjoyable.

******
11 November 1999
10

The Matrix is an incredible movie and destined to be one of my favorites.
The action, acting, story are great but by far, the most amazing aspect is
how it parallels that of a Christian walk of life, from realizing what the
world really is to dealing with it all and letting others know.  From the
Matrix being the world as we know, one which is filled with things from
worldly obsessions to keeping busy.  Both the "Matrix" and the world keep
us
blinded from the real truth.  Neo represents a man who has realized that
something is wrong with the world.  At first he wants to know what it is,
when he realizes it he finds that he doesn't want to believe it.  He's been
tricked his entire life.  The story goes on through his transformation.
Other parallels would be Agent Smith-Satan, the tempter (as we all know he
does in the movie), Sypher-betrayed everyone as did Judas Iscariot.  There
is an incredible amount more, it's amazing.  99% of the movie has something
to do with the Christian walk and those involved.  I suggest next time you
watch it to keep your eyes and mind open.  

******
9 November 1999
9

First of all I want to disagree with some other people's reviews on IMDb.
One person said that this movie had bad acting and bad special effects. Bad
special effects!? I'm not a giant fan of this CGI stuff but if you think
the
effects in this movie are bad you're blind (see the bullet-time scene
again). The acting was great except for Keanu Reeves, but give him a
break -
he tried his best.The flaws I saw were not that important to other people, but almost ruined
it for me. The violence was totally unrealistic. When people get shot they
bleed, and out of the all the people that are shot in this movie I only saw
one person bleed. Now I'm not all into seeing people getting mutilated when
they get shot in movies, but I thought that needed to be shown. The only
other thing was the characters always spoke in metaphors which can get VERY
annoying after a while. Other than that you have a high quality movie with
great action sequences, good acting, excellent special effects, and a great
(but unoriginal) plot. You'll have a great time watching this
movie.My rating: ***1/2 stars out of ****

******
8 November 1999
10

The Matrix was the most action packed sci-fi movie of the decade. I had
never been a Keanu Reeves fan before this movie.
Reeves and Fishburne are a great dual.  The story of the
Matrix
was awesome.  I recommend watching the flic twice to fully understand the
story.  The suspence in the last 25 minutes of the movie was very intense.
The action scenes were by far the best ever.  I would recommend this movie
to any sci-fi, action lover out there.

******
7 November 1999
9

yeah! I'm finally registered! Anyway, now that I am, I just wanted to say
that buying that large-screen TV was worth it when I saw The Matrix at
home... Oh! Great! Oh, and if you're like me, and in a Philosophy class,
all
the allusions doubly stick out! And if you're not, Keanu Reeves is worth
watching =)So, as they say, have fun just following the white rabbit down
the rabbit hole!!!

******
5 November 1999
10

Very Exciting! In a summer filled with Star Wars this movie held its own and
then some. Packed with breath taking visual effects and electrifying martial
arts sequences combined with an outstanding storyline The Matrix is where
movie making is headed in the next century. Lawrence Fishburne is the one to
watch out for in this. Although Keanu Reeves did a pretty good job I do not
expect too many praises from this performance. This movie has it all
though,(except for a love scene) I thorough enjoyed this
movie.

******
5 November 1999
10

     The Matrix is, quite frankly, one of the best movies ever made. It is
certainly the best big-budget action movie of 1999 and possibly the best
film of the entire decade (90s).      Keanu Reeves plays Neo, a mild mannered computer programmer by day,
hacker genius by night. He has been consumed by finding Morpheus and
uncovering the truth about the Matrix for as long as he can remember.
Morpheus is the leader of a rebel force of humans who are trying to expose
the truth of the Matrix and battle mega-computers who guard and protect it.  
     The actors do a great job with their roles, the plot is believable (at
least to conspiracy theorists) and not riddled with enough holes for the
Titanic to sail (or sink) through, and the special effects are incredible.
When it all comes together, you have a basically flawless movie that really
entertains.      So how do I describe the Matrix? To quote Morpheus, "You have to
experience it for yourself".

******
5 November 1999
9

I gave this movie a 9 out of 10.This has to be one of the best science fiction movies I have ever seen. It
has great acting, great sets, great action, great themes, great sound, and
most importantly a great story. Background:I am a 24 year old male engineering and computer science student living in
SC. I do have a large humanities background.Overview:This review will be hard to do, since I don't want to reveal anything to
you. This is one of those movies where you want to find out everything for
yourself, like The Sixth Sense. But I can tell you this is an outstanding
masterpiece of the science fiction genre. It will definitely be a classic
for a long time.The level of detail is amazing. For example, they went through the entire
movie and filtered out a lot of the blue and changed it to green. Blue is
too happy of a color they said. All of the sets have extreme levels of
detail. It is almost to the point like in one of the Star Trek movies the
screws on the Klingon weapons had little Klingon symbols cut out of them to
screw them in even though nobody would ever be able to tell. That's the
level of detail we are talking about here.The sound is incredible. I got the DVD version and got to listen to it in
Dolby Digital Surround sound and it was almost as good as when I saw it at
the theaters in THX. If you have a good home theater system then I recommend
this DVD to put it through the paces for you. It really shows off the range
and power of Dolby Digital Surround sound.Not only are the sets and audio full of great detail but the story is to.
The Matrix explains why some people has special powers like being able to
lift and move objects with their minds. It also has an explanation for deja
vu. There are also little gems stuck in the story itself. See if you notice
when Morpheus (the greek god of dreams, see...) asks the traitor to give him
his phone, so he can call the operator, how he stalls until someone else
gives up their phone instead, because he threw his in the trash. There are
lots of these see how many you can find in the first viewing.The movie opens up with a great intense female action scene. You just don't
get to see enough women kicking butt these days. The guys always get to have
all the fun. But not in this movie. The women can give it out with the best
of 'em.I love the special effects. The ship is great. The power plants are great.
The sewer city is great. The sentinels are great. The "bugs" are great. The
"bug" extractor is great. Bullet Time is great. The agents are great. The
oracle is great. It really is just a great movie...The best thing about the movie is it is very human. It really isn't about
the violence, or the fancy gadgets, or the special effects. It is about the
future. It is about us. It is about our will to survive and to make up for
and overcome our mistakes. It is about fighting for what is right and to
fight the good fight. It is about truth. It is about being real. It is about
caring. You will really start to care for this group of
rebels.When you take all of the violence, and fancy gadgets, and special effects
away from Star Wars, you still have a great story that almost everyone
loves. And this movie works the same way.Be sure to check out my other reviews.Thanks.

******
5 November 1999
10

One of the best movies I have ever seen. I thought Hugo Weaving played the
perfect role of an agent. The coldnest of his character was
frightening.The story line was imaginative and the visuals were first
class.Highly recommended.

******
5 November 1999
10

When I visited this site the first time I read some comments about 'the
Matrix'. I was shocked. People that claim to have some movie-knowledge
portrayed 'the Matrix' as an immature martial arts movie without any depth
or philosophy. I am not claiming that I have a lot of movie-knowledge, but
the concept, the styling, the special effects, everything. I have never
seen
a movie like this. I can say that a baby is born. This movie could change
the way of making movies for the future. So...Andy...Larry...thank you for
that. 

******
5 November 1999
7

Special effects do not make a movie (proof:  ID4, The Lost World, Lost in
Space, etc., etc. ad nauseum).  The Matrix is proof that you don't need a
good script or decent actors to have a movie as long as you get
shots--digitally or traditionally--which no one else has ever used.  The
plot is dense and the acting appalling.  Nice soundtrack and exceptional
digital sound effects made the movie tolerable.  Forget the hype with this
one and save yourself some money.

******
3 November 1999
9

I agree that Matrix had two very strong points, its amazing visuality, and
its intricate and sophisticated plot (An idea which is original and
entertaining), however the way that the plot was translated into a film
disturbs me a bit. It seems like this is more of a child's version of the
idea, rather than a possible sophisticated movie, which could have broken
alot of barriers had it not been so simplistic. The movie seems to beckon
forward to those pale-faced teenagers who've actually liked the thousands of
tired conspiracy episodes on "X-Files" - It's all there, and is in fact best
described as somewhat of the fantasy of the socially inactive
computer-freak. This so-called computer-freak portrayed by kiano is suddenly
thrust into realization that he is living inside an unreal world, a world
that was designed for him and the other humans, but in fact he is the most
powerful in that world, and that in his skills (which actually translate
into computer skills, may I add) will help him save the world from obscure
"agents" which seem to operate under no logic (They are programs, but seem
disturbingly unlike programs, especially when existing in a pre-programmed
world), hoping to assumingly "shut-down" these "illegal" hackers into the
matrix. I'm not a psychologist, but aren't these the general guidelines of a
typical pre-mature male fantasy? 
So what is the Matrix?
In my opinion, a movie with much potential, wasted as an appeal to a certain
audience, which will probably misunderstand or misinterpret the deep meaning
that the original idea held within.Perhaps I am mistaken, and it was in fact an appeal to the majority, and I
simply misunderstood. Therefore I do not presume to know exactly what the
majority thinks, and perhaps other comments will set me
straight.

******
3 November 1999
10

My favorite of all time. In my case that means the best film of the past
4/5
years. Ofcourse I have seen movies from before that. But the past 4 to 5
years i went to about every movie thats worth seeing. And altough I'm not a
die-hard sci-fi freak this is certainly the best movie I have ever
seen.
The atmosphere around it just sucks you in and doesn't let you go untill
the
credits appear.
I've got only one remark: The soundtrack sucks, maybe it's fits in the
movie
but it's just not my style
(don't pay any attention to my terrible english--> I'm from Holland (you
know... Amsterdam!!) so... )

******
3 November 1999
9

The Matrix was overall a good movie.  The problems with it were that some
parts were trying too be too cool, and some of the science fiction ideas
were unbelievable/impossible.
This movie has many good points, though.  The plot is very good, and the
movie was just plain entertaining.  Overall, The Matrix is a good movie,
but
it has some relatively minor flaws.


******
31 October 1999
10

I saw this movie three times in the theaters and I loved it so much that I
called it "The Best Movie of 1999" way back in April.  Then, it left my life
and "Star Wars: Episode 1, The Phantom Menace" entered and I wrongly called
that the new "Best Movie of 1999".  Skip ahead to October and I finally pick
up my DVD copy of "The Matrix" and see just how foolish I was.  This is not
only "The Best Movie of 1999" but also "The Best Movie Ever Made".  So,
here, along with some spoilers I'm sure, is what the movie is all
about:Thomas Anderson (AKA Neo) spends his days searching for the enigmatic
Morpheus and the answer to the question, "What is the Matrix?".  His answers
start in motion when he is confronted by one of Morpheus's disciples
Trinity.  She accidentally makes Neo a very popular man with Agent Smith and
his mysterious band of agents.  They try to turn him over to their side, but
it doesn't work and Neo is quickly introduced to Morpheus.  Morpheus tells
Neo that the Matrix is the pseudo world humans live in, and Neo is then
bought into the real world.  Neo is believed to be "The One", the person who
will destroy the evil machines and restore freedom to the human race.  While
out of the Matrix, Neo is trained to combat the agents and he does just
that.  Now all he has to do is win.I cannot write words that will do this movie justice since it rocks that
much.  The action and kung-fu scenes are the best ever seen in an American
movie.  The F/X are top-notch.  And the acting, script, and direction are
pretty damn good also.  See, this movie ... and then see it again ... and
again ... and once more for good measure.  Then maybe, you too will know
what the Matrix is.

******
31 October 1999
10

In brief, this is one of the best, if not the best, film ever made.  This
film has action, special effects and an excellent sound track; brilliant!
I
can not wait for the sequels;  this trilogy should kick the s**t out of the
barely average Star-Wars Trilogy to come (ie. extremely poor acting, plot
and some of the most unrealistic special effects since Buck
Rogers!)

******
31 October 1999
10

is what Keanu Reeves says in the movie (and in the trailer) and it's
EXACTLY
what I said after watching it, as will you.  This movie exceeded my
expectations, probably because I thought it was going to be some lame,
action sci-fi with an overused plot.  This movie makes you think, but it
waves enough action, visual effects and pretty faces in your face to keep
you entertained as well.  once again, I gotta say it...whoa.

******
30 October 1999
10

The Matrix had me cheering and nearly jumping out of my seat just as I had
done when I saw Terminator 2. Both movies frame the 1990's perfectly and
both deal with a possible future for man if he doesn't, in a sense, wake up
from the machine oriented reality he has fashioned for himself. Do you see
how wild The Matrix is? It has got me babbling on about reality and
machines!! Cool, man!!  

******
29 October 1999
10

Using futuristic ideas that stretch the limits of imagination and
sensibility, The Matrix climbs near the top on my all time favorite movies.
If you're looking for action and the first good Keanu Reeves movie then
check it out.  But I would suggest a good surround sound system for the
movie. 

******
28 October 1999
8

One of my all-time favourite sci-fi films. Like Bladerunner, it's
refreshing
to get a sci-fi movie that doesn't have all the spin-offs for kids (such as
plague star wars movies). The plot is also sufficiently intellectually
challenging to keep an adult audience riveted - and the special effects are
not only state of the art but used to support the story rather than
distract
from it.

******
27 October 1999
9

Caution: If you haven't seen this movie, don't read my review, it'll only
create conflict in your mind when you view it...With that said...
The Matrix provides one of the most powerful symbols of Christ's return in
a
futuristic setting.  Writers of the matrix felt that to aid the the common
movie goer, they would name one of the characters "trinity."  How
convienient = )Such an odd name, but not out of context.  It becomes obvious that Keanu
Reeves is the modern day Jesus Christ as he defies the laws of gravity,
physics, and eventually reality.  As he gains support and training from his
apostles, he becomes a powerful fighter in the attempt to free mankind from
ultimate slavery.  He is the "chosen one" that will deliver us from
slavery.
He is saved by Trinity, who proves that love is the only power greater
than
all mankind.Consider how you view his actions carefully though.  As Keanu Reeves
slaughters mindless SWAT agents he drives farther and farther from what one
might consider to be the teachings of Jesus.  But, movies need audiences,
and what could be better than the Son of God returning to a computerized
world, freeing slaves and kicking some major booty.As an action flick The Matrix is unsurpassed... we get explosions, hand to
hand combat, helicopters, and of course,
guns, lots of guns.The only city left protected from the mechanical death... Zion... of
course,
just a tidbitI suggest that you go and watch The Matrix again, i've seen it about 9
times, and look for the symbolism involved.  Its pretty interesting when
you
do...

******
26 October 1999
10

If you're a SciFi VR enthusiast, DON'T miss this movie! It's got everything
you'll want: great story line, excellent special effects, wonderfully
developed characters, and an ending that will both satisfy and leave you
wanting more. If you enjoy this sort of thing, be sure and read Jack L.
Chalker's three book series "The Wonderland Gambit" and Robert Charrette's
"ShadowRun" books. A great deal of the story in this movie was lifted from
these books; all are excellent SciFi and drama.


******
25 October 1999
8

"The Matrix" is an absolute thrill-a-minute ride with a twist: there's a
plot and some depth behind the superb special effects.  The film is highly
entertaining, provocative, is generally well-acted (Reeves does a great job
UNDERPLAYING his role here), and it boasts a terrific villain in "Mr.
Smith," whose monotone barely disguises his loathing for humans.  The
producer of "The Phantom Menace" should take note of the use and quality of
the fx here, and perhaps get a clue for his next film.  In particular, the
martial arts scene with Fishburne and Keanu is not new, but is sharp and
nicely integrated into the plot.My main issues with the film (as also noted by Roger Ebert) are that it has
a partially derivative screenplay (see "Dark City," the writings of Philip
Farmer and Harlan Ellison, and certain stock action films), and that the
climax, while exciting, is predictable and well-worn, and implies that the
screenwriters and story editors simply ran out of ideas.  This leaves the
viewer unsatisfied with the traditional "good guy v. bad guy" fight that
leaves the intellectual issues raised earlier unresolved.  That said, "The
Matrix" is great entertainment and a definite "big screen" film.  An "8."

******
20 October 1999
10

(Warning: light spoilers inside). I do love this film: action, plot and
besides everything a story rich of wisdom.In fact it is a clear example of what is human being.  "Man lives in jail"
says Morpheus to Neo.Man thinks to be integer and unique, but he is just MANY modules, MANY
programs. Remember the fight between Morpheus and Neo or when Trinity learns
to drive the helicopter. In those moments Neo and Trinity could use their
mind, but usually what happens outside loads in our mind another program and
we start acting according to that new program, and we think to be that new
program: that is the jail.The Wachowski brothers show that there is the possibility to escape from the
jail.There is the possibility to awake, to stop sleeping! (following a master -
Morpheus -; inside a group - all the others -; through continuous training -
like Neo in Nebuchadnezzar -; using the mind and not being used - like
Morpheus when jumps over the skyscraper or like the baby with the spoon).And to succeed is necessary to die - and in fact Neo dies -; only after, he
clearly sees "The Matrix" and starts to be free from it.The Matrix is a great film, and because of the deep message it has inside,
that many people vibrate watching it.


******
20 October 1999
8

The Matrix was a fundamentally entertaining film.  However, there were
reverberations of previous films I have seen.  For example, one of these
films is "The Wizard of Oz".  The Matrix is an influential film, mixing fun
with a serious plot, which has underlying implications in modern life.  I
refer of course to the under-hand and, in some places blatant, disregard
for
human life for the benefit of those in power.The point is, I believe in the Matrix as a true representation of our
oppressed modern society.

******
20 October 1999
10

The matrix is by far the greatest action movie that I have seen in a very
long time.  I love the fact that its purpose was purely to search and
destroy, as so many action movies are.  I like the fact that it has a
philosophical side to it that leaves it's viewers with something to think
about besides people getting blown away, and buildings destroyed.  Also that
in the end all we know is that the "good guys" were a step ahead, but there
was no guarentee that they would win, so to speak.  

******
16 October 1999
10

Excellent, stunning effects, etc. Read all the other comments for details!
I
especially like the Street Fighter 2-style fight sequence between Morpheus
and Neo. It is choreographed very impressively.The soundtrack CD is superb, although I notice the American version is
edited, but the score CD is less impressive.And we do like Switch. Ohh, yes.

******
16 October 1999
9

I read that Keanu Reeves only got his part in this movie because he told
the
Wachowskis his ideas on the philosophical angles of the 'Neo' character and
the script in general... At that was just what the directors needed to help
their pretensions of making something much more important than a movie and
they haven't done too bad a job.  The great thing is that they haven't
forgotten the need to be entertaining, too.The special effects are fantastic, the characterisations memorable
(especially Hugo Weaving's Mr Smith), and the action spectacular, but
sometimes the pacing drags a little bit.The story line is intriguing and definitely sets you thinking about the
greater implications of the story line (Christian parallels are many and
well-constructed).  I wonder, though, if the prequels/sequels that are
planned will end up adding to or subtracting from (see Phantom Menace) the
story so far constructed...

******
14 October 1999
10

You have to see it. I saw it 4 and a half times and I still can`t get
enough..when it`s out on dvd, I`ll buy it! Whatever people say, don`t take
their words for granted. If you want a lovestory, a good action movie, and
a
chance to look at the world from a different perspective, see this movie.
The movie has a very steady pace, keeps you surprised constantly, and all
the little details make perfect sense! It has been since Dances With Wolves
since a movie did fit so perfectly together. 

******
14 October 1999
10

This movie is a heavy mix of Japanese Animation (Anime), Hong Kong Cinema, &
American comic book action all rolled up into one. This movie keeps you on
the edge of your seat till the end, and I mean it! Let's just hope that you
don't end up falling over... I would rate this hart pounding, not stop
action movie a 10 out of 10!!

******
13 October 1999
9

exept the bad ending its a great fun,not enough humor though.
if you like good camera work and a very cool aproach you
will love this one-nice fights and stunts,best green screen
fx i have ever seen.

******
13 October 1999
8

Some of the best visuals and editing in a film I have seen in a while.  I
expected a non-stop, action packed meaningless film before watching this
movie.  But after two viewings I got to realize how deep this movie really
is.  The biblical references were very interesting.  Keaunu Reeves
represented Jesus.  The plot, though confusing, was orignal and intriguing.
Cant wait for the sequels, may clear up some questions lingering in my
head.


******
13 October 1999
9

An absolutely stunning sci/fi film. This film is filled with originality
and
jaw dropping special effects. It deals with the meaning of reality and
perception. The Wachowski brothers have created a truly unique film
experience.

******
13 October 1999
9

The Matrix is a very good movie with a great premise.It is well written, and well acted and there aren't any holes in the plot
(as is usually the case in action/fantasy genre).  The kiss scene is the
only shadow on an otherwise realistic film.I wasn't a Keanu Reeves fan before watching this movie, and I'm still not,
but he pulled off a convincing performance in The Matrix.The special effects are wonderful, and must be seen to be believed.Overall, the premise, plot, and special effects is what made this movie so
good.  I wouldn't be surprised if there was a Matrix 2 -- but I hope that
they don't call it that.9/10

******
12 October 1999
10

The Matrix was a thrilling action packed movie, perfectly put together. 
Keanu Reeves and Lawrence Fishburne were at their best.  Hugo Weaving was
the best villain I have ever seen.   This film was simply the film of the
century.  

******
12 October 1999
10

Not being a big fan of Keanu, (though I loved him in My Own Private) I
expected a rather weakly acted movie with some great effects. I was
pleasantly surprised. The role on Neo seems to have been written for Keanu
allowing him to be airheaded but with a reason.  I thoroughly enjoyed the
whole movie and watched it a second time the very next day, (something I've
never done before)  Its a definate must see.

******
11 October 1999
10

My opinion: I absolutely love it.My reasoning:
Outstanding plot - This brilliant plot keeps your eyes and mind glued to
the
movie for the entire 2+ hours.  It's a really great (if not mind-bending)
feeling when your brain puts two and two together and you discover what
the
matrix really is (a short time before the actual explanation).Outstanding visual/special effects - Filming styles never-before-seen in a
movie, seamless CG constituents, and outstanding "classical" special
effects
add a tremendous amount of eye-candy to an already great
movie.Good music/sound effects - The music's very well-done (not quite "great"
but
close).  The sound effects are great and, at times, quite innovative (the
metallic distortion of Neo's screams, for instance).Overall, it's a really outstanding movie with an extremely original,
twisting plot that really keeps you guessing and continues to make you
think
long after the movie is over.  It's a bit on the cerebral side so people
who
just like pure action and no thought may not be completely impressed (more
than likely, you'll at least like it, however).  It will definitely appeal
to geeks (like myself).  There may be a few slightly, over-dramatic shots,
not bad - but made me chuckle a couple of times (usually facial
expressions
by Keanu).  Believe it or not, Keanu Reeves actually does a decent job
(could've been better, but definitely the best he's ever done).  I saw it
multiple times in the theater (very rare) and also bought the DVD (a very
good disc with a lot of features - BTW).  I give it a very enthusiastic
9/10.

******
10 October 1999
7

The action sequences are great, and the overall movie is entertaining, but
the plot is lame. It's entertaining enough for me to not care about the
plot
holes, or the uneven performances, however. Imaginative, but
flawed.

******
10 October 1999
10

The Matrix is one of the most realistic films i have ever seen. Don't you
think there IS the POSSIBILITY, that we ALL are only A PART of AN ENORMOUS
machine, doing nothing else than sucking all our life energy out of us ? Of
course, you need to have a good imagination to think about that. But isn't
it possible, that our world, as we know it, is only a computer-generated
model ?
Think about it...

******
10 October 1999
10

I have not been so childishly drawn into a movie since Star Wars.  The
innocent, playful, comic book style of the film covers it's heavy themes
beautifully.  The notion of the willingness to see truth as an indicator
of
morality was purposefully portrayed as the Hero is willing to witness the
truth regardless of the consequences, while his Judas-like human enemy
takes
the path of least resistance and opts for pleasure over truth.
Thankfully,
these motifs never become heavy-handed and the film rock'n'rolls along
nicely with spectacular violence and special effects.  I have seen the
movie
in French and German and still found it entertaining.  My favorite movie
of
the year.

******
7 October 1999
9

Let me be completely honest and open when I say that "The Matrix" is a
REALLY FRIKKIN' WEIRD movie.  I breezed into the theater expecting a
run-of-the-mill action movie with lots and lots of things that go boom
with
a decent plot to move the story along, without much thought needed.  Whoo
boy, was I wrong.  We have good ol' local boy Keanu Reeves as Neo, a
hacker
with some incredible power buried deep within him, and Laurence Fishburne
as
the enigmatic Morpheus, an equally powerful hacker who trains Neo in the
use
of his incredible abilities, ranging from jumping vast distances to
nigh-unstoppable speed, strength, agility, and stamina, and the ever-cool
ability to dodge bullets and occasionally stop them dead in their tracks.
While I can't tell much more without spoiling the unbelievably cerebral
plot, I can tell you that seeing "The Matrix" will give you a completely
new
perspective on life.  Oh, and I did try and run up a wall in a paintball
game after I saw this movie.  If it makes you feel any better, and
especially if it gives you a good laugh, I fell flat on my
ass.

******
6 October 1999
10

I saw it in the movie theater twice, and bought the DVD and saw it another
3
times...GREATEST Movie of all time. The only thing that ruined it a little
was that kissing scene that revived Neo. I thought that was a bit
lame...But
what the heck! I still love the movie. 

******
5 October 1999
8

After watching this movie I wanted to run on the walls (literally).  It
was
a flashy techno-drama with great special effects.  The story kept me
interested, and the acting was good.  I would place this in the
"first-run"
category, meaning get out there and see it in the theatres.

******
4 October 1999
10

Awesome, unbelievable, incredible.This movie has a solid plot, mixed with stupendous music, to make it a
wonderful movie experience. I saw it twice in the theatres, and when it
came
out on video, I rented it, and brought it back 2 days late, because I
didn't
want to stop watching it. But the video store called, and asked for it
back.They left this movie WIDE open for a sequel, and I would love one. But of
course, we can't always get what we want (Unless someone has $10 million
to
spare, and a great director.)

******
3 October 1999
9

I saw it.  I liked it.  I saw it again...  and again.One of the beset things about this film is the use of its visuals.  The
effects are not overdone but are executed in a manner that accentuates the
mood in an extremely appropriate way.Plot has a couple of good twists and some of the actors' performances are
appropriate for the genre (I wouldn't say Oscar material
though).Not perfect for me but, oh, so close with 9/10

******
2 October 1999
10

Reality in the "real" world seems to be just as uncertain and confusing as
The Matrix.  It was a movie that made me think of how closed one's eyes
could be to the stuff that goes on behind the scenes.  We are often so
content living in our comfortable little lives, that we seldom take note of
the little things that are quite out of place.  And when these "anomalies"
do cross our paths, we tend to either ignore it or write it off as mistaken
perception.  The Matrix reminded me that I too would rather take the Red
capsule and open my eyes to a world that seems so impossible, yet is the
truth of what is out there, and more often than not, in
here...

******
1 October 1999
9

As I rewatch this movie I begin to realize how unoriginal this movie is.
While it is a good movie, it isn't original.  It's an obvious Hollywood
movie.  Built to please action fans.  However if your looking for a quality
movie, go to the movie that started it...Dark City!

******
30 September 1999
10

This movie is great!! I mean it.  It's more than what you expect from a
futuristic movie, I'm not really a futuristic fan but I really enjoyed
this
film, it has very intense dialogues, and amazing martial arts, action,
sequences.  So no matter if you are into futuristic stuff or you're not go
and rent it, by the way it is the #1 in DVD sales overpowering TITANIC by
68,000 copies the first week. It's a 10/10

******
29 September 1999
9

I rented this movie last night on DVD. I sat down and watched it with
dolby's wonderful digital surround sound....WOW. The effects are amazing,
this movie belongs in the top 20 here at IMDB. The movie left me
wanting/hoping for more. I would recommend this movie to anyone that likes
sci-fi and action films. I will be watching this one again soon.


******
28 September 1999
10

It's unfortunate that many people disliked The Matrix.  I, however, am not
one of those people.  I thought The Matrix was phenomenal and well worth
the
time I spent watching it.With stunning visual effects and a well-integrated plot, The Matrix is by
far the best movie of 1999.  I believe the character Neo was well suited
for
Keanu Reeves' acting style who did a wonderful job.  Moss, Fishburne, and
Pantoliano were excellent in their portrayals of their characters.  After
seeing the movie, I saw reality in a different way.  It was empowering for
me.  I can only say that about a handful of movies.For anyone who hasn't seen The Matrix, this is one you won't be
disappointed
with.  It's well worth the time.

******
27 September 1999
10

 What if your "reality" wasn't real at all?What if your "life" was a
computer program fed into your by evil artficial intelligence that was using
you as a power source? Welcome to the future. A group of rebels separated from the computers fight for the freedom of an
enslaved mankind.A prophetess declares that Neo(Reeves) is the one to lead
them out of the darkness.The rebels risk their lives to bring him out of his
force fed life into the real world. The special effects are outstanding and the plot is riveting. This has to
be one of the most original and well thought out movies in the past 30
years.2001 can't even stand in the shadow of this gem. My only regret is that I didn't get to see it on the big
screen
and I'm kicking myself for this.Go rent it and prepare to be amazed.A rare
solid 10.

******
27 September 1999
9

I went to see The Matrix on its opening night in theatres so when it hit
dvd
i went out and got me a copy.  I was one of the few who liked Johnny
Mneumonic (or however its spelled) and for the most part liked all Keanu
Reeves movies (this and Point Break are the best).  I never saw the
Wachowski Bros. other movie but i remembered that they were former comic
book writers and i love comics especially Heavy Metal, Spawn, etc.  The
Matrix looks great its beautiful to look at and the special effects are
awesome.  All the actors did great...i mean really really great in my
opinion.  I didn't think the movie was hard to follow like some people
said,
it takes (not copies) things from The Terminator (machines being stronger
and enslaving man), the Bible (need i explain), and Hong Kong/Kung Fu
movies.  Lots say its action is like John Woo but to me its like Tsui
Hark,
but then again it takes all these things and creates one of the coolest,
best, and original movies EVER.  I can't say enough about this movie and i
applaud Keanu Reeves, Carrie-Ann Moss, Laurence Fishburne, and Hugo
Weeving
for going through training for the fight scenes.  The Wachowski's are now
part of my best directors catagory( which also includes George A. Romero,
Alex de la Iglesia and others).  Also i urge everyone who has HBO to watch
Heavy Metal:FAKK when it premieres in March.  THE MATRIX IS THE BEST MOVIE
OF 1999 AND PERHAPS THE BEST MOVIE EVER.

******
27 September 1999
8

Watching this movie felt like reading a 60's sci-fi book (probably where
they got the idea), the ones that makes you think and feel different after
reading.This movie can be compared with todays world of technology and computer
viruses...  except that the roles are switched...The negative things:
The plot could have been a little more worked out.
And please, please, please change the actors (this is not an option
;-)


******
27 September 1999
9

The Matrix, takes you to another world, or should I say another LEVEL. The
movie brings out the same old question : FATE!!   Is everyone in control of
himself, or is another external force controlling us.> Neo (Keanu Reeves) is off to find the answer. Suddenly he finds himself  in
this very cool, action packed movie : " The Matrix" . He has to face Ai-men
(Artificial Intelligence) that can take over the life of any human and
capture his body.One of the best scenes in this movie was when Neo faces one of the Ai-men
and has to maneuver bullets on a rooftop of a skyscraper. Very cool and
sharp visual effects  were applied in this great movie.Also very cool character performed by Laurence Fishburne.>That movie is a must see. 10/10.

******
26 September 1999
9

I thought the plot was pretty straight forward and predictable. I still
thought it was a good story, just not too many unexpected twists and turns.
The special effects, and the imagination inherent in the story were what
sold this for me. I liked this enough I'd happily go out and buy a copy of
this movie. I saw it on the small screen - I'd say this would be awesome on
a movie screen. 

******
25 September 1999
9

I can understand how the Matrix was so successful. With lots of gun shots
and explosions per minute, good special effects, stylish actors and a few
solid sci-fi ideas what more could you ask for?Let's begin with some original plot ideas. My problem I guess is that I have
seen a lot of sci-fi movies and TV shows. So, basic plot retreads do not
excite me. The beginning of The Matrix starts out like Scanners (1981)
introducing people who have incredible powers. Then it shifts to the virtual
reality, world is illusion, phase (done at least 50 times on the various
Star Trek series and Virtuosity, 1995; Strange Days, 1995, etc.). Then comes
the machines take over humanity surprise (Star Trek First Contact-the Borg
and Terminator 2). The rebels in the Matrix are looking for a Messianic
leader (check out the original Terminator). How about showing some original style? I recommend Dark City (1998) which
accomplishes this very well. The Matrix is a blend of Blade (1998) and
Terminator 2. We have acrobatic actors firing machine guns in slow motion,
big deal. Does the plot make sense? Sometimes, but it is very inconsistent. The idea
that the machine/bad guys would fight with guns in the virtual reality world
is absurd. This is a computer controlled reality after all of the 22nd
century. Why limit yourself to clunky guns? How about some decent dialogue? The love interest in this film is a joke.
Trinity's (Carrie-Anne Moss) lines at the end of the film are terrible. You
want an excellent heroine? Try Linda Hamilton in the Terminator films. 
Between the posing and posturing and the fight scenes what is being said by
the crew most of the time is pretty lame. You want to see good scenes of a
crew under pressure? Try the first two Alien movies.What is there to like about The Matrix? The editing, sound, camera work,
stunts and computer graphics are good. Lawrence Fishburne turns in a fine
performance as usual. Also, all of the action and special effects are able
to cover for Keanu Reeves who turns in a flat performance as usual. Briefly,
in the middle of the film when the pace slowed in a scene with the "oracle"
the characters and plot became a bit more interesting. But then it was lock
and load time.What really bothers me about The Matrix is that this mediocre retread is
rated higher by imdb members than these great films; Blade Runner (1982),
Alien (1979), Aliens (1986) and Terminator 2 which is outrageous. The Matrix
does not belong in the top 200 movies. This will take care of itself in a
few years because this oracle predicts that by 2010 hardly anybody will care
about this film.  

******
25 September 1999
10

What can I say about "The Matrix"?  Well, I think I'll have to start
with..."This is one of...if not the best movie I've ever seen.  The movie is
excellent from start to finish, I was never once bored, and one of the best
story lines I've ever encountered.  If you haven't seen this movie, you
really ought to.  The special effects are astounding and the acting is quite
good.  I give it a 10 out of 10.

******
25 September 1999
8

Matrix was the first movie I bought for my new DVD player.  Now, I wish I
hadn't.  I know I'll be searching long and hard to find anything that can
exploit DVD like this movie can.  Some of the scenes were shot with over 100
(*one hundred*) cameras!  For people who think that the Sci-Fi genre is
stagnating, The Matrix will absolutely rejuvenate you!  I hope other
filmmakers see this movie and follow the white rabbit

******
24 September 1999
8

I was very surprised to see this film in the top 30 films of all time. Not
least for the fact that it borrows from nearly every other sci-fi film ever
made such as the imagery of Ridley Scott's Blade Runner and (vaguely) the
plot of James Cameron's The Terminator, which are frankly, better films. The
fascinating plot premise is wasted to a certain degree by the mind boggling
plot and a never ending stream of psycho-babble that shows every sign of a
film cramming in far too many ideas than it can handle. And then there's the
lousy ending However for all these flaws The Matrix (particularly the last
half hour) is very entertaining, getting by on that old trick: showmanship.
It's absolutely stunning! SFX, from the mirror spreading on Neo's face, to
the `flo-mo' camera shots, to that helicopter crash, are superb and are by
far the most impressive of 1999's blockbusters. The Wachowski brothers
direct with pace and flare and there are some very funny moments throughout
(`Wooah'). Performances too, are good. Fishburne and newcomer, Moss (what a
find!) shine and even Reeves is not half as wooden as usual. I was slightly
disappointed, mainly due to script and after reading all the great reviews,
perhaps I had set my hopes a little high. But The Matrix is by far the best
summer SFX blockbuster this year. 8/10

******
24 September 1999
10

Good Film.  For the first half of the movie I had to remind myself that this
is a science fiction story. The visuals or *special effects* really start to
put it into place.. Those scenes by the way were just too cool to watch... 
I guess I liked the story overall but kept wondering out loud sometimes 
about the story... But then thats more what a Science Fiction story is all
about.  Overall though it was a neat film to watch.

******
24 September 1999
10

I had high expectations for this film. People who had
seen the movie came out and spoke gibberish about pills
and spoons, and reviews painted pictures of extremely nice
SF movie with rich philosophical content.
And after I saw the trailer, I knew I had to see this movie
at all costs. And, I must say, it definitely was worth
it.Matrix is, as I mentioned, a mind-blowing experience - you
just
have to see it to believe it. "No one can be told what
the
Matrix is, you have to see it for yourself" - and I might
add,
no one can guess beforehand what kind of experience the
movie is, you *really* have to see it for yourself. Words
can hardly describe all of it.


******
23 September 1999
10

Though this movie will undoubtably be shunned for best picture at the Oscars
since it has a bit of SCI/FI, it is one of the most ground breaking and
historic movies of all time.  Though I was too young to see Star Wars when
it came out I have heard that audiences were in awe at the future of cinema
that stared them in the eyes.  That is the experience I had watching the
Matrix.  Not only does this movie boast one of the best plots out of
hollywood this decade, but this movie also shows us a new future of filming
movies.  Lucas may want the future to be about Jar Jar Binks and digital
non-human characters, but the rest of the world will want the future of
movies to take the rout that the Wachowski brothers have placed before the
world in the form of the Matrix. ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT. 


******
23 September 1999
8

The movie has a very interesting idea and is packed with amazing special
effects. Good acting and camerawork. Unfortunately, the directors resort to
the usual, adolescent-style shoot-outs. Such action climaxes are, at best,
tedious and boring. 

******
23 September 1999
10

When I initially saw this film I new nothing about the plot, let alone the
matrix. I was asking myself the same questions as Neo was, "What is the
matrix". This kept the film alive for me. Thats maybe why I gave it a 10 out
of 10. The film reminds me of
"Dark Cities", where everything is not what it seems, It also relates to how
my brain works. 

******
23 September 1999
10

The matrix really fascinated me. I really like the storyline, just like the
story of the 13th floor. But not only the story is great, so are the special
effects presented on screen. I have never seen better kung-fu fighting and
sci-fi combat scenes till now. Together with the eye candy goes a great
soundtrack. I only hope that part 2 and 3 are as good, and i think they will
because 3 parts were planned from the beginning. Till then I will be
watching this great movie on DVD.

******
23 September 1999
9

"The Matrix" is arguably the most imaginative Science Fiction vision ever
brought to life on the big screen.  Combine that vision with incredible
action, special effects and acting, and you have a movie that transcends
its
genre.  The Matrix, like Star Wars was in 1977, is 5-10 years ahead of its
time.  Is it Science Fiction?  Mythology?  An action film?  You decide.
Once again, like Star Wars, I feel that it's a combination of all three.
Like Star Wars, it's a perfect 10/10.  And like Star Wars (and Blade
Runner), it will become a cult classic in the years to come.  Superlative,
imaginative filmmaking.  If you haven't seen it yet, prepare yourself for
the ride of your life.

******
23 September 1999
10

Rarely have I seen such an incredible movie.  Some say that Keanu Reeves
is
somewhat wooden in The Matrix, but I can't think of anyone who could play
the role better.  It has a great plot that keeps you ensnared until the
end,
when you're begging for it to keep going.  You leave wishing it were real.
The effects were, in a word, perfect.  I have to say that there are only
one
or two flaws in the entire movie, and I'm not telling what they are,
because
I wish I didn't know them.  But then, you have to see it as many times as
I
have to notice.  If you haven't seen this movie, rent it.  I promise it
will
blow you away.  It has The Phantom Menace beat hands down, if you ask me.


******
23 September 1999
10

This movie kicked ass. It was weird at times but all the action made up
for
it. Keanu Reeves was especially good in the movie, and the martial arts
seen
with him and Fishburne was funny as well as cool. THe ending was the best
part

******
22 September 1999
8

Well, this movie was really enjoyable, I really liked it. The effects were
cool, the plot something new and the whole thing just impressive. Just one
thing that really annoyed me: The rating. My god, the rating!! IMDb gives
"The Matrix" a 8.6 with 42.6% "10s" and in the Top 250 it is on place #28!
My god, that can't be true - it was a good movie, but I've seen lots of
movies that were better, not just 27!

******
21 September 1999
9

When I first saw the trailers for The Matrix, I had visions of Johnny
Mnemonic 2.  Fortunately this is not the case.  While not being terribly
original, The Matrix is a movie with interesting ideas, spectacular FX,
and
stunning action sequences.  The Wachowski Bros. have quickly risen to the
ranks of the best action directors, showing an eye for detail and quality
that is on par with James Cameron.I despise Keanu Reeves with every fiber of my being.  That is why I am
surprised by how much I like this movie.  The rest of the cast does an
admirable job in the acting department, and helps Reeves maintain a screen
persona that does not make you want to throw up.The Matrix is exciting, intelligent, beautiful, and one of the most
entertaining movies of the last few years.  

******
20 September 1999
8

There has been a substantial buzz about this movie, and with good reason. 
The Matrix does an excellent job of wiring the audience into the movie, and
then leading them on a thrill ride.  Allowing the audience to identify with
the main character in all his glory and power, and to desire and lust after
the Trinity character, athletic, intelligent, and attractive.  However, I
believe the adrenaline generated by this movie (which was a great deal)
shrouds some of the other issues.  Neo saved by the kiss of true love (trite
and over used in the movie business).  Hitting the audience over the head
with the implications instead of allowing the audience to come to the
conclusion by themselves.  My friend accurately summed the movies
popularity, in my opinion, by saying "Every class of person loves to be cast
as the hero" and Neo appeals to the young tech heads of today along with the
young athletes and rebels.  I believe the special effects were superb, but I
believe the unveiling of the plot was a little brutal and lacking trust that
the audience would be intelligent enough to draw it's own conclusions. 
Enjoy the movie, for it is truly a wonderful exhibition of the action/sci fi
genre.

******
20 September 1999
10

I reluctantly went to see this movie (I was no fan of Keanu). Needless to
say I was overwhelmed...This is the only movie I've made multiple trips
back
to see (I'm embarrassed to say how many times). "The Matrix" is destined
for
cult movie Sci-Fi status. If you haven't seen it's ground-breaking effects
(no overdone Jar-Jar Stinks kiddie CG clown stuff here) RUN to your
nearest
DVD retailer. 

******
18 September 1999
8

This is a must see movie.
The plot i think has been used before, but i don't know where (i just had a
"Deja-vu" feeling throughout the movie!!!!).
The plot is a bit thin, but the pace, actors (male & female), and special
effects make you forget this. It is a rollercoaster from start to
finish.
One for my collection.8/10 (it would have been a 10 but for the thin plot)

******
18 September 1999
10

I have not been able to say this about a film for a long time, but The
Matrix (1999) is a wonderful film.  From the first frame of film to the last
scene where Reeves flies upwards into the sky you will find your self
hooked.Every minute seems to bring a new revelation as Neo (Reeves) is plunged
head-first (literally at one point) into the real world.  Other reviewers
have compared The Matrix with Alice in Wonderland, and this analogy couldn't
be more true.  Reeves plays the Alice charactor admirably well; as he
discovers, in the most stylish way possible, that the world is not all it
seems and that mankind is nothing more than a living battery to power our
future computer controlled nemesis.The scary thing is that this could all be true.  The world as we know it
could be nothing more than an illusion to keep us under control.  An
excellent supporting cast of Carrie-Anne Moss and Laurence Fishburne help
make the illusion seem real.  All in all a fantastic movie, the highlight of
the year.

******
17 September 1999
10

the matrix was by far one of Keanu Reeves finest movies yet it makes one
wonder what if we really were living in nothing but a matrix ?????  I was
taken aback by the special effects , and sometimes it is nice to associate
with one character.  It is not hard to see how presistence and discipline
can pay off in a movie.  NO wonder ,  look at all of the movies that are
trying to copy off the text of it .  I wish them good luck, but they will
not even come close      

******
17 September 1999
10

The matrix is the best movie I have ever seen and I have seen thousands of
movies. The FX and the action + acting is the best I have ever
seen!!!I give it 11 stars out of 10You must go see this film on a big screen for the full
effect.I promise by the time the movie is over you will have a different look on
life!Go see the film now you will not be disappointed

******
16 September 1999
8

Yes, one has to admit, The Matrix is maybe "the" representative of the
new-millenial hype-action movie. It is a well acted, well directed, well
"designed", and obviously well thought movie. There should be no doubt that
the action movies of the 2000s will more or less look like, feel like, sound
like and be flashy like The Matrix, IF the producers have enough money as
the Wachowsky brothers. So what's disappointing? Everyone left the theater feeling dizzy and
confused, having conversations over their personal pseudo-lives and the
ambivalence and vagueness of their perceptions of reality. Keanu Reeves as
Neo and Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus dazzled the audience with their
superb acting. Carrie-Anne Moss became every guy's dream date (watch the
Jiu-Jitsu moves!). But.... but The Matrix is so close to being just the
pumped-up, pretentious, expensive, star packed candidate of the "Kafkaesque
Action Movie of the New Millenium", thanks to Dark City. It was so
frustrating not hearing anyone mention this romantic prototype of the
parallel world/deceived citizens plot. And, oh! That absolutely cliché, and
almost stupid ending with that mindless and laughable monologue! Now that
would be more suitable with a 70s low-budget space adventure.Yes, one must confess that The Matrix is truly and certainly good. It is
indeed mind and eye boggling. But, it is not *the* movie after all. For a
refreshing retrospective, Dark City by Alex Proyas and Bound by the
Wachowsky brothers is strongly recommended.

******
15 September 1999
10

The Wachowski brothers are probably some of the best film writer / directors
out there today. Like most folks, The Matrix's visuals blew me away. YOU
MUST SEE THIS FILM ON THE BIG SCREEN. But what was even more impressive was
the super-tight story, effective use of mythology, empathetic main
character, compelling obstacle character and horrific antagonist. Before I
saw this film I thought THE ROCK with Nick Cage and Sean Connery was the
best action film with real substance behind it.  The Matrix definitely
deserves a top spot on the Top 250 list. See this film! I don't know anyone
who hasn't been impressed with it. If these brothers can keep writing like
this they are destined for long-term film maker fame.  If you end up liking
this film, see BOUND, also by the brothers Wachowski, with Gina Gershon and
Jennifer Tilly. 

******
15 September 1999
10

As a computer programmer I was pleased with the way certain aspects of
computer programming was represented.  I especially liked the way that the
"code" was visualized.  I would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys
computers, altered aspects of reality, and a good conspiracy.

******
12 September 1999
10

"The Matrix" was excellent.  The action was awesome, the science fiction was
awesome, the plot line was awesome, all of the twists and turns were
awesome, and, hey, the acting wasn't all that bad either.I'm not a big sci-fi fan.  At all.  So when I went to go see "The Matrix," I
expected it to be nothing.  Instead, it was more than the exact opposite. 
It was as far away from what I expected as you can get.Keanu Reeves, Lawrence Fishborne, and Carrie-Anne Moss star in "The Matrix,"
which is about one man, Thomas Anderson (Reeves), or "Neo," who is trying to
find the matrix.  The matrix is the real world, the world we live in being
nothing except that everyone is controlled.  After Neo, with the help of
Morpheous (Fishborne) and Trinity (Moss), discovers the truth, he must fight
for survival to take control of his own life.With all the plot twists in this movie,  it easily keeps you interested.  It
keeps feeding you, and you want to know more and more.  What also helps is
most of the performances weren't all that bad (bravo Keanu Reeves).  The
only problem I had with this movie were the Agents and their
sllllloooooowwwww talking.Besides that one flaw, "The Matrix" is a must see movie.  If you were
unfortunate enough to miss it in theaters, go rent it or buy it (it's worth
it) when it comes out on video or if you have DVD.  My grade:
A-

******
12 September 1999
10

I just wanted to say that if you haven't seen it yet, you better go do just
that, coz this thing is THE movie of 1999! It's got action and sci-fi and
heaps of special effects, and Keanu Reeves is as usual wonderful to watch.
You better hurry!  

******
11 September 1999
10

The MATRIX was a movie that had it all.  Anyone who has enjoyed the
Terminator films (sci-fi, back-in-time) and Jackie Chan films (choreographed
fight scenes) will LOVE and CHERISH this film !!
All performances were convincing, the action non-stop, and the plot was
solid and had many varying levels of symbolism, meaning, and
relevance.
I could go on, but I must be going now, I am about to see the movie for the
sixth time !!

******
10 September 1999
10

Having heard so many things about this movie I was expecting something
good.But this movie was not just good.It was the best sci-fi movie I have
ever seen . Especially the parts with the fights were so good that I could
not believe my eyes that this was not Teken 3 on a playstation I was
watching.Also this movie projects some ideas about life that are quite
interesting.Do not wait to rent,go and see it now !

******
7 September 1999
9

When i first looked at the campaign of this movie , i thought it was just
another one that spend a lot of money to impress the public. But after a few
opinions from my close friends i also temptated to see the movie.The beginning nail me down ! I wasn't expecting the adventure to begin so
soon. Carrie-Anne Moss (Trinity) fitted in her role exactly. The roof
chasing and the quality of the effects with a very good sound dressing ,
made this and all the actions scenes very realistic.
At first i had the impression that we were in video game. Soon i realize the
magic touch of the special effect team work. It was outstanding!!!
Everything seemed so real, you could believe you were playing a part in this
play. Laurence Fishburne (Morpheus) was imposing.He gives you the sense of
safety and thrill at the same time.By far he was the key character of the
movie. Keanu Reeves (Thomas A. Anderson/Neo)saw us for another time how
promising actor can be ( that cold look in his eyes !).
The Wachowski's gave us a new idea of the world to be (machines gathering
energy from the people...).They saw us something new and possible to happen.
Who knows...
All the above points to one thing only: DON'T MISS THAT MOVIE, YOU WILL
REGRET IT FOR YOUR REST OF YOUR LIFE. 

******
7 September 1999
10

The Matrix is the most entertaining film I've ever seen.  The action and
special effects are without rival.  But, in addition, the plot of the film
and the philosophical issues raised are extremely interesting and well
done.
In short, this film is very nutritious - lots of eye-candy, but with
equal
servings of character and story.  Unreserved 2 thumbs up.

******
6 September 1999
9
I saw "The Matrix" a few days ago. The film is quite good and received
much attention (and publicity) as it promised stunning special effects
around a sophisticated and compelling plot.Well, the effects were as expected for a contemporary, expensive sci-fi
adventure. My only objection are the monitors that presumably display
the undecoded "Matrix", it is quite a disgrace for those who know a
little about computers (a hint : about how much data do you suppose a
text screen can contain? Enough to describe a virtual world or even
small portions of it?)As for the plot, it is based on the idea of people being enslaved in a
constructed world by an other race, without being able to realize it,
until there comes "the chosen one", a human who learns the truth and
eventually discovers and puts into use powers and abilities that exceed
those of the "dominant" race. This all sounds interesting enough, but
the basic problem is that the above exact lines of text can be used to
describe another movie. This movie is "Dark City" by the creator of
"The Crow". If "Dark City" was written prior to "The Matrix", then the
later lacks originality. The new elements in "The Matrix" scenario make
it seem more complex and more hi-tech, so as to appeal to the audience.
The scenario is also more pessimistic, which is the easier way to
"move" the viewer, in contrast, "Dark City" achieves the same (or more)
just by its dark and gloomy ambiance. So, both movies present a human
nightmare, with "The Matrix" being the more colorful one. The more
complex scenario, which features more technological concepts, such as
Artificial Intelligence and Virtual Reality therefore drawing more
hi-tech addicted audience, bears one major weakness : an abrupt and
unfulfilling ending. The plot arrives to a point where it simply cannot
continue, as the hero becomes almost a "god" but ONLY for the virtual
world. A scent of victory is the ending, but we immediately realize
that it is virtual (not actual) too.There is a lot of action in this movie. It's a pity the director used
too much of the old-fashioned "slow motion" technique in most of the
fight scenes, which holds back the fast action; in a few scenes the
technique was essential, but in others it was just "easier". The sound
is excellent and I can say the same for the soundtrack. Keanou Reeves
performed his best (along with "Devils Advocate") and the rest of the
cast does very well in delivering a stylish (remember "Men In Black")
and very entertaining film.So, go watch this film, but first watch it's darker flip-side by Alex
Proyas : "Dark City". As for me, I enjoyed the film, but I believe it
was not worth such a high place in IMDb's top 250. If the plot was
conceived before "Dark City", then I would rate the movie a 9/10.
Otherwise, a 7-8/10 would me more appropriate.

******
6 September 1999
10

This film is fifteen times better Phantom Menace. The story line is very
interesting and invigorating. This film is not for everybody as one would
not suspect. The Matrix is stands alone far as science fiction in the
90's.
What other science fiction movie in the 90's is worthy of what you paid
for
it. 

******
30 August 1999
10

10 out of 10. I've seen it four times. I'm buying it on DVD. Amazing. I
loved it. As a hard SF reader, I'll admit that the story is neither truly
original or mindblasting, but it hardly matters. It does make you think. A
little. But most of all - it's pure visual pleasure. Keanu Reeves looks
GREAT. In that wonderful black outfit of his, mmm, drooling garanteed. The
fact that he doesn't make the most convincing hacker ever doesn't matter
much AT ALL. And the special effects - wow. Trinity flying through the air,
looking very, very cool. And the kungfu. Okay, Keanu does some stuff that
would have sent you rolling on the floor if he didn't look so good, but on
the whole, I thought the martial arts were great. And there's guns. Really
cool people firing really big guns. Cool music, too. Go see it. Maybe not
four times (like me!) but at least once.


******
30 August 1999
10

My favorite indeed.  This movie has it all; and the acting is just as good
as the mind-blowing special effects.  The cast is great; Lawrence Fishburne
is awesome as well as Catie-Ann Moss.  No one can play Neo better than Keanu
Reeves.  A instant masterpiece, a cult classic.  BEST movie of the 90's
definitely. 10/10

******
29 August 1999
9

WARNING: CONTAINS SPOILERSForget about the screenplay, it's all about the effects`, they said. When I
went to see the film at an exclusive midnight premiere I didn't know
anything about the film. 136 minutes later I decided to never go to an
exclusive midnight premiere again. The punishment was the knowledge that I
would not be able to see the film again until its official screening one
full week later. Somehow I survived. 
The story is mind-blowing and discusses a lot of essential questions about
reality, everyday life, who each one of us is and who decided it that way.The protagonist, Thomas Andersen, not really satisfied with his existence as
an average employee, finally gets the contact he had always been seeking. A
group of matrix-resistant individuals share their knowledge about the
matrix with him and furthermore tell him that he was chosen to put an end
to that fake reality and free humankind from slavery by the machines. The
exposition of the story and the characters is great. The film starts within
the very first second but still leaves the viewer unsure about what really
is going on. Is Thomas A. Anderson only dreaming? Or is he really Neo? Is
Neo more than just a night-life name? Is Neo Thomas A. Andersons true
identity? The way the story unfolds is thrilling and the turning points come
with good timing. One of two weak points in the story comes when the
writers-directors must get Neo to confront his antagonist. Trinity at that
point has to play the poor part of bringing on the delay. The way we got to
know her throughout the film makes it anything but convincing that she would
start long talks at that rather delicate moment. 
Whoever wants to criticize Keanu Reeves for his acting probably has a
problem with actors that don't show that they are acting while they are
acting. He's not in flirtation with the audience or the critics while he's
performing. He's too busy doing a great and extremely convincing job. I have
never been a fan or something so please consider me as neutral. Lawrence
Fishburne is the most charismatic Morpheus I could ever imagine, and the
rest of the cast is the perfect choice also. Carrie-Anne Moss handles the
extremes between the cool matrix-trinity and the sensitive
reality-trinity impressively well. Stock music rarely works in movies but
when Rage Against The Machine hit it after Neo flies away in the end,
something just works. 
The Wachowski Brothers got me. I want to see their next movie. Right now.I don't see The Matrix as bringing on  easy answers. Every answer is
followed by a question, and the one in the end only becomes the one
because he chose himself to become the one. Nothing more, nothing less.
While the matrix is all clean and colorful, reality is dirty and cold. The
parts of the dialogue who deal with essential questions (like what is the
matrix`) are brilliantly written. (There's just that other  thing that
irritates me: when Morpheus tells Neo about how the machines got the power
over humankind, he says humans darkened the sky so that the machines would
stop working while the humans themselves  depended on the machines and
therefore caused their own misery.  I always raise my left eyebrow when I
see this part of the movie. Wouldn't it make more sense to say the irony
comes from the fact that humans depend on the  sunlight and that way caused
their own misery by darkening the sky? That analogy would work well with a
lot of short-sighted actions humans have come up with over the
centuries.)
It's surprising to see subjects like this being discussed in a mainstream
hollywood movie especially at that length. Since the Wachowski Brothers had
troubles to get the project financed, it might not be that mainstream
anyway. In fact, at least the outlook of the film is avant-garde.
Ground-breaking camera-technology and breathtaking choreography of the
fighting scenes team up with innovative direction. Neo's wake-up scene in
the incubator, the showdown or the white room won't be forgotten so fast.Since the first human being was walking the planet, there have been
speculations about what is real, if or how that might be proven, and what
kind of consequences that might have. Therefore not too many themes could be
more classical than the one of The Matrix. But it's not only classical, to
some it might be scary: it invites us to see parallels in our world,
igniting questions about who based on what kind of legitimacy- makes all
the rules and how much power each of us has in that game. The choice of the
theme and the way the theme is presented is what truly makes this film the
first film of the next millennium. It already has entered movie history.

******
28 August 1999
9

Actually it is not only a great action movie, the director also wants to
say
something in the movie. It's not a simple story. We have no idea whether
the
world we are now living is true or just a dream. Real or not real? What a
deep question from the movie.Those gun fighting scenes are excellent. Although they really let me think
of John Woo's films but they are still very cool.Anyway, don't miss this film. And if you like Matrix, please also try Dark
City. It is also a very interesting cult movie.

******
26 August 1999
7

I must admit that Matrix is very amazing as a show of pure images. A lot of
fx make this movie really impressive. But the basic idea (what you see is
not true) is not so new. Even the idea of a bunch of freedom-seeking hackers
has been often used in cyberpunk literature. The biggest limit of Matrix is
the lack of courage: whenever the directors are about to cross the line of a
scifi movie to enter the world of big cinema, they choose the easier way
(gunfights, a bit of Bruce Lee 20 years after).
And one last thing, the guy resurrected by the princess' kiss: so
miserable...
They tried to turn an average story into a new Blade Runner, but I'm afraid
it turned out as a Luxury edition of Johnny Mnemonic.
Rated 7 (to me) but Matrix does not go beyond the limit of a genre
movie.

******
26 August 1999
10

First of all I liked the movie very much. Why? For several reasons. First, I
generally like this kind of movies. Second, I personally enjoyed to 'catch
out' subtleties and associations concerning other movies or books. Third, I
liked the philosophy in the film, more even than the action scenes. And,
fourth of the reasons is that I understand quite well the problems Mr.
Anderson dealt with in his regular job :)
The thing most amazing was that in this movie it was almost impossible to
tell what is going to happen in the next minute... Some movies are perfectly
predictable - this one is not. Almost.
I would also make the end slightly different, but this one was also
thrilling.
Hugo Weaving is perfect in his role.
The Wachowski team did some really good work. I feel afraid to wait for
Matrix II - somehow I don't believe it is going to be as good as this one
is. I hope, however, that I'm wrong.

******
25 August 1999
9

The technological advances in this movie were by themselves enough to rock
your world....The story was very good and helped all of us "BladeRunner"
fans feed our need for a believeable looking future with the same "gritty"
feel as BladeRunner. The combination of the advanced tech with the gritty
future storyline make one memorable movie!  Hope a sequel will be considered
for this one!

******
20 August 1999
10

I've seen this film three times on the big screen thus far and I'm already
thinking of planning my next trip. This film just blows you away with an all
out style fest and a decent plot which while borrowing elements from loads
of other films (Terminator, Dark City and Total Recall spring to mind) still
manages to retain an incredible freshness over proceedings. I can't
criticise anything about the film, except possibly the cheesy Kung-Fu poses
that Keanu Reeves manages to maintain - whether this was deliberate or not
I'm not so sure. The action is incredible, the effects are fantastic and the whole sound just
hits you full on. I also loved the peculiar diction of the enemy agents -
very cool. All the main characters evolve as the film developes, making the
film much more than just a 'beat em up'. The plot, while relatively easy to
grasp is still 'there', it's not as complex as a lot of people seem to make
out but is just about right for an action movie that has got so many other
things that grab your attention, like Carrie Ann Moss's (Trinity) figure
hugging outfit and immense first fight scene. This is probably THE film which will make me go out and buy a DVD /
Widescreen TV home movie set - it deserves never to be watched on anything
less.......

******
17 August 1999
10

I just have to say that the special effects in this film are incredible. 
The one thing that made this film so cool is that they took slow motion to
the extreme and you saw bullets flying throught the air, but the camera
still seemed to move or rotate around the subject at a regular speed.  They
did this with not one, but many dozens of cameras.  Because each frame was
from a stationary camera, there was no blurring.  Anyway, if you haven't
seen this film then rent it when it comes out, but you really had to have
seen it widescreen, in a theater, to get the whole heartpounding effect.  As
for the people who didn't like it...

******
15 August 1999
9

Keanu Reeves has a limited repertoire as an actor, but when he looks good,
he
REALLY looks good!  This is a slick science fiction action thriller.
Every
moment you think you know what is going on, you get another 130 degree
left
turn.  the supporting cast is excellent.  Only Keanu Reeves could have
pulled off looking that cool in his all black outfit without looking like
a
complete idiot.  The special effects, the interaction with the
controllers,
and the sub-play within the human crew are all excellent.  Truly worth the
money.  I can hardly wait for the DVD.

******
14 August 1999
10

An allegorical look at the future of human interaction.  What is real and
how can we tell are themes.  Enlightenment through a computer!  The mystic
messages of people as diverse as Buddha, Jesus, and Hesse are woven
subtley
into a mesmerizing, edge of the seat thriller.

******
14 August 1999
10

kick ass movie
kick ass concept
kick ass effects
you can sit for days and think about the concept
cant get any better

******
13 August 1999
10

very interesting
non-stop speed for me
go for it
it is a PCgame, isn't it?

******
13 August 1999
10
Just seen the Matrix for the 3rd time, and I can't help still being
astonished! The first time was compelling - a shock. Knew I had to see
it again before the film was even over. The second time it was quite
different. Now EVERYTHING got clear, also what I couldn't figure out
the first time. This third time I'm convinced! The plot has no holes. It's a fantastic
story, the script is unpresidented in the story of sci-fi movies! It's
all so logical, and when was a sci-fi just all logical!? The story is so good that the 2nd and 3rd coming from the Wachowski's
can't simply fail. Everyone need to know more about the Matrix, and how
the "neo Christ" in the 3rd episode will save the world - that is IF he
does! The special effects are awesome, and not ridiculous as in most sci-fi
movies. The players are great, the agents are great "machines". The fun
with all the mysterious links and references are the spice of the film,
and the copying of lots of known movie scenes are so delicately done! My earlier sci-fi-best "Bladerunner" has not only been thrown second,
it's almost been demolished!!! The Wachowski's for president and vice
president. Neo for God! Matrix for 20 - let us just start believe
enough - let's start knowing it!This film is just too good to be true - genius!

******
12 August 1999
10

Years ago when I first read William Gibson's Neuromancer I had an image of
what it would be like but I didn't think at that time that I would ever see
it realised on film. But here is a film that does just that. I don't mean
that it replicates Gibson's vision, more that it conveys visually an
environment like that that first described so graphically by Gibson, with a
similar noirish darkness. This is a movie to come back to. The sooner it is
available on video the better.

******
10 August 1999
10

I consider, that the Matrix is one of the most important movies in the
late
90's. I did really enjoy the story and the visuality. I don't usually like
martial arts in the movies, but this time they were put together with
talent, so they weren't boring.
The movie really got the grip over me in the first minute and held tight
till the very last picture. And as a final pick, the sound track was
fabulous!!!!
I'm only afraid, that parts II and III won't be that
spectacular.......

******
10 August 1999
10

The person who entered the movies to watch "The Matrix" didn't get out of
it
the same one... And I am speaking for myself! I felt like I could walk on
the walls, like I could run that fast or flee from bullets... It's
hypnotic,
grandiose, detailed... Nothing bad for Wachowski brothers, which, in an
universe of movie business where we are used to watch to action movies
without any story, their job is unbelievably extraordinary. It really
takes
your breath away. You feel as if you were under effect of some kind of
drug!
Those fights are the best ones I've ever seen in my whole life, and I
don't
even like fights at all (until now), just because the truth is that those
fights look like "ballet"... Like said Keanu Reeves (probably the only guy
crazy enough to understand what was that movie all about without watching
it): "it's all about love, evolution, faith, questions, authority,
systems,
order"... To cut it short, it's impossible to say what is the Matrix...
You
have to see it!
One of the bests movies I have ever seen!!!

******
9 August 1999
10

Science-fiction is an art form, whether you write it or make a movie based
on it.
2001, 2010, Star Wars, Blade Runner, Alien, Dark City: all these are
examples of the finest art in the movie industry. Now I add to this small
list The Matrix.The Matrix´s Plot is complex and equally simple. It envolves you right
from the beginning. You (the viewer), get hints in a sparingly way, just
as
in the best Octavia Butler´s sci-fi novels. The exposition, both visual
and
verbal, is stunningly well done. It shines as a rare case of equilibrium
between the need to inform and the need to capture the spectator´s
attention.Now, all this should be enough to make it a good movie. But there is
more:
the fighting scenes, the special effects, the sound effects, the
soundtrack...and the acting.
The Brothers got it right, whatever the angle from which you look at the
movie. It´s non-stop action together with a intelligent
storyline.The fighting scenes were beautifully choreographed, and the camera´s
movement and positioning, following hints from japanese anime, is vivid
and
dramatic.
For instance, helped by the camera and special effects wizards, Carrie
Ann´s movements were simply fantastic, all the more if you consider the
fact
that she was once a model. Technological wizardry and personal physical
accomplishment well merged.You will see some magnificent visual effects, but the sound effects
surely
top those by more than a notch or two. The Brothers could have followed a
Devlin-Emmerich (ID4) type of philosophy - bigger, louder, etc -, but they
refrained from that...well, there´s only one scene where they wrecked the
balance sound-action-music ... I´ll leave it to you to discover what scene
I´m referring to.The soundtrack is almost hypnotic, it helps the plot along, it kind of
makes the characters move forward, builds their emotions...and also ours.
Some movies alienate the viewer with some too agressive music and
instrumentation, but The Matrix´s soundtrack is perfect, made
to-the-point.Keanu Reeves and the rest of the cast...well, two words for them all:
great acting. There is not a single moment in the whole movie where you
think to yourself: "0h, weak, fragile acting as usual..." Everybody, from
mr. Reeves to Ray Anthony Parker, knows their place and what they are
supposed to do exactly to the millimeter. They convince us that they(the
characters) are real.If you think of Blade Runner´s action and environment, or Dark City´s
storyline and atmosphere, you think of dense and coherent facts, not
flashy
or shocking to the point of nausea (like ID4 or Aliens IV), but solid and
attention graber...that´s the case with The Matrix.
While scary, The Matrix´s universe is an epic and brave one.The Matrix: intelligent, thought-provoking, exciting, vivid, innovative
and dramatic film-making.
You´ll love it. I did.

******
9 August 1999
10

This is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time!  The effects were
great!  The plot was (Ah!) Original.  Yes.  And, of course, everyone loves
seeing the good guys run around beating up the bad guys while dressing
fashionably.  I just enjoy watching them do things that regular people can't
do.  I can't wait to buy it.

******
9 August 1999
10

The last best movie of the Millennium! Great plot, great script, stunning
effects, trenchant acting. From the word go you are gripped and not put
down
again until you wake up the next morning... or do you really wake up the
next morning!? You'll see what I mean, as long as you watch this "must see
twice" movie.

******
9 August 1999
9

A totally orgasmic mix of effects, martial arts, suspense, and science
fiction.  By the end of the movie I was sooo excited my asthma started
acting up I almost choked.  Incredible movie.  Time will surely make this
one a classic.

******
8 August 1999
10

Saw the flick twice and got absolutely WOWED two times ! The movie holds
moments of sheer visual magic (watch out for those too short moments :
giant
spider-like nurses in the "real world"). While it succeeds completely in
setting a peculiar tone and mood, the numerous winks and outward jokes
blend
in nicely and help you get through the heavy set atmosphere and
breath-taking heart-throbbing action. To top it all, the way they (the
wachowsky guys) mix "real" scenes with FX-altered ones is just grand, you
just BELIEVE it (there is no spoon, though...)

******
8 August 1999
10

I got tickets from a contest I won, it was the very first show in
Holland.
I heard some things about the Matrix, but didn't have a clue that is was
this great. I really like the story line, it lets you think about it for
sure.
Anyway its really rocks, im sure this movie will win the special effects
Oscar.
I'll keep it short because you have to watch it!

******
7 August 1999
10

This is a very nice picture. A point of view of a not so far future. It's
very difficult that it will happen, but ... who know. The
computers/machines
evolution grows in exponential mode. 30 years ago the man step on the
moon.
What we can do in 30 more?The film remember some things of the picture Brazil.
Some ideas in the film "the matrix" about the reality were commented by a
lot of people. I.E.: "Is real the reality", a book of Paul
Watslawick.My impression of the film is the nice way that is interpreted the idea of
the reality, and how that idea is communicated to the spectator. Many
things
are perfect, like the oracle, the matrix itself, the "deja vu", the name
of
the ship and in general all the names, the training programs and a lot
more.I think:  Why they can't use cordless telephones to run out the
matrix?This is a picture to see several times and to analyse a lot of things of
it.Pd: Sorry by my poor english.

******
7 August 1999
10

"The Matrix" is a highly enjoyable film and in my opinion one of the best
I
have seen. As sci-fi it does the genre justice but what sets it apart is
the
inventive style of film-making and the innovative techniques used.
However,
the emotion depth to it is limited and a little glossy, but as a piece of
entertainment it is first class and a must-see.

******
5 August 1999
8

"Oh Yes come on Darling your love it"
Popcorn, coke, icecream, and coat to hide behind,
Ok we are ready!!!!!!
So show us what you are made of Mr Reeves!, Ok so that don't impress us.
As
the song goes, Well may be a bit.
Its going well I am liking the idea of the plot....then
"whats going on is he still dreaming or is this the real reality I don't
think I am following it very well ....Honey can you explain" !!!!!!!!!!
ssshhhhh
I might miss some of the tight leather clad woman....oops...I mean I might
lose the plot myselfI'm not going to tell you about the film, because I need to see it again
and
i could'nt do it justice anywayGo see it:-It will confuse the girlfriend and you the special
FX

******
1 August 1999
10

Ok, im in the cinema with a friend, the film has just began rolling, and i
think: this is just to slow!!!, but after about
30 minutes i begin to like this film, and i am thinking: this film is good!,
very good!. The Visual effects are on the top, the acting is great, and,
everything is great!. 1 hour and 45 minutes later, i sit outside the cinema
on a bench, and thinking something like this: wow!, what a film!, i have to
burn my film collection up! I give this film 9,9 out of
10!

******
1 August 1999
10

The movie is great.  There are some details, hard to understand, that make
the movie even better.  For example, for us martial arts fans,  it was
incredible to see how Neo's kung-fu related directly to Bruce Lee's (for
example, the part when he gets the blood off his mouth, and moves his hand.
Its the exact move Bruce does in the movie "Enter the Dragon").  There is
another example:  Has anybody thought about why is Morpheus named that way,
just as the ancient Greek "Dream God"?
These are the kind of things directors introduce, and not many people
see.Another great thing, is the clothing. Its excellent!  I think it got most of
my attention.  

******
31 July 1999
7

Yes, an enjoyable film and likely one that will likely prove influential for
the sci-fi genre, but I'm concerned at all the wild adulation this film
gets.I thought THE MATRIX was a very manipulative film, and that the stunts
(incredible as they were)and fx swamped the story. It could have been a
wonderful exercise in paranoia, a Philip K. Dick kind of tale, but instead
the film-makers opted for the Jerry Bruckheimer school of storytelling;
there's nothing really wrong with that but I just thought the film had the
opportunity to be something more, and I'm puzzled that this film's ratings
don't reflect that.Many films now just seem to be demonstration reels for cgi and there should
be more to sci-fi films than that. I don't think that people will be raving
about this film in ten, fifteen years or so in the same way as they do about
BLADE RUNNER now, a film many viewers seem to think is inferior to THE
MATRIX. Time will tell.


******
30 July 1999
10

This movie rocks.  Never have I've been so entrance by a movie since The
Crow.  I've seen this movie countless times and I just don't get tired of
it.  Carie Anne Moss was great for this role. She started the movie on such
a fast pace I was amazed.  The audiance also agreed with there ooos and
awes.  The story line was also great.  Those who think it was weak and had
no point are those who view life in certain boundarys.  They limit their
imagination and don't realize how complex the story truly is.  The story
kept me interested and the special effects blow me away.  I recommend it to
anyone and everyone.  Although, those who think within the borders must step
in the theaters and have an open mind.  It's one hell of a movie to
watch.

******
29 July 1999
8

I have read in magazines that this has taken the mantle from Blade Runner as
the best sci-fi flick ever. I think Matrix is good (best film in 99) but I
don't think it is better than Blade Runner for a couple of reasons.1. The story in the matrix was in the end pretty much find special kid,
train him up, he wins the day. 2. The sets and the acting on Blade Runner were far superior3. The bad guys in the matrix were not particularly scary and to be honest
their were pretty boring 4. Blade Runner had more levels to the plot and the characters than Matrix
which was just an action flickBut this is not to say I didn't like the movie I thought it was great,
although I didn't understand what happened at the end. They use music in the
film excellently the acting is pretty good and the fighting and action
scenes are some of the best put to film. The slow camera feature is used to
good effect in the film and because this film was a hit expect to see a lot
more of it.


******
29 July 1999
10

There are bad SF-movies. There are average ones. And good ones. There are
excellent ones as well. And there is The Matrix. One of the best SF movies
the big screen has ever featured. Every minute of the movie is full of
action and power, and I bet you've never seen such incredible slow motion
scenes anywhere. The bullet time walkthrough was filmed with 12 thousand
fps...
If you haven't seen it yet, do this. It is worth far more than the money you
pay for it...

******
29 July 1999
10

Without wanting to gush I enjoyed this film like no other in the last few
years.  My favourite film since its release was "Blade Runner" and I class
this film as being in the same league of thrilling sci-fi with superb
special effects and an exciting storyline.  Keanu Reeves stares perfectly at
the camera in closeup, although his actual acting is a little well -
Keanuesque (never having thrown the mantel of Bill and Ted) I think. Samuel
L Jackson is as cool as cool and Trinity is superb.  I will be going to see
this one again and again and await with anticipation the next film by the
brothers.


******
28 July 1999
9
The matrix makes me think to the matrices that I studied in maths that I
always enjoy.  The first thing that attracted me to the movie was that the
word "Matrix" was already used in one Doctor Who Episode: Trial of the
timelords which I enjoyed too.But let's stick the comments to the movie.  It features Keanu Reeves a well
known actor and Laurence Fishburne which I first saw him in Event Horizon. The story is well done, good plot, as in many US Hollywood movies, they
always try to tell people everything in details.The second thing is: Why do rebels always need to look cool(refering to
their black clothing except for Oracle)?The third thing: It made me thought too much to Dark City which I saw months
ago.those are the only reasons why I rate it only 9 out of
10.This is a film that will dazzle, amaze, disturb & even confuse the
viewers.Good entertainment.

******
28 July 1999
9

Keanu in his best action-flick ever (yes better than Speed!) and with
Carrie-Anne Moss and Laurence Fishburne in top shape alongside him nothing
can go wrong. 
Is that true?
Not if Hugo Weaving comes into the picture.
According to me, he steels the whole picture. What a performance!! If you´ve
seen the movie I hope you don´t disagree wth me...He created an excellent
character, and deserves a huge pat on his back.
A big + to The Wachowski brothersfor a supershow, outragous special effects
and the best dialogue in an actionmovie in a looong time!!!
9 out of 10!


******
27 July 1999
10

This is one of the best movies i've seen in quite a while. Besides the great
special effects I found the storyline really fascinating. It makes one
wonder......
Also the acting was top notch!Start believing the unbelievable.......

******
27 July 1999
10

The Matrix is the BEST movie of 1999, as well as the best sci-fi movie ever
made and also one of my favorites of all time!  The Matrix is one of those
movies like Usual Suspects which holds you from the opening credits and does
not let up til the lights come on in the theater.  By now we all know the
story behind the Matrix and how great the special effects and action was,
but I noticed that most people forgot to mention the deepth of the
story.Yes!  Matrix is an action movie, but it is also Biblical in many ways.  Neo
is Jesus... he is the "one" selected to free the people from persecution. 
Cypher is the deciple who betrayed Christ... he sold out Morpheous for
materialistic items and was then was forever banished from the real world.
Morpheous is God... the all knowing, he is everywhere, yet nowhere.  And
Trinity is the Virgin Mary, for it was her efforts which brought Neo to the
"real world".  Other references include Zion,the Nebucanezhar and the
Oracle.I have seen this film three times, will see it again at the theaters and I
am definetly going to purchase the DVD on Oct. 5.  Forget Phantom Menace,
the Matrix is IT!

******
26 July 1999
10

Great movie for adults to watch. Not once a boring part, and always
interesting in every action scene. Go into places you'd never heard
of...Plenty of weapons, and gory scenes, but still an excellant
movie!

******
26 July 1999
10

This movie breaks new ground in the world of action movies. Good story,
inovative footage and action sequences that will set a completely new
standard.

******
25 July 1999
10

This is the best film i have ever seen!!!!
The idea is original and the movie is just perfect!
I voted 10 for this movie, and you will do that too when you have seen
it!
This is really great work by Andy & Larry Wachowski!!
Tnx for a trilling movie!
Just can't wait to see your next one... hope it's SOOOON!!!

******
24 July 1999
10

This movie is marvelous.  The effects are unbelievable.  The sound is
excellent.  The action is great.  Even if you don't like Keanu Reeves (I
know so many who make fun of him), you would probably still like this
movie.
The story is one of the most original I've seen in a long time.  The
theme
may not be entirely new (boy meets girl, girl loves boy, boy saves world).
About time actors finally did their own stunts, it makes for a great and
seemless movie.  No need to hide the actors, or digitally replace faces.
It
also makes the fight scenes that much better.  Seen it more than 10 times
now, and only found one thing wrong with the film (usually find many
errors
in most movies).  Definitely see this one, I know i'm getting it on DVD as
soon as it comes out.

******
23 July 1999
10

Before I went to this movie I saw the making of the Matrix and I immediately
thought: "I have to see this movie!!!!!!". Since "Terminator 2; Judgement
Day" I haven't seen so impressive special effects, especially the "dodge the
bullets scene". The story was great, with much references to the bible,
"Alice in Wonderland" and Greek mythology.Before I went to the movie I still had my doubts about the actors and the
theme of the film. Keanu Reeves' acting in "Johnny Mnemonic" was absolutely
horrible, but than again, the script of that movie to. But he recovered when
he played an excellent role in "Devil's Advocate". Laurence Fishburne's
"Event Horizon" wasn't also, just like "Johnny Mnemonic", a great movie. It
started well (except for the music in the beginning) but crashlanded in the
end. Laurence Fishburne is
(I think) still a bit underestimated by a lot of people as an actor. He was
great in this movie. The other keyplayers of the movie were also memorable.
As for the theme of the movie, I had my doubts. I had already seen a lot of
cyberpunk or virtual reality movies that weren't worth a second or even a
first watch. But this movie was awesome!!!!!!Next to this movie, I'm still waiting for that other SF (more fantasy) movie
Star Wars: Episode I; The Phantom Menace which will be released in September
(almost five months after the US-release, it's a disgrace) . I'm a big Star
Wars fan, but I think that "The Matrix" is, or will be, the movie of 1999. I
give it a 10!!!!!!    

******
23 July 1999
10

Pretty much all intelligent literature in the 20th century has been
science
fiction, but that intelligence has never rubbed off on movie SF until
now...If you're a literary science fiction fan, you've heard the key plot points
several times each, but this is a fantastic implementation of the virtual
reality/cyberspace concept. As a movie, it's absolutely incredible.
Somehow,
they manage to make it simultaneously a wonderful action movie, a
wonderful
special effects movie, and a good science fiction movie all at the same
time.

******
23 July 1999
9

I really liked this movie. The special effects is really something else
and
the script is good too. The only downside of the movie is the ending and
that there where just a little to much talk about what the matrix was (is?
:). Besides the small glitches from perfection it's a really great
movie.

******
22 July 1999
10
Very neat indeed.In fact,I am going to see it again tonight at9.00 for the second time to be better-oriented with the storyline.I
admit,I've always been a fool for sci-fi flicks,thriller and conspiracy
films and this one is an amazing combination,I believe.We rarely have this
kind of 'intelligently and wisely' crafted science-fiction.(Total Recall,The
Abyss,2001,Blade Runner,and even Lawn-mower Man in a sense).Of course there
might be some holes which should be considered quite relative from person to
person.I wholly respect the negative-siders after reading about 50 comments
but I'm 'the one' who give this film a hearty 10 and recommend everyone to
watch it who likes brain teasing sci-fis.

******
22 July 1999
10

As one of the movies that suffered most from the suffocating PR from the
makers of "the phantom menace", "the Matrix" wipes the competition clean.
On
the opposite of Mr Lucas, the makers of "the Matrix" succeeds in making a
high tech future-vision that, in its obscureness, seems plausible. With
very
little publicity, it really got to me as fresh, new and smart, through all
the computers and cyberpunk. It kept surprising me, and it grew on me for
an
hour after it was over.
Seen it, loved it, bought the OST, recommending it.

******
21 July 1999
10

I must admit that i watched this movie not expecting to like it, i expected
a movie with no story line and tons of special effects but that's not what
was delivered.This is a brilliant movie, with some brilliant acting, and although the
special effects do play a big part the plot can hold up on it's own. I
really enjoyed it!!

******
21 July 1999
9

The first time I saw Matrix I laughed at most of the fighting scenes because
they reminded me of some Hong Kong movies featuring Jet Li. But I was
confused by the story, and therefore, I was not very impressed at all.2 months later, after we saw films such as Mummy, Entrapment, Star Wars,
Notting Hill, Austin Powers, etc., we seemed to be out of movies to see. My
friends made me go to see Matrix again, and I went into the movie once more
without any great expectations, but this time, I came out of the theater 100
percent satisfied, and yes, I was 110 percent impressed.Maybe the first time the theater being completely packed had something to do
with my previous indifference toward the movie: I kept hearing other people
laughing or talking here and there, and I failed to understand the plot
since the noises from the audience frequently distracted me from the movie. 
The second time, there was just me and 4 or 5 other guys in the theater. It
was quiet.   Sitting in a quiet theater, hearing nothing but the sounds from the movie
itself, really helped me understand more, much more. I found myself
oblivious of the vigorous (or funny?) fighting sequences, but instead, I was
actually contemplating the fundamental ideas of the movie. Though I have
never been equipped with much religious knowledge and I am not really into
special effects, I was intellectually challenged, and visually stunned.I am sure some people have discussed ideas in this movie as thoroughly as
possible and may even consider them very enlightening . I was just delighted
to find that so many of them surfaced one by one, all so fresh to me as if
they had never occurred on the screen during my first viewing.  And there
was this Keanu Reeves, whose fighting scenes amused me so much before, now
appeared to me so credible as Neo, his "dark, pretty" eyes alone seemed to
be able to tell you what Neo has to go through.  I know there are people who don't like the movie. I was once one of them.
But a second time may prove to be a charm. At least it was so for me.

******
21 July 1999
10

This one got everything: an awesome cast, good director's to handle the
film
and a plot that really makes you wonder of what's going on in the film (and
in this world;-)). When I first saw the trailer, I thought "Oh, once again
one of these popcorn-boom-boom-actioneers". I was wrong. All pictures from
the trailer appeared within the last 20-30 mins; the "rest" of the movie
was
pretty quite instead. And that is exactly what this movie makes so good: It
is not the typical "Hero-saves-world"-stuff; it is the story, the plot that
catches you and takes you deeper and deeper into this topic that our
reality
might be a perfect illusion. When I attended school we had the issue of
"What is considered to be real" in our philosophy-lessons and it really
sucked. This movie offers a way to follow the ideas it shows.So on the one hand you have a disturbing and scaring plot and on the other
hand you have techniques of making films that offer you a view into the
next
millenium. I have never seen so beautiful pictures, none have I seen so
cool
special fx (Bullet Time) or such a perfect green-screen
keying.
There are not many movies that I've seen twice; this one I saw five times
(until now)... 

******
21 July 1999
10

A speed-fuelled, retina-bending sci-fi juggernaught that proves why films
have to seen in a BIG screen. The plot is almost insignificant compared to
the riot of flashy visuals, flo-mo and Zen-lite dialogue but provides a
semi-original concept that the Wachowski brothers exploit to the full.
Keanu
is superbly confused as the hacker seeking a higher meaning to life and
unable to believe he can be the One that Carrie-Ann Moss, Laurence
Fishburne
and crew have been searching for. Hugo Weaving matches them well as the
obsessed Agent/program, leading up to a genuinely inspired face-off finale
with plenty of visual fireworks and striking imagery. Even better the
second
time round, this sets a new standard in the genre and must be giving George
Lucas pause for thought when he starts coming up with his next prequel.

******
21 July 1999
10

Wow, the work and detail they put into this movie was extravagant. The name
of each main character in a story represented their attitude and outlook
and
foreshadowed what would become of them. The animation and graphics were
awesome. Nice frames and use of camera tricks creating the illusions of
different special effects. The basic outline and plot of the story was
amazing in itself. It grabs you from the beginning and takes your mind on a
wild ride of "what if's." Not only is it great entertainment, but you'll
never look at life the same way again. All in all, -wonderful- movie. A
definite 'gotta see.'

******
21 July 1999
10

I think that movie will be a revolution in the movie market.
It is a revolutionary idea and very interesting.I recommend not to forget to see it!.

******
21 July 1999
10

This is a film for people who, like me, absolutely love artistically made
high speed action movies. The Matrix includes the most stunning combat
scenes I have ever seen. So if thought Face Off was a good one, go see
this.
Now.

******
20 July 1999
9

Wow, what a movie. When I left the cinema, I thought, The Matrix was ok not
very good. Then I got a deja-vu feeling when I saw the commercials on the
tv, and thought what a Movie.The story was great and very originally, I like it ! And the special effects
made Titanic(and Leonardo Di Caprio) sink to the bottom of the Atlantic
Ocean. I think I'm going to see the movie again.

******
20 July 1999
10

The matrix is what it is as presented in the film.  But, it is also a
metaphor for many things that make us unable to see reality as it is, such
as media, stereotypes,  and culture.  This film epitomizes what is best in
our popular culture. A great job!

******
17 July 1999
9

The Matrix is a movie that has done its "historic homework" (so to speak)
and has given us a frightening view of the future if we continue to depend
so much on computers. The special effects are top notch, especially during
the fight scenes and so is the acting.  Newcomer Carrie-Anne Moss delivers
the role of Trinity with enough attitude and sympathy to fit the part
perfectly.  Keanu Reeves improves his somewhat hit-and-miss resumé with
another gem and excellent role (as Neo) that will open more doors for him
and perhaps give him more respect as an actor.  Finally, Laurence Fishburne
gives his role as Morpheus enough seriousness and intellect to once again
display his broad range of acting ability.  Overall, The Matrix is a sci-fi
romp "think" flick that deserves not to be missed. 

******
17 July 1999
10

Not that the film needs any help -- it's a masterpiece -- but still it
does
help to see Bound by the Brothers W.  They lay out their themes there,
plain
to see.  Trust, for one.  How can two people trust each other?  The Ws
say,
if they feel they're the same person.  Bondage and freedom, for another
theme.  But that's developed more in The Matrix.  Here we have a captive
humanity held in check by the AI -- the government, essentially (in Bound,
the oppressor's name is Caesar) -- and freed by the forces of Zion (a
spiritual reality that frees the mind from illusion).  Neo and Trinity,
who
look alike (the One and the Three, reminiscent of "one God in three
persons"), share a trust and a love that gives them the final liberation.
The conceptual structure builds out from there with remarkable discipline.
Now, can the Ws keep this up for the two remaining episodes of the
trilogy?


******
17 July 1999
9

It's unusual to see a sci-fi movie that's really creative and
interesting. Most of them are just a cluster of special effects with a
poor
script. Their directors intend to entertain us with computer animations
and
amazing scenarios, forgetting that a good idea is much more attractive.
One
could number the best science fiction films ever done without having to
use
more than its fingers. 2001, Blade Runner, A clockwork orange and Alien
would be in the list. And now, so would Matrix.
It's frightening the idea of a world not in a world against
machines,
like in Terminator, but in a world where machines have already won the
battle, and human beings are trapped in a jail for their minds, living in
a
computer-designed program, incapable of realising the truth.
Not only the main idea is fascinating, but the film refers to many
different stories, like Alice in Wonderland, The Sleeping Beauty, and the
very Holy Bible, where Neo, the main character, would be The Messiah.
More,
it mixes elements from western, action, love and dramatic
movies.
Of course, it's not perfect. As Warchowsky Brothers are novices in
the direction business, the actors were poorly directed. But, in spite of
this, they made a very good job.

******
17 July 1999
10

Andy & Larry Wachowski are to be placed right alongside Orson Welles and
Stanley Kubrick in the next editions of historybooks as true innovators of
cinematography.Although the plot is a bit of ol' this an' that, the performance (on film
as
well as on computers) is sheer visual poetry.The mood in The Matrix is perhaps borrowed from Terry Gilliam (Brazil, 12
Monkeys) but that is not in any means negative.If the sound by Dane A. Davis and David Lee III (+all the
rest)
doesn't receive an Academy AwardT I'll have to eat my hat.
The audience really was listening on the show I attended, not too common
these days - that's a credit as good as any praise here.Contrary to what Morpheus might say, we now can be sure of a bright future
for mankind's creativity, the light comes from Oz.

******
16 July 1999
9

Well, so I went and saw the Matrix.
I prepared for a dose of action and jokes that is the normal outcome of a
normal US movie.  I got that.  But, to my surprise (and joy) there was some
other stuff in the movie?  Effects, plot, script and more effects...The effects strictly dominate the movie (how about Keanu Reeves flying as
superman and stopping bullets with his hands) but there is some real action
too.  Still, the plot is similar to Terminator - but is much better.So the outcome of it: Massive, action spawned movie with effects that'll get
you to believe you've landed on Mars with a pair of 3D glasses.  Good fun.
Rates 9/10 or +++ 1/2 of ++++.


******
16 July 1999
8

The Matrix is superb on some places and a bit boring on
others.
The worst thing about the matrix is the ending. It was the worst ending
ever. If they´ve done the movie so that it begun when it ended, it would be
a 10 pointer. But they didn´t so The Matrix gets a 8.5


******
15 July 1999
8

First of all, I firmly believe that "The Matrix" is a movie that demands
multiple viewings to be fully appreciated. I have only seen it once, on
July
14.Having said that, though, I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed watching
"The
Matrix". The special effects are superb and the production design is
great.
I even enjoyed the fight scenes and the shoot-outs which I normally think
are just a waste of time. The movie is almost unbearably cool. And the
scene
in which Neo (Keanu Reeves) comes walking with a black trench coat,
shades,
and enough guns for an entire platoon, is so cool that it almost hurts to
see it. And the shoot-out following that. Wow!Some people complain about the story, I say that the story is fascinating
and interesting. Sure, there are some holes in it, but overall it's good.
However, the first 45 to 60 minutes are, I'm sorry to say, mediocre and
not
good at all. I was, at times, bored during that first hour.The acting is, well... not that good. Keanu Reeves has never been a
convincing actor, but for being Keanu, though, he does a good job.
Laurence
Fishburne is the only actor in the movie that is really
convincing.It must also be said that "The Matrix" is certainly not a movie suited for
the "small screen". If you think you want to see "The Matrix" I think you
should rush to the nearest cinema immediately as you will not appreciate
it
fully renting it on video, or DVD for that matter.In short: fascinating story, great special effects, and great fight and
shoot-out scenes. I would give this movie a 7 or 8 out of 10. Too bad
about
the mediocre beginning. But one thing is for sure (and this might be a
spoiler so if you haven't seen the movie don't read the rest), considering
where the movie ends I look forward to the sequel(s) already.


******
13 July 1999
10

I don't understand why Titanic gets 
more than 3 times more Audiences.I think 
everybody should see this film.
Its almost important because it 
has so fascinating Photos and Special 
Effects.I have seen it 4 times.Best Film!!!

******
13 July 1999
10

This movie is truly an essay in superlatives: the acting, story-line,
direction, special effects, sound effects, music, editing, and overall
feel
of the film are all stunning. There are so many arcane mythological
references that even Umberto Eco would have difficulty in understanding
all
of them. You have to concentrate while watching, but the experience is
unforgettable. All people with an open mind must see this movie,
preferably
on the big screen.

******
12 July 1999
8

The first hour was pretty good. But then the next hour, it got a bit too
complicated and a bit boring. BUT, the last 45 minutes or something, was
great! There was one shooting scene, which was the most awesome scene I
have
ever seen. Those two minutes was almost worth the ticket
alone!
If you like action great special effects, you have to see this
movie.

******
12 July 1999
9

"What is the Matrix? You have to see it for yourself." And he's quite
right,
you do. These words spoken by Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne) were what
convinced me to see the film, unsure of what to expect from it. Braindead
summer blockbuster it is not - far from it. It is one of the most
thought-provoking films of it's kind that I have seen - well written and
directed by the Wachowski Brothers with some really impressive visuals.
Thomas Anderson, nicknamed Neo (Keanu Reeves), a computer hacker, is
tracked
down by Morpheus, a well-known terrorist and is offered a chance to
discover
the greatest conspiracy ever imaginable. But, he is told, he can never
return to his normal life and must help to save the world against the
agents
who are concealing the secret. That's all I'll say about the intriguing,
if
somewhat far-fetched plot, because to say too much would ruin the
experience. This is one incredibly fast-paced film, boasting so much
action
it'll blow you away. At its heart, it is a science-fiction thriller, but
The
Matrix is much more chic than you might expect. Complete with black
leather
outfits and dark sunglasses, Neo and fellow world-saver Trinity
(Carrie-Anne
Moss) fight their way through many an action sequence, some unbelievably
over-the-top, and manage to look so calm at the end of it. Although quite
a
dark and violent film, the script allows for some humour to lighten the
mood
every once in a while, and with a climax with more guns, bullets and
explosions than any war film, this has got to be the best action film of
the
year.

******
10 July 1999
8

What is the Matrix? Well go and see, hear and feel it for your self. Not
on
a small screen, but on the big screen. It`s not worth to be looking at
otherwise.The first thing I said to my self after the movie was: "Wow. I just hope
they would make a sequel". Why???? Because there is so many unanswered
questions.Maybe they just should keep it with one movie? Maybe the meaning with the
movie is to keep us wondering? I don`t know... Go and find it out for your
self... Good luck!!!

******
10 July 1999
7

From the minute the movie started, I saw that there was good planning
behind
the movie.The Movie really had a plot. Not a very complex one, except for some
people.
But it made you think, what if that was real, and all else
not. We just have to find an awakened person.The Camera angles were excellent. They almost always found the optimal
effect or angle to speed up the feeling in the scene. Halfway of the film,
it looked like it was lost, but later on it was rolling again and the show
was really enjoyable. New and amazing. Only one major "annoying" cliché in
the film though.. And a few smaller ones. Not gonna spoil someone's movie
telling about them. :)Go and see it.. It made me doubt, that should I see Star Wars: E1 after
this
experience.


******
10 July 1999
9

I just saw the film two weeks ago, and I must agree that it is a major
film,
that deserves all the good critics I have read. What are the qualities of
The Matrix ?The subject itself is interesting and the directors managed to make the
story both complex and captivating. I think that this film really shows
what
science fiction can be at its best.And of course, the film is highly spectacular. The action sequences are
very
well-made, and there is an excellent use of the special effects, as they
really serve the script, making us enter an incredible but finally
believable world.In brief, thanks to the Wachowski Brothers for this clever action flick. I
would give the film between 8 and 9 out of 10.

******
10 July 1999
9

this film is magnificent. it makes you drop your jaw, it makes you cringe,
and it makes think. the special effects in this movie are extraordinary.
on
the downside, it does lose some of its audience due to complication. but
if
you have any brain power, and enjoy using it, then i definitely recommend
you see it. you'll be disturbed, amazed, and quite possibly, paranoid as a
result. either way, this is truly a wonderful thrill-ride of a movie worth
giving a look. i give it a 9.

******
10 July 1999
8

I went along to this film expecting to see a run-of-the-mill, standard
the-big-guys-are-out-to-get-me affair - it's all been done, hasn't it?
Wrong!The baddies are bad, the goodies are good, and there is no grey area. It's
a
perfect film in that way, in that you don't have to think for it to tumble
along. That leaves it open for the ratehr complicated and frankly
terrifying
concept at the heart of the Matrix to come to the fore, and it does, with
electrifying pace and sparkle.Yes, it's deep. Yes, it's intellectual. But hell, what cool fight scenes!
The plot works in such a way that people can do Nike-ad-style jumps over
buildings and the sort of martial arts moves that aren't usually seen
outside
of Mortal Combat, and they look SO cool!This is one of the few films I've seen that affects you for a while AFTER
leaving the cinema. All films affect you in some way - but this film made
me
look about and go "Is it all real?" It's great, and very
enrtertaining.Incidentally, be prepared for the Star Wars blags. Most notable of these
are
when Morpheus is talking about the Matrix "It binds us, and holds the
universe together" and "It also obeys your commands!", as well as the
obvious "You must go to the Degoba system for your training!" These get
laughs when they're not supposed to, but only for me, 'cuse I'm like
that!Bad points? Well, It may be a little slow for some people - I personally
didn't think so, but it takes a while to get to where it's going. Mind
you,
when Keanu wakes up in that tank - it's just such a shock that it's worth
the wait.All in all, a very good film. At the time of writing, it's rated as the
20th
best film EVER on the IMDB rating - a bit high, but it's understandable. I
found myself humming Strawberry Fields Forever "Nothing is Real" through
the
film - when I start humming tunes, you know it's a goodun!In summary, go watch this film if you like to think a bit, but like cool
fight scenes and plenty of drama. The romance knackers it, but hey - it
ain't a love story! 

******
9 July 1999
9

If you asked me what my opinion of Keanu Reeves was five years ago, I
would've told you that he sucks. Now, thanks to the Devil's Advocate and
now
The Matrix, I think he's one of the most exciting actors in
Hollywood.
The Matrix is an incredible movie that will please all science fiction
fans along with action movie addicts. The best part of all is the fact
that
it also happens to be a great story that never drags and keeps you saying,
DAMN!!! Reeves does an excellent job as a computer hacker who finds out
that
he is the "chosen one" to free all human kind. Laurence Fishburn delivers
as
his mentor and whoever made those sunglasses for him to wear, deserves an
oscar nomination in costume design. Hugo Weaving is also a big part of
this
movie's success, playing a brilliant Agent Smith and is the coolest
looking
federal agent that I've seen in a long time.
The action is non-stop and the martial arts escapades are brilliantly
done. The story reminded me of the scare in the Terminator. In fact, that
may be the only flaw in the movie is that the script seems to be a slight
rip-off of the Terminator series and Dark City, both of which were better
movies. Still, I very much recommend this movie, because it is the best
movie that I have seen in 1999. I give it a 9 out of 10.


******
9 July 1999
10

A rare example of great special effects, a seriously fascinating concept,
and a well executed plot all in one, The Matrix is far and away the best
film of the year so far.  After three viewings I feel that I can grasp the
majority of the themes presented in the film, but I'm sure I'd pick up on
more upon a fourth viewing.  Many of these themes have already been
expressed in other of these reviews, but some have not (although I haven't
read all 1000+ of them):Fate: at first I didn't understand what the Oracle had to do with the
plot -
it seemed to be a mythological/religious reference that detracted from the
Christian theme running through the film.  I eventually realized that the
presence of the Oracle raises the question of fate, or more accurately,
whose reading of fate we should trust, i.e. that determined by the
machines
or that determined by the Oracle.  The Matrix is a computer program and
thus, given all of the facts, the future, or fate, can be determined.  We
are not inclined to believe that about the real world, given Heisenberg's
uncertainty principle, etc., but Morpheus and the Oracle suggest that fate
works here as well.  If both worlds are controlled by fate and thus
deterministic, then what is the difference between them?  If the actions
of
the rebels in the real world are predictable like a computer program, then
why could not a computer program be written to describe the real world as
well?Mind: the agents attempt to "hack" into Morpheus' mind, much "like a
computer" as Trinity says.  So what is the difference between his mind and
a
computer?  In fact, the film treats the mind much like a computer - i.e.
"uploading" martial arts training into Neo's mind and entering the Matrix
("downloading" your mind?).Music: the techno music played in the film again raises the question of
the
difference between man and machine - if this music is completely produced
on
a synthesizer/computer, then what makes it human?  I may be incorrect, but
I
only recall hearing the techno music in the Matrix scenes, not the real
world scenes.  [Sidepoint: why does the music on the soundtrack have to be
inevitably different from the music played in the film?  This really
disappointed me, and it's not the first time either - check out Moby's
"God
moving over the face of the waters" in the film "Heat" and on the
soundtrack.]Anyway, with a couple of exceptions (Keanu Reeves' acting, the way he
"saw"
the Matrix at the end of the film) this is a truly great film.  It's
better
than either Terminator film and sits right up there with Metropolis, Star
Wars, Blade Runner, or 2001 as the greatest sci-fi films of all time.
What
makes all of these films great is that they come up with an interesting
concept, have an enjoyable plot and great special effects, and give you a
lot to think about when the film is over (which is where the Terminator
films fail, the second to a lesser extent).   If this film gets nominated
for Best Picture it will restore my faith in Hollywood.  See
it.

******
9 July 1999
10

The special effects creates a plausible situations where reality is not
what
it seems...although the special effects are many and creative, this movie
does not venture beyond the limits of our time and thus becomes awe
inspiring.

******
8 July 1999
10

The Matrix has to be one of the best films I have seen for a long time. It
is the first film that I have bothered to go and see at the cinema for a
long time. It is not just the stunning visual effects, but the casting,
the
acting, the directing, everything was spot on. The music also fit in as if
it had been made just for the film. The Wachowski Brothers should be next
on
the list for a knighthood.

******
7 July 1999
10

At first, I thought "Oh god, not another one."  We've had the disaster
movies (Armageddon, Titanic, ...), we've had the ..., and now we're having
the "is it real or is it VR"movies (EXistenZ, ...).
But not so with "The Matrix".
OK, it's about virtual reality, but what a virtual reality!  The plot is
overwhelming, unbelievable and perfectly logical.  A real mind teaser.
The
special effects were simply fantastic.
In my opinion, it's one of the best movies of the year.  You will leave
there stunned, overwhelmed and begging for more.
If you haven't seen it, go and do so!!!
Deserves at least 10/10.

******
7 July 1999
10

The bottom line is that I give this movie "two thumbs up" and a solid 10.
It
rocks! In fact, I enjoyed it so much that I've already been to see it
twice
and -- yeah, I'm a square -- I've never done that before. Unless you're
old
and crusty, and/or terminally unhip, you'll love this movie.The central theme revolves around the state of human existence: reality,
dream or -- for today's technologically fearless audiences -- virtual
reality? A dream within a dream? And, if so, how do we break out? Is this
deeply philosophical, hugely meaningful, or merely trite? We're in plot
cliche territory. Now add a heavy "good vs evil" line and a biblical
allegory on death and redemption -- not to mention "the one" -- and some
love interest and... danger, danger Will Robinson. Sounds way hokey,
right?Well, it ain't. I don't know how they pulled it off, but these Wachowski
brothers have taken this basic concept and produced a stunning movie: a
plot
that is coherent, involving, and emotionally moving; a cool script; LOUD
soundtrack; loads of great fight scenes; supercool special effects; and
good
acting (especially Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith, Laurence Fishburne as
Morpheus, and -- surprise, surprise -- Keanu Reeves as
Neo).This film is LONG, nearly 2 and a quarter hours, but I sat there and
enjoyed
every minute. This was as close to cinematic perfection as I think I'll
ever
get.

******
6 July 1999
7

Felt a bit disappointed with this one. Bags of eye candy, certainly, but
all
the best bits were shoved into the trailer, so there weren't any big
surprises. The moving freeze frames were quite nicely done, but I found
the
martial arts sequences quickly became boring.Whether the pretentious symbolism works or not doesn't really matter
(Christ, Alice in Wonderland, etc. - hey, original, guys!), but given the
amount of money spent on this film, couldn't they have come up with a
better
script? This screenplay is Cameron-awful. The best moment is the in-joke
when Keanu does his 'woah!' Brought the house down when I watched
it.The acting is pretty variable, too. We don't expect much from Keanu at the
best of times, but to see an actor of Hugo Weaving's talent reduced to a
snarling, stereotyped villain is saddening (and why does he talk so
slowly -
was he having trouble with the accent?). I suppose the Reservoir Dogs
uniforms are quite fun.Easily the best bit is the sequence with the Oracle. Beautifully
underplayed. If only the rest of the film had been this subtle.
Admittedly,
the break-in at the top security building has an energy and style which is
impressive. And I will confess that charging down a corridor with two guns
blazing in your fists, while wearing a dark coat and sunglasses, is pretty
cool.(Those sunglasses were everywhere, weren't they? Even in dark rooms. Do
these characters have a sight problem? Is that another piece of symbolism?
Do I care enough?)I give it 7 out of 10, for the visuals, and for evidence of some
intelligence at work. But, boys, when you come to do the sequel, do think
a
bit more about the dialogue, and stop pretending you're George Lucas,
because he's not exactly the world's greatest screenwriter.

******
6 July 1999
8

I enjoyed this movie, but I don't think it merits as much excitement as it
has generated.This is an action movie that borrows some familiar ideas from paranoid
science fiction. The photography and other production values are
outstanding. The action sequences are the best you'll see anywhere (see it
on the big screen if you can). The acting (except Fishburne, who's got a
screen presence you can practically weigh, and who's perfect for his part
here to boot) is merely passable. The plot details (some of them) are
laugh-out-loud ridiculous. Well, I laughed out loud, anyhow, but I'll
admit
I may have been the only one.In a lot of ways, this movie feels like it was adapted from a comic book -
there are questions and details about the back story that the movie never
answers or explains adequately, and some parts of the plot seem rushed or
glossed over. In fact, I think it might have worked better if it took a
hint
from the X-files, and left even more detail unexplained and mysterious -
it
would be better than silly, disappointing explanations,
anyway.The Matrix recovers from it's flaws pretty well, and tells an absorbing
tale. Despite the violence, it does manage to hint at how
thought-provoking
science-fiction movies could be, if Hollywood didn't insist on all the big
explosions.All in all, an action movie with above-average intelligence - for an
action
movie.


******
6 July 1999
10

One of the best films I have ever seen.I will be totally honest with you.  I didn't know what to expect when I
came
to see this movie.  It looked interesting from the previews and movie
trailers I saw.  However, it really didn't hit as being a excellent film
until I saw it.  Now I can't get enough of it.The plot is one of the most interesting I have ever seen and the fight
scenes are probably going to be voted as the best ever filmed.  Sure,
there
was a few corny parts to the movie, like the love interest they threw in.
However, that does not detract from how good this movie
is.If you see one movie this summer....go see the Matrix.10 out of 10

******
5 July 1999
8

What's there to say that hasn't been said? The effects are spectacular, the
visuals are very stylish, and the premise might even be considered original
(in Hollywood terms, at least).I had a few problems with this, though. Keanu Reeves, as usual, was
terribly
unconvincing as the hacker Neo (see lines, "Whoa!" and "I know kung fu!"),
and Hugo Weaving was laughably bad as Agent Smith. Parts such as the fight
between Neo and Morpheus (Fishburne) are amusing, but don't need to be
there, and they ruin the feel of the rest of the movie. I was also
disappointed as it became a total action flick in the last few minutes. In
these scenes, it seemed as though the concept of the Matrix was just a
vehicle to allow Keanu Reeves to look slick and shoot things. Granted, it
was fun, but it seemed as though they didn't know where they wanted the
movie to go, and decided to throw in some random action
sequences.Despite these flaws, I think this was a strong movie with great visuals and
a fascinating premise. I wasn't exactly blown away by the idea of false
reality like some other people (probably because I've considered it
before),
and I don't think it was as deep as some people say, but it was still
interesting, original, and (above all) stylish.

******
5 July 1999
10

The Matrix is one of the most stimulating and well executed movies I have
seen in quite awhile. I simply cannot understand how anyone would not like
this movie! The visual effects are simply awesome and immaculately done.
There is not one moment when you feel that none of this could be
happening.
This is a movie with action, special effects up the wazoo, and, unlike
most
action films, it has a superb and enveloping story. The story is somewhat
far from everyday life, but that aspect is what makes this film so
mystical
and intriguing. The concept of the Matrix really makes you wonder if
this could be a possibility. All in all, I would say this movie is
definitely worth the trip and the money. Unlike other huge disappointments
(Star Wars, The Mummy), The Matrix is "The One."


******
3 July 1999
7

In 1976 the English tv series "Doctor Who" featured a collective of
unconscious thought as part of a computerised reality called "The Matrix"
in
a story called "The Deadly Assassin". I just thought I'd mention it.
Because
that, like the BLATANT product placement for Nokia (including the
slow-motion falling mobile phone)is one of the detracting elements from
the
movie.
But, of course, the biggest detraction is, ironically, the praise. For,
when
you're about to watch a movie that has five-star reviews in every
publication, and has entered the IMDb top 20, then actually seeing it is
bound to be an anti-climax. Even Citizen Kane didn't grab me the first
time
round due to this effect.
Yet having said all that, The Matrix IS a good movie - I gave it seven out
of ten. Maybe I'm weird, but the film contained no concept or twist that I
haven't already thought of, no surprise twist, nothing I didn't expect.
Why do all Hollywood films need to contain at least one
scene where characters do a "humourous" double-take? Lastly, the moral at
the end was forcing it down the viewer's throat and a slight to the
intelligence, but these were the only truly jarring points.
The characters were refreshing three, or at least two-dimensional, with
only
a couple of the cast there as the "destined to be cannon fodder" variety.
Direction and lighting is excellent throughout, if a little showy, and the
structure is maintained well. For a film that is roughly one hour
exposition, one hour pure action, it holds together very well. But does
this really deserve to dent the top twenty when
Twelve Monkeys is (at date of writing) outside the top
250?

******
2 July 1999
9

I'll be honest here, I had no interest in seeing The Matrix.  It was my
opinion that this was going to be a convoluted mumble jumble film.  I had
pre-conceived notions going into the film and I tried hard to stick with
them.  It is a strange thing really, because I try to like a film more
than
dislike, but I had such ( at the time ) an anti computer film attitude.  I
have always thought that computer films were the same.  But I am happy to
say that I was so wrong.  Man was I wrong.First let's get the comparisons out of the way.  The 13th Floor and The
Matrix have similar themes, but that is where the similarity stops.  I
don't
think the makers makers of either film copied each other.  After all, with
this subject matter, there is enough to easily make two different films.
Both films are excellent in their own right and as I said when I reviewed
The 13th Floor, the only reason that The Matrix did better business is
because it was marketed better.  And don't forget they seemed to copy a
previous film that came out earlier called Dark City.Keanu Reeves plays Neo.  In his other life, he is a computer hacker with a
seemingly normal job.  But he has inner demons.  There is a part of him
that
believes something is wrong with the world.  And then finally one day, he
is
given an ultimatum by a stranger.  He can learn all the secrets that he
believes are out there or he can stay in his drab life and never know the
truth.  What do you think he does?  Hmmm.He is taken into a world by a bunch of renegade freedom fighters led by
Lawrence Fishburne, who plays Morpheus.  And this is where I think the
strength of the film lies.  It is here that we learn what the Matrix is.
And of course I don't think anyone reviewing this film is going to give
away
what that is, but just saffice it to say that it will stay with you for a
while, especially if you are like me and occassionally question reality
every now and then.The true strength of this film is not just Reeves, but Fishburne.  I
remember seeing Fishburne in a little known film called Deep Cover.  I
thought he was outstanding in that film and I was convinced that was his
best work.  That is until the Matrix came out.  Here, he has a similar job
as Michael Biehn had in the original Terminator.  It was his job to
explain
to us, the audience, what was going on and how it was all possible.  And a
script like this is a delicate thing to handle.  There is so much
information that it would be easy for another writer and another director
(
fortunately they are the same here ) to give us a condensed version of
what
is in the film.  But they are brave enough and have confidence in their
material to tell it the way it should be told.  And for that I am so
thankful because it is really an intelligent story.So much has been made of the visuals in this film and I guess I would be
remiss if I didn't at least comment on them here as well.  They are
outstanding.  You will never see better stunts in any movie.  The
choreography is so perfect it really is like watching a perfectly executed
martial arts routine.  It flows so well that it makes you feel like you
are
there experiencing what is happening.  I don't think I will ever forget
some
of the fight scenes in this film.  They are sheer brilliance.But mostly what is enjoyable about The Matrix is the questions that it
asks
and how it answers them.  What is the Matrix?  Well, well I'm not going to
give it away.  As I said it is one of the parts of the movie that will
keep
you intrigued and will astonish you at the same time.  This is a very good
film and it's visionary outbursts are worth the price of a rental alone.
But it has a great story to it as well and that should be enough for
anyone
to want to see it.

******
30 June 1999
9

When I went to watch The Matrix I thought the special effects were going
to
be the selling point in the movie... gladly I was wrong. I found out to my
surprise that the story and the psychological emotional elements of the
story were profound and so thought provoking.
The Story (psychologically) you need to think!1) The actual idea and conception of the Matrix is really frightening to
the
extent that we begin to see that humans who create technology then are
enslaved by it(much better than Terminator 2 in storyline). This reminds
me
of our present situation where computers and genetic engineering is slowly
changing how we live in 1999. Science is slowly making us slaves and we
are
doing nothing about it, we don't even care or notice it but accept it as
progress. This movie is an early or late warning signal - will anyone take
notice?!2) This movie is about the bible and how Christ saves us from the demons
(the men in black with sunglasses). We see birth and incarnation,
prophecies
of the coming messiah and the search for this messiah. We see sacrificial
love and ultimate betrayal (Judas) and people in sin but do not realize
it.
The fact that many people miss this plot twist in the movie makes me feel
very very sad and proves that people are deluded and have not got a
working
or spiritual knowledge of the bible and what Christ did for humanity. The
bringing down of the divine to the enslaved earth. If these points do not
create any form of emotions I feel sorry for humanity in
general.Rating 10/10PS
If you liked this movie which makes you think,  also watch: Total
Recall(1990), The Usual Suspects(1995) and particularly Vertigo(1958) by
Alfred Hitchcock and ask yourself the question;  where do dreams and
nightmares start and end?

******
29 June 1999
9

When you first see The Matrix, you find yourself in front of whole new
concept of the world. You realize that maybe things are not the way they
appear to you, but they can be part of someone's else dream, for
example.This vision of reality, in addition to great action scenes and comic-like
costumes, scenography, dialogues and shots makes this movie one of the
greatest in its genre.

******
29 June 1999
9
... finally a great SF movie, which can offer Special Effects AND
a good
story: In the tradition of Lem and Dick - and even a bit of
"Dune".
Go and watch it ...

******
29 June 1999
9

I saw this movie twice, and probably am going to see it once again. This
is
a superb film which combines action with science fiction and adds some
philosophical questions too. I read some comments which say that the story
is crap, but that isn't the point. The point is that it makes you think!
The
Matrix is just a story of an interpretation of reality and we all do that
once in a while. We all sometimes question what is real and what is not.
The
Matrix is an enormously rich movie, that's why you should see it more than
once.The first time you can sit back and just enjoy what you are seeing, and
you
will see much. During the first part of the movie not just Neo is
introduced
into 'another' world, but we as viewers are too. And it just takes you
away.
Only super objective people can say that they are not 'sucked' into the
movie. You won't be bored, I can guarantee you. The visual aspects are
astonishing, the action scenes are perfect and don't forget the
soundtrack!
First of all it's a super action movie.The second time, when you know what is going to happen, you can think
about
what you see. The story has pretension, it's about rethinking all that is
familiar. Is the world what it seems to be? The symbolism within the movie
is also overwhelming: it's Plato's cave mixed with the story of Jesus
Christ. Sometimes you will see flaws in the storyline (especially in the
end, when I started thinking we were in an adaptation of Snowwhite), but
that doesn't matter, because after the movie has ended, it's just fun
thinking (and talking) further about it.
Imagine the moral implications of it all: especially the Cypher-character
is
interesting. What would we do in his situation? In general: Who is good
and
who is bad in the movie? Is that distinction possible?I can really recommend this movie to all moviegoers, I'd rate it 9 out of
10. (By the way: Laurence Fishburne is magnificent)

******
29 June 1999
10

I am totally biased towards this movie because it makes you think
about
if what we believe is true or not. I enjoy movies that tease the brain,
and
not the flesh. The Matrix is definitely that. You have to look at the
movie
from a technological view in order to enjoy it. The special effects
were
awesome, and I appreciated the fact that the language was not that
bad.
No, the plot was not one that I expected, but the action made up for that.
I
do not recommend this movie for children under 18 - their minds
probably
won't grasp it - but I do recommend it to adults who like to see movies
that
are out of the ordinary. I am waiting for it to come out on videotape/DVD
so
I can hear it through my surround sound system.
I enjoyed this movie.

******
28 June 1999
10

The Matrix is brilliant with it's 'in your face' action and subtle humour,
I
do believe that this is the Star Wars beater that nobody thought existed.
If I could have, I would have given it a rating of twenty stars.  The
fight
scenes were like poetry in motion and the effects rate a full ten on the
'Wow that's amazing' scale.

******
28 June 1999
10

First of all, i want to say that this movie is one of the best movie's
ever
made in almost every aspect. but instead of describing how great it is. i
want to point 3 thing that lacked in this movie.
1. the audience was never told why neo started wondering about the matrix
and why did he want to find the answer to the question: what is the
matrix?
what made him find out about the existence of the matrix?
2. i wish that the character of trinity had more aspects then just the
romantical aspect in this movie. i wish that her character was more
developed.
3. i wish that the audience would know more about the oracle character.
again, i wish that this character was more developed.other than those 3, i think this movie is (almost) perfect.

******
28 June 1999
10

The Matrix HAS to be the best movie of 1999.  No question about it.  I
have
seen the movie 3 times and never got tired of it.  In fact it keeps
getting
better every time you see it.  If any of you out there haven't seen it, GO
NOW!  SEE IT!!I would recommend this movie to EVERYONE.Who knows, maybe what the movie says is true...

******
28 June 1999
7

I realize it's hard to be original, and that similar stuff has been done
over & over again... but I was still kind of disappointed when a week after
seeing the movie I was watching an old Dr. Who (from the '70's I think)
where he has to mentally enter into the Matrix to battle the Master who
controlled the reality in the Matrix.  What happens to him in the matrix
happens to his
body in the "real" world as well... he tries to deny that the virtual world
is real & has any hold over him. etc. etc.Although not as cute, Tom Baker's a better actor than Keanu Reeves  and the
ending wasn't quite as predictable either - all it lacked was the fancy new
effects.

******
27 June 1999
10

For any of you people out there who haven't seen this, get out there and
see
it! What are you doing waitin?!? This has got to be one of the best movies
I
have ever seen!!Forget Star Wars... this movie has got a good story line (How many action
movies can say that nowadays?). One thing... if you do go see it, pay
close
attention to what is going on in the plot, it may be kind of hard to
follow
with all the eye-candy pulling on your attention.

******
26 June 1999
10

The Matrix is probably the most visually stunning film I have ever seen.
The fight scenes simply take your breath away, and leave you in a state of
wonder.  The slow-motion filming of the gun battle scenes is of first
class
proportion.  As stunning as this film is visually, the story is of the
highest class, spun out over two and a half hours or so, blending in
perfectly within the films context, that being action/sci-fi.  Despite the
complexity of the film, it was surprisingly easy to follow, the reason for
that fact lies in the majestic storytelling that is conjured within The
Matrix.  One word to describe this film would have to be awesome.  Don't
even think, just go see, and be amazed.  I promise you will not regret it.
The Matrix is an experience of film-making all of it's own, simply of a
different class.

******
26 June 1999
10

Is this real? or is it not real? what is real? how do you define
it?
Is it what you can fell, taste or smell??
What if I wake up in the morning and go to work? is it still a
dream?
All these questions are what The Matrix deals with.
Are we living what is real?? or are we controlled by another being that is
manipulating our lives for it's own good??"The Matrix is the world that has been pulled over your eyes to hide you
from the truth."
"What truth??" Says Neo.
Well that is for you to find out in this epic motion picture.
The movie outlines the story of a computer programmer named Thomas
Anderson
who is at nights a hacker named Neo.
Neo is always looking around for a thing known as The Matrix until one day
he is called to meet Triniti who will show him all that he needs to
know.It's not just a chip-off-the-block high octane action, it has humor in it
and some drama if you want to call it that way.
You can classify it no better than "Forget everything you know and
seen".
They got that right.
I usually happen to spit out one-liners at some scenes to what eventually
will be the thing the actors will say.
It worked in The Mummy, but not here.
I tried a few times but given up when I saw I just wasn't getting it
right,
they made it completely new and thrilling.Some said that the special effects in The Mummy will blow you away.  Well,
I
guess in The Mummy they only used a simple pump shot gun because here it's
freaking C-4.
It's totally amazing how they did everything look so to the point and
reliable.And as a conclusion I can only say this: What would you think if someone
would come up to you one day and say that nothing is real, it doesn't
exist
and you have to make it all better?
"No one can be told what The Matrix is.  You have to see it for yourself."
Trust me, he knows what he's talking about, I went to see it, it was worth
every second and I'll go see it again.

******
25 June 1999
8

I went in reluctantly and came out, well, impressed.  The effects are
spectacular, there is no getting away from it.  Keanu Reeves is adequate,
it
still remains to be seen whether the boy can actually act.HOWEVER, there must be more clever ways of achieving your objective than
dressing in lots of black and blasting away at your enemy with a huge
arsenal of guns, a la Terminator, or kicking his face in a la Jackie Chan,
even if your enemy is created by the most powerful mainframe on earth.
Perhaps on-line chess?  OK OK, but you know what I mean.Why is the future always portrayed as being so bleak? Even a
computer-generated future seems to be colourless and void of all beauty.
If
The Matrix was a better place for us holographic human batteries to live
in,
maybe there would be no dissidents for the computer to worry about, so it
can't be that clever.Then again, what do I know?  I am just a girl.

******
25 June 1999
9

The beauty of sci-fi is in the details....When writing, an author has
fairly
limitless license to fire the reader's imagination with such
amplification.
A movie has not such luxury. There are time contstraints, dangers of
trying
to do too much. The writers of 'The Matrix' do an outstanding job of
tantalizing the imagination without burdening it with superfluous
information. The visual effects are unparalleled in anything I've seen
recently (sorry George--there was simply too much to see in TPM), and the
presence of humor rounded out this film's combustibility. In addition, the
blending of drag-down, knockout, kung-foo commando is very well-done. My
one
reservation (and the reason why I only gave the film a 9) is the
non-conformity of the romance. It was gauche and heavy-handed.  The
writers
didn't need to dumb things down so much for the viewer. There were several
intimations of what the Oracle had told Trinity, and they could have left
things less implicit in the end...But in a movie where everything else is
done so well, why complain? When all is said and done, I'd equate 'The
Matrix' to the 'Ender's Game' of sci-fi novels.

******
24 June 1999
9

I'll not waste your time repeating the storyline but here are a few
pointers.Excellent film making.  At times gothic, a touch of Hitchcock here, a bit
of
Star Trek, B5, TRON, it's all there.  Even the basic concept and several
aspects of the overall theme are borrowed.  Acting is, in the main, good
although Reeves is weak but...........It doesn't matter !!!!!  Go with an open mind and see this film. Forget
about Star Wars its mindless, childish pap.


******
24 June 1999
10

This is terrific fun, the last time a picture had this effect upon me it
was
Star Wars back in the 1970s.I didn't find the storyline as convoluted as some claim & soon got the
hang
of what was going on. Basically it plays to every teenager's feeling that
reality is somehow flawed & that they can just perceive this, not from the
outside, but right on the edge. The Matrix takes that to fantastical
extremes.The special effects are superb & the violence graphic. This is the first
time I've ever seen a true representation of what a rifle bullet will do
to
scenery for a start! But don't let that distract you & certainly don't go
to
see it just for the effects, there's a staggeringly good plot in there
too.All the actors are well chosen, with what must be a first, Keanu Reeves
proving he can act. It's good to see him a in decent part like this, the
best he's played since Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey. Lawrence Fishburn is
always a bit wooden for me, but he's perfected his persona & plays it for
all he has which fits this film like a glove. With the support of Carrie
Anne Moss sex oozes from all the lead actors. This is a very well thought
out series of images, even the bad guys are cool, have depth &
interest.There's little doubt that the action sequences have been heavily
influenced
by the likes of John Woo & his contemporaries in the Hong Kong school of
direction. It could have been rather over the top & might have dominated
things, but it's well pitched & adds to the mix just right.There's little to fault the plot, although the story rather skips any
explanation of why Reeves is "The One" this is understandable. Also anyone
who knows about the Second Law of Thermodynamics may object to the
explanation of how the humans are kept fed by the machines, since it's a
cold world with no sun by the look of it. But these are very, very minor
points.Overwhemingly this is a staggeringly good film, it has plot, style,
sexyness, good effects & gripping action. For your dollar or your pound,
this has to be the bargain of the year, giving far more in one sitting
than
all the others I've seen this year.Only one question remains. Was it a good thing to release humans from the
Matrix? After all it's possibly humans that screwed up the world
environment
in the first place. Inside the Matrix they still live in the comfort of
the
late 20th Century, oblivious to the suffering & struggle that would await
them in the real world of 2199 ad. An interesting dilemma,
no?

******
24 June 1999
8

All the images of the Matrix were very powerful, with much eye for detail,
and the special effects were subtle, not overdone but masterful. Here and
there, the story was somewhat cliche, I thought. The prophecy of 'The One'
who would 'set humanity free' sounded a bit like Star Wars, if you see
what
I mean. Also, without wanting to give away too much, there were elements
in
the of human-machine interaction that were not very convincing... if you
start to think about it. But it was only when I left the cinema that I
started to think about the weak spots in the plot.
Of course there is plenty of unbounded violence that accompanies this film
which doesn't really appeal to me. It seems to go with American cinema
somehow. I'd appreciate it if they'd stop that.
Having said that, there were moments in this film that left me gasping.
But... you can't be told what The Matrix is. Go and see for
yourself!

******
23 June 1999
10

- brilliant acting by Hugo Weaving - very stylish - very artistic - cool
kung fu moves - subtext is sound, ie philosophy of reality, neurology -
cool
sunglasses - nice wardrobe


******
23 June 1999
10

The Matrix is one if not the coolest movie of the millennium providing the
audience with plenty of high adrenaline action and spectacular SFX, also
the new flow cam technique adds to the coolness! Unbelievable!!

******
23 June 1999
10

Okay..  Let's see..  First time I've tried to write anything like
this..The Matrix.. "what is the Matrix?" In the movie, the answer given is along
the lines of: "No one can be TOLD what the matrix is..  It has to be seen
for yourself.."  Well..  its about as true IN the movie, as about it.
It's
a brilliant story about a man awakening into a world much different from,
yet still the same as, what he is used to...
It's a movie with Special F/X to make your mind bulge...
It's a nightmare neatly wrapped up in a dream...What can I say?
- Morpheus! I'm ready! Hit me with that jellybean of yours!!

******
22 June 1999
10

It is the best movie I've ever seen!  The effects are astounding, the
actors' martial arts techniques are perfection, and the plot well thought
out.  Personally, I was very much inspired by this movie.  It shows a
world
where there are no limits and anything is possible.
The role of Neo was perfect for Keanu Reeves because he, like Neo, has
that
mysterious aura.  It worked out very well for the movie.  Carrie Anne Ross
was empowering in her role as Trinity.  I loved her quiet
authority.
I particularly liked how there were various philosophies combined to send
an inspirational message.  Actually there were many messages the movie
sent
across.  Question "reality", "What is real?",  letting go of doubt and
fear
and freeing your mind, etc.  I liked when Morpheus said, "...There's
something wrong with the world.  You don't know what it is, but it's
there,
like a splinter, driving you mad."  The movie brings up a lot of questions
about reality.
Please, if you haven't seen it yet, GO SEE IT!!!  It's well worth the
money
even if you're not into science fiction.  It makes you think.


******
22 June 1999
9

Well, although the story isn't the newest one (bad AI takes
over the control), the special effects and the way it is
made
is really totally different to the 'old' sci-fi action
movies.
I was really impressed and stunned by those slow-motion
action
sequences. They are damn great!
Don't expect too much story, expect great action!!

******
22 June 1999
10

The Matrix is one of (if not the most) coolest film ever made!It has
revived
Keanu Reeves' career entirely and is a must see for everyone. The only
problem I can see for this film is that when it comes out on video it may
lose its effect unless everyone has 16" T.V's with digital surround
sound!
The FX were immense. It has definitely broken into my number 5 films
ever!

******
22 June 1999
10

keanu reeves is the one, and i'm telling you that this film is the one.
Just
imagine combing the best gun fights with good kung fu and a gripping plot,
and you have the matrix in a nut shell.
the film is made by the most amazing special effects you'll witness for a
long time, and it is these that make the gun fights seem in a class of
their
own. For those in the know, you'll be happy to hear that for raw creative
inspiration, john woo still has better gun fights, but it is only through
the
massive budget and presence of computer generated special effects that the
matrix seems to have better gun fights.this is the best film ever

******
22 June 1999
7

It's obvious that the directors have seen a lot of movies from Hong Kong
and
the fact that Yuen Woo Ping also worked on this film as martial arts and
stunt director has left it's mark on this movie. This movie has all the
trademarks of a Hong Kong action movie. Beautiful visuals, furious martial
arts sequences,
lots of wirework, over the top violence bordering on the cartoonish and
last
of all a story which falls apart once you start thinking about it. Go see
this movie for the visuals and action/stunt sequences. The acting is lousy
although not a hinderance because there's enough going on to grab your
attention. All in all an entertaining picture.

******
21 June 1999
8

The Matrix is a good movie and worth watching. It's a combination of
philosophy(what's real of what we perceive; see Locke,Hume,Berkley,etc.),
science fiction and hong kong action movies. This combination makes the
film
great and unique. I think because of this fact everybody is loving
it.
Here in the Netherlands the critics are crazy about this film. Especially
the action sequences are unique; so they say. Obviously they've never seen
hong kong movies before because the action is more or less a copy of the
best(!) hong kong flicks. I don't know who picked Yuen Woo Ping to
choreograph the martial arts but whoever did it definitely knows his kung
fu. Although Keanu Reeves for ones wasn't irritating in a movie I would've
picked another person to play the lead; Keanu looked stiff in the kung-fu
sequences. (Laurence Fishburn looked great.) I was a little bit
disappointed
that there wasn't a stick fight in the movie. If somebody can choreograph a
great stick fight it's Yuen Woo Ping.Overall a good and original movie with somewhat disappointing kung-fu.
(They've copied Woo's action style great though)  8,5/10

******
21 June 1999
10

After having seen this film for the second time around, I think that
although perhaps not as forceful, it was worth seeing again.
As some other reviewers have mentioned, the "reality" idea that the film
is
based on is not particularly new. However, I feel that this film should be
given credit as - for what is at face value just another Hollywood action
movie - it has brought many interesting ideas to a new
audience.
The film starts off very nicely - it doesn't assume the audience is
completely stupid and the full backdrop to the story is only revealed
after
you have already been hooked and reeled in by the intriguing events.
Although the films justification for the central premise is somewhat
tenuous
to say the least. There are also a few cheesier moments in some of the
action sequences which I think would have been better left out as at some
points you are uncertain as to whether or not you should be laughing at
them.
Apart from these admittedly minor grievances, I think the film is
extremely
well directed. The camerawork is excellent and the chases and gunfights
are
the best I have seen for a long time. The acting from Keanu Reeves is
competent, but not outstanding. What makes this film so good is that the
filler scenes are also extremely good - Hugo Weaving is brilliant as the
intimidating agent, and Laurence Fishburne puts in a good effort as
Morpheus.
The script is good although a little cliched at times, but then that's par
for the Hollywood course.
The film is in a similar vein to Twelve Monkeys, only with a more Blade
Runnery feel, and although I think that both of these films are ahead of
The
Matrix, anyone thinking of seeing an action or scifi film should
definitely
watch it - there hasn't been anything this good on in ages. It definitely
beats Existenz into a smoking pulp.


******
21 June 1999
10

This film is one of pure genius, with Reeves back to what he does best,
and
Fishburn overflowing with coolness. If you haven't already seen this film
then you don't know what you're missing. A film which sets new standards
in
the action genre which many films will have to comply with (which can only
be a good thing). This film has everything and is for everyone.  I have
seen
this twice, and it's just as good the second time. I bet George never saw
this phantom menace coming!

******
21 June 1999
10

At last an original idea.Did you ever imagine that we would see the likes of this from Hollywood? A
clever, witty, ORIGINAL script.Yes the effects are dazzling, yes it is a VERY cool film (go and buy the
long coats and sunglasses now!), but overall this is just a damn clever
film. It never takes itself too seriously, and twists and turns
unexpectedly, haven't had so much fun since the Usual Suspects
or...ohhh.... Vertigo?All the characters are wonderfully underplayed (whether on purpose or
not),
the visual effects will astound, the plot will turn your brain inside out,
and the script will have you thinking for weeks...Destined to be placed high in future Top 100s lists, see this film in the
cinema while you can. Whether you are an effects fan, you appreciate a
well
written storyline, or want to ponder the giddy heights of Zen philosophy,
use which ever guise you wish to see this film, but DO see
it.

******
21 June 1999
9

I have - finally - just seen The Matrix, it took me quite a while to
persuade my wife to see it too, and let me sum up this way, I went to
watch
the movie, she went to look at Keanu Reeves, yet her comment when we left
the cinema was, "it just won't leave you alone, will it".I will choose not to comment on the Special Effects, because as all know
they
are stupenduous. What I will comment on is the movie it
self.It is the kind of movie that won't leave you alone after you've seen it.
There are so many things in it that you look at when you see it the first
time and say "Why did this/that happen here?" and yet the explanation to
almost all comes sometime later. Thus seing it a second time gives you all
the more information, because you are prepared for the riddles, and are
thus
able to appreciate the movie better.The plot itself is rather thin, but that doesn't matter, as it is carried
nicely in the telling of the movie, The Messiah's personification is
perhaps
going a bit too far, and is in my mind one of the things that deduct from
the movie.Also the image of the "Agents", the first time they are introduced, the
image that comes across reeks of "Men in Black" their clothes, and
sunglasses. This is a pity, because it makes it harder to take them
seriously. Something that they most definitely are.But apart from this, it is not the last time I have seen this movie, I'll
be
going back to the cinemas soon for a second time.A 9/10 for a great movie.

******
21 June 1999
10

Ok, maybe the argument is weak... The possibilities of a world in
suspension, can be more than the story tell us...But the sequence of images, the "flow" between one scene and other, the
visual possibility of be there, like an omnipotent witness, who can´t stop
the time and accelerates it it´s, for me, the best of this motion
picture...The great mix of images, music and performances give us great action
scenes
(maybe not the better ones in the history, but...) that make you ask...
"Real... What is real, Neo????"Control of the reality... the dream of all human been.. This picture give
the impression to be the push of a new generation of "virtual" dreamers
(hackers)... They believe in freedom beyond the system... This motion
picture, will be the emblematic of them... A colt has born!!!!!

******
20 June 1999
9

The Matrix displayed a lot of depth script wise and acting wise. I enjoyed
it immensely and found it to be very interesting which is something found
rarely in this time of making movies in a month without caring if the
audience will actually like the movie. The Matrix also has a great last 45
minutes of action which is similar but better than hackers. the acting was
great because each member of the cast really cared about this movie, you
could tell. They cared so much that the movie took almost a year to make.
I
recommend this film to everyone and if you can see it in the cinema it
will
be worthwhile. 

******
19 June 1999
10

Would you take the red pill or the blue pill? Such a question of unknown
life-changing capability has changed the lives, or the views of their
lives
of many individuals.A film with such mind-blowing power and complete and utter sense of
rocking
your every day normal lives needs a lot of explaining, so get this: What
if
our every day normal lives were really just a dream, and we are used as
mere
battery packs for the machine world. What if we were stored in
gloop-filled
incubators with long tubes down our heads? What if. that was the real
world
(whoa! as Keanu neatly puts it).Such an inventive masterpiece would have to come from the Australian's
Wachowski Brothers (Andy and Larry), who co-wrote the screenplay for
'Assassins' in '95 and are responsible for nearly everything on 'The
Matrix'. Not often does everything fit in, with an excellent cast and
crew.
Keanu Reeves' acting skills goes from wooden to quite flexible! Laurence
Fishburne certainly proves he's still got it, and Carrie-Anne Moss plays a
vital, convincing role as a leather-wearing cyber-space
assistant.Thomas 'Neo' Anderson (Keanu Reeves), exec by day, hacker by night, gets
contacted by a mysterious Morpheous (Laurence Fishburne) who wants to
meet.One red tablet later, and he is in a dark, nuclear-filled sky planet,
filled
with E.M.P. scared creatures and unbelievable special effects.That's when the fascinating Chinese art of 'flo-mo' (when the camera
freezes
and spins around) kicks in. But that's not all they have to worry about.
Agent Smith (fellow oz, Hugo Weaver) and other agents have the same
ability
as Neo and the gang and are very hostile.Add a million special effects, each superb and original in it's own way,
excellent acting from the whole cast (especially Reeves and Fishburne),
and
definite room for a sequel or even a prequel.


******
18 June 1999
9

I went to see this movie twice, and maybe I'll go another
time.
It's a totally cool idea of this world being a fake, virtual world that is
fed into the minds of us, humans, to let us think everything is OK, which
is
not the case. We've let things get out of control when we invented AI and
now "the robots" use our bodies for their energy supply. Neo (Keanu
Reeves)
is pulled out of The Matrix to the real world (or what's left of it) to
save
mankind. I especially totally liked the 'agents'. The way they behave,
act,
move, speak is so very credible, machine-like. They look like men in black
but they're cooler in some sort of way.
They never react wildly, but speak distinctly. Bad guys of this millennium
if you're askin' me!
The fighting scenes are also very mind-blowing. The slowmotion/fast blurry
effects are like you're watching them in trance (definitely go see this
movie in a big-screen cinema!!!).
The bullet dodging and flying around is very believable.
also check out the soundtrack! it really rocks!!!

******
18 June 1999
10

A visually stunning romp around a virtual reality 1999 juxtaposed into a
post-apocalyptic 23C controlled by artificial intelligence and their
'agents' and machines.Not an original story and one that is traditionally hard to maintain a
sufficient suspension of disbelief but in The Matrix it is superbly done
by
letting you hover on the edge of surrealism before smacking you in the
eyes
with superb special effects.One of the most appealing things to me was the virtual
wardrobes!

******
18 June 1999
9

This is a movie that does contain some religious allegory, but it is not
overt, and I don't feel that it intrudes on my own beliefs.  The basic
idea
of humans forced into an inhuman existence by their own creations is not a
new one. (remember Terminator?)  Matrix just puts a more creative slant on
the idea.  What makes this movie work for me is the basic idea that human
beings can still triumph against inhuman/machine creations despite
overwhelming odds and a deceptive reality.  The main character is young,
handsome, and intelligent. This introduces an element of romance into the
story, and that makes it even more exciting. I like the fact that he is
willing to be a part of a team, even though he obviously is "The One" .
Also, the comic book aspect of the movie enables you to suspend reality
and
emerse yourself in the story.  Lastly, I like the technical slant.  The
idea
of someone being able to manipulate a program with their mind is
irresistible!

******
18 June 1999
10

Although you can't be completely objective the day after you've
experienced
something
I'd have to say that this has to be one the best movies I have ever seen!
It
has the music (LOUD!), it has the actors (COOL!), it has the effects
(UNBELIEVABLE!) but most of all it has that wonderful "None Of This Is
True"
angle.If you've ever found yourself at the end of a good party talking to
someone
and discussing the possibility that the world is designed just to fool you
and none if this is really happening, you will know what I mean. It
usually
leads to the question: "If the world is created specially for ME, will YOU
disappear once you walk out of site?"A friend and I where already p****d that they stole "our" idea to make
"The
Truman Show" but now The Wachowski Brothers gave us the change to watch
our
paranoia in a +2 hour during rollercoaster ride and I was blown away!
Forget
Star Wars and go see this movie!

******
17 June 1999
9

This movie is the biggest step forward in Hollywood action movies in
recent
memory.  The fight scenes were the best I've ever seen in an American
movie.
Hopefully the bar has been raised enough that other film makers will be
held to this new standard.The movie also had good special effects and an interesting premise.  The
acting wasn't great, but why should we even pretend to be disappointed?
We
all know Keanu isn't great.  Give him credit for taking such a physically
demanding part.

******
17 June 1999
10

Having read many positive reviews of "The Matrix", all of them intelligent
and succinctly written, I feel that I am finally able to put my own feeble
thoughts into words.First off I should say that I absolutely LOVED this movie!  I've seen "The
Matrix" four times and still can't get enough of it.  Going in the first
time with little expectations of a plot, I was pleasantly surprised to
find
a compelling and thought-provoking story.  Initially, I chalked up my
enjoyment to the fact that I got a little more than I'd expected, and had
been temporarily overwhelmed.  Upon second viewing, however, I was struck
by
it even more.  It seemed so plausible because everything 'fit' so well.
The
story, the mood, the actors, the dialogue.  It just grabbed me as a whole.
Made me want to be there.  To believe it.  To experience it for myself.
And
I realized, any movie I've ever really loved, I've never been able to say
why in any coherent fashion.  "The Matrix" left me speechless.  It just
blew
me away.One specific thing I'd like to comment on, which only occurred to me after
viewing number four, seems strange even to myself.  The main characters,
for
all their Kung-Fu training and gun-wielding antics, seemed hauntingly, and
somehow appropriately, gentle.  As if they were compensating for, through
their interactions with each other, the violence they had to endure - and
even perpetrate - elsewhere.  The juxtaposition of human emotion and
technological horror during the final climax was especially poignant.
Although I'd be inclined to give the lion's share of the credit for this
to
the actors, the Wachowski Brothers provided them with stunning material to
work with and through.Just another of the many twists to ponder in "The Matrix".  So go see it a
few times.  It's well worth the $8.75 several times over.


******
16 June 1999
8

Great depth in characters, EXCEPT for Neo who is most un-inspiring...the
character doesn't inspire sympathy, understanding, excitement or anything
(positive or negative) he's just there. He is the weakest part of the film
uplifted to the rank of 'Chosen One' - the only reason he was 'chosen' was
because it would increase box office takings by having the dead pan Keanu
Reeves playing it. But, and it is a BIG BUT, all the other characters are
brilliant. MORPHEUS is a superb caricature (I could follow that guy),
TRILOGY full of everything human and superhuman (I could fall in love with
this one), AGENT SMITH is spine shuddering (I'd run away). All brilliantly
acted great dialogue and expertly delivered, I would certainly go out of
my
way to see any of them again - unlike Reeves...snoringly, boringly banal -
they were all totally believable in an unbelievable film. I'd have given
it
10 if it wasn't for Neo, I wish he'd have taken the blue
pill!The story is fine borrowing loads of references from 'Alice in
Wonderland',
Japanese animation, pseudo religious themes and even Batman. The basic
theme
makes the imagination kick in to overdrive for long after the film making
it
great value for money as a simple flick. The story is full of gaps and
missing questions and answers, for instance what IS going on at Zion,
what's
it about, who's in charge and when is the sequel???SFX - uncompromising in their brilliance - great combination with the Kung
Fu - more like poetry than flashy nonsense.Worth seeing, but I reckon the spin offs are more interesting see the web
site though it's very contrived.There are no laughs, it's never that shocking and I didn't come out
feeling
better or worse - I wouldn't miss it if it wasn't there.

******
16 June 1999
8

T2? Total Recall? This was just the beginning. Now a new era hits the
movie-world! THE MATRIX has the best FX-shots I've EVER seen..and I've
seen
lots of movies. Reeves, well...I think SPEED is crap and BMs DRACULA isn't
very cool neither...I liked Johnny Mnemonic but it's trash of course,
BUT this movie is just amazing and Reeves is just PERFECT for it!
(so are Laurence Fishburn and Carrie Ann Moss). The cool thing about the
effects is that you don't see that it's compter animated! Sometimes you
are
not sure if it was a hard stunt or a night in front of the computer, no
joke.
This movies isn't boring for 1 second and I'm bored very
fast.There are some things in the story I didn't get....but I'll go to see it
for
a 2nd time....maybe I'll get more. (For the ones who saw it: Where the
heck
Agent Smith wants to escape to??)
And there is also 1 unlogical thing in it (for the ones who saw it: In the
beginning when they want to arrest Trinity, why the Agents don't go into
the
bodies of the police men?)But anyway: Perfect 10/10 (was long time ago that i had this much fun in a
movie theater)

******
15 June 1999
8

A very enjoyable feast for the eyes, and to a lesser extent, the old grey
matter...Reeves is as strong as he'll ever be in a role, but is supported very well
by everyone else, including Fishburne and Weaving.The effects are stunning, all nicely wrapped up in a good
story.Could have been better, but could have been a lot worse!

******
15 June 1999
7

Matrix was a fun film with lots of cool action.  The premise of the film -
a
variation on Pascal's Methodological Solipsism - was interesting, if one
didn't look at the details too closely.The film's premise that the machines needed to keep human beings around to
generate heat was simply ludicrous.Terminator One also dealt with man vs. machine and did so much more
credibly.Still, despite the shaky premises upon which it was based it was still
worth seeing on the big screen.


******
15 June 1999
8

With special effects to rival Terminator 2 (better but with the same
impact)
and a plot that is intelligent, original and well told, 'The Matrix' could
well be  the best Science Fiction movie of the year.(I haven't seen Star
Wars Episode 1 yet...).The basic story is based on the concept of a world where everyone
unwittingly shares a common 'virtual' reality and the attempts of a band
of
outsiders to disrupt/challenge the existing regime.
The theme is far from new, obviously, going back to Brave New World, 1984
and a host of outsider 'heroes' struggling against a dystopian
future.There are also some interesting sub-texts :-
The ritualistic rite of passage to illumination,
the nature of prophecy and perhaps the most searching question
"Is it better to live 'free' and in squalor or to experience a better
seeming fantasy life ?"Unlike many effects driven science fiction movies, the acting, plot and
dialogue are all top notch and I heartily recommend
going to see this film.


******
15 June 1999
10

If I had to summarize _The Matrix_ in a single word, it would have to be
"Cool".  It's slicker than a greased spanner, smoother than ice.  In their
black leather and PVC gear Keanu Reeves et al. walk around like they own
the
copyright on cool.Even if it didn't have a decent plot, it would be worth seeing just for
the
sheer visual fun of it, but the plot itself is pretty good, too.  The
whole
"power source" theory is nuts and doesn't make much sense, but apart from
that it builds from confusion through a series of setbacks into a
near-perfect climax that leaves you gagging for more.The Wachowski brothers lay on the allegory and "intelligence" perhaps a
little too thickly (the Alice in Wonderland theme is pushed a tad too hard
for my taste), but they have put enough effort into creating a believable
and genuinely science-fictional (rather than "sci-fi") world, that the
film
works on the mind as well as on the viscera.All in all, it's a cracker.  I saw it in a cinema with just old-fashioned
stereo sound, and with the bottom half of the picture somewhat blurred,
but
it still blew me away.  It's the first film in years that I absolutely
*have* to go back in and see again.  And then buy the video....


******
15 June 1999
9

I always thought that science fiction movies were great and
Matrix proved me right . the whole movie you're thinking
what is real and what is not ,and it makes your mind work the extra mile
for
you.go see this one you won't regret it .
this movie has great special effects!
Mr.Anderson(Keanu Reeves) plays a guy with two lives ,one as a programmer
in
a software company and another as a hacker named Neo.
let's just say his life gets a little complicated when
a guy named Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) gets in touch with him with an
idea ,to reveal to Neo what is the Matrix. 

******
15 June 1999
10

This is what a movie is meant to be, intelligent, driven, action-packed,
but
not cheesy and over done.  Perfect combination of suspended disbelief and
realistic philosophy.  Just when your brain is about to explode from trying
to completely grasp the concept, a helicopter crashes into a building and
there is fire and death and chaos.  This movie is a "10" in everything from
Screenplay to Special Effects to Kung Fu-ism.  A definite box-office must
see.

******
14 June 1999
9

A superb movie. I don't think it's going to be the new Star Wars, for its
impact on the sci-fi scene, but for sure we have the new "Blade Runner".A truly cyberpunk flick, maybe the only one worth of note, along with
Salvatores' "Nirvana", and easily the best.
A contamination of western visions and Jon Woo filming techniques, it will
mark the road for future productions.

******
14 June 1999
10

This movie is out of this world brilliant. Here I am eagerly awaiting the
arrival of The Phantom Menace and along comes The Matrix to totally steal
its thunder. If The Phantom Menace is better than this it will be a good
year.Just try to draw a breath during the shootout in the lobby of the
government
building - it can't be done.

******
14 June 1999
8

Go to the cinema now and see this film. Don't wait for video, it won't be
as
good on the small screen. Any film where you suddenly realise you've got
all
your muscles tensed, just in case, is good in my book. The effects were
marvellous, the direction superb, the camera work amazing, the script was
in
the most part very good and the acting was excellent. Even the notoriously
wooden Keanu did well. I seriously thought about buying a ticket for the
next show after I came out of the one I saw. Remember, there is no
spoon.

******
14 June 1999
8

I gave this film 9 out of ten only because of a very cheesy end scene.
Other
than that...great fun and the best special effects/fight scene
choreography
I've seen.  Covers up a few flaws in the plot etc.  Check it
out.

******
14 June 1999
10

After seeing the Matrix twice I finally got why so many people walked out
of
the
theatre still not knowing what the Matrix is, or just not liking it: These
people
are our parents (or the like). It's not their fault. Any generation before
us
couldn't have conceived this film.Everything in it: The visual style, the pace, the computer special
effects,
the
Hong Kong inspired action sequences, the anime inspired characters, the
stylish
ultra violence, and the cyber storyline, was all pointing that many
cultural
and
technological issues needed to be ripe enough for people to get the movie.
The
Matrix was tailor made for-and-by a videogame, internet, cellular, cool
gadget
generation which I'm proud to be part of.After seeing the latest installment of the Star Wars saga I decided that
I've out
grown it. Thank god there's the Matrix. Now I'm ready to move on. Bring on
more cool Sci-Fi!                    

******
14 June 1999
10

Have you seen it yet? No, then get of your rear an go and see
it! One of the greatest films around! Superb! A film that combines the
world of sci-fi with the world of martial arts in
the last great film of the Millennium! Thoroughly enjoyed the film, I just
loved the fight sequences. See it to believe it!

******
14 June 1999
7

The Matrix is a good movie, no doubt. A lot of action, good camerawork,
great storyline. But what annoyed me was that the action scenes were made
almost the same as John Who (Face/Off) would have done it. More than half
of
the storyline comes directly from 'The Terminator (2)'.  Especially the
part where Keanu kicks the sunglasses of an agent's
head. Maybe the Wachowski brothers
also liked 'Highlander'.                 

******
14 June 1999
9

Over here in little old England, something of a storm is brewing. The
streets have seemed strangely deserted of late, and people have a eerie
expectancy about them. No, it's not 'That Film' (Star Wars Episode I
doesn't
come out over here until July 1999) - in fact, most people are watching
the
Matrix, which could be the biggest surprise smash of the year. Already
proven its worth in the US box office, it had got myself and a few friends
whipped up into something of a sci-fi frenzy with trailers spouting
unprecedented camerawork and visual effects. We managed to get ourselves
into a preview showing a day before the opening weekend. It cost a little
more, but, oh boy. Was it worth it.The Matrix stars Keanu Reeves as Neo, a small-time software programmer by
day, and a solitary computer-cracking software pirate by night. Apart from
the occasional nightmare, nothing troubles Neo until a strange encounter
with a woman (Trinity), and a nasty run-in with FBI-style agents force him
to start asking questions - are his dreams real? Who is Morpheus? And just
what is the Matrix? Confused yet? More I cannot say (you find out about 30
minutes in), except this: if this film is a rollacoaster, this far is the
gentle climb up the first ramp to the top. Get ready for a whirlwind
ride.Many people will go to see this film because of the gun-toting,
spine-tingling effects shots. The camerawork is ground-breaking and
un-surpassed. The 'Flo-mo' technology, used for clever spinning
slow-motion
shots, is surely set to be a regular feature on our movie screens due to
the
huge fat atmosphere it gives to stunts and explosion scenes. Others will
love the superb kung-fu action scenes, practiced for months by the cast
with
a technique known as 'wire-fighting'. These scenes (I am assured by my
Tae-Kwon-Do toting friend) are all genuinely performed and accurate to the
art. Others will love the potent plot which, while admittedly recycled
from
hard-core sci-fi, is given a firm twist of freshness and is guaranteed to
turn your head inside out at least twice during the film.For myself, I simply loved The Matrix because, well, it was so darn cool.
From the the fantastic camera work and the impeccable fashion sense to the
fresh, exciting plot, it looks set to be at least as popular over in the
UK
as it proved to be in the US. The faults were few and far between - an
awkward romance and some slightly wooden "Keanu moments" being the only
ones
I can remember.But the minor niggles don't begin to mar the quality of the film. I came
out of the theatre feeling at least a half foot taller for knowing
something
just about no-one else did - what the Matrix actually was. But, in the
words
of Morpheus: "Unfortunately, no-one can be told what the Matrix actually
is.
You have to see it for yourself."

******
14 June 1999
7

The Matrix is a 'good' action / sci-fi thriller though it is let down by
the
psuedo-philosophical-self-important script with laughable self agrandising
and dignifying comments - 'nobody can know the path you have to ...' &
'you
are the one'. I had the feeling a boy had read some philosophy primer and
decided to make some actors reel off this funny script. It was so silly
after a while and spoiled an excellent action movie - stick to action
talk!


******
13 June 1999
10

Excellent Sci-fi for the thinking man (or woman). A good story with decent
characterisation, Keanu Reeves best role for some time. Good supporting
cast
in particular the Men in Black lookalikes.Very atmospheric with good use of dark and light, reminded me of the pilot
of Max Headroom.The effects need to be seen to be believed, but they do not steal the show
like so many other films. The story can be a bit difficult to follow but
perseverance is rewarded in the end.At 130+ mins it is a long film, be sure to visit a comfortable venue, but a
good pace on the action and story telling holds the viewer from start to
finish.10 out of 10 for an original slant on the "computers take over the world"
theme.Will there be a sequel.......... I hope so.

******
13 June 1999
9

The Matrix is truly a sci-fi great. For what it proposes to do for the
public, it is one of the best films made in quite a long
time.The special effects are great, the acting is quite strong, specially from
Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus, and the plot is entertaining.The ending is the only thing that lets the film down, denying it a rating
of
10/10.

******
13 June 1999
10

I love this movie, I think this is the best movie I've ever seen.
Characters including villains are super, prop are realistic (except the
enemy ship), SFX is great, and the clothes especially sunglasses!
During my short US trip I seen this 3 times in movie theater.  I'm sure
I'll
see several more times if it comes to Japan.If you are familiar with Japanese culture, including manga/anime
(Japanimation), you'll be able to enjoy much better than a guy next to
you.
I recommend you to see Ghost in the shell and read Gun Smith Cats
beforehand.  I believe the director loves Japanimation and Kung-fu
movies.


******
13 June 1999
10

An excellent film.  Great acting, special effects and fight scenes combined
to make one of the most original Hollywood films for quite some time.  In
my
opinion the plot is intricate but not overly so.  You've got to concentrate
in this film or it'll go over your head as i think it did some critics.


******
13 June 1999
10

Very briefly; this film has everything.  You must see it on the big screen
to take in the special effects and amazing sound tracking.  Excellent
ideas
and edge of your pants suspense; wait until you see the scene when Trinity
and Neo fire their way into the building to rescue Morpheus; go and see it
now.

******
13 June 1999
9

Astounding, faultless, incredible cyber-action. Rescued from the low of
Johnny Mnemonic to play the role of his career, "Canoe" gives a slick
performance as Thomas 'Neo' Anderson.If you're reading this, you know the plot by now. All that remains is for
me
to add my praise to that I've already read here.Quite simply the best movie of this genre I've ever seen.

******
13 June 1999
9

For whoever put together the trailer - good job. It showed enough to
intrigue while revealing little.To everyone involved in the creation of this film - thank you. Thank you
for
not aiming for the "lowest common denominator" audience. I have rarely been
this impressed with the art of movie-making.To Mr. Reeves, kudos for a strong performance. NEO's quiet depression (near
suicidal, I thought) in the early scenes are affective without being
obvious. The subtle nuances are fascinating - during NEO's boss' lecture
(one can see suspicion of his surroundings even then) and also when being
interrogated by the AGENTS. Particularly satisfying is the reaction to
being
exposed to a horrific reality, and the wondrous serenity at the moment when
NEO finally, truly, believes. As for the physical training, it paid off;
the
fight sequences look fabulous.I wanted entertainment - I got it in a big way.

******
13 June 1999
10

Th Matrix was without a doubt the most well written science fiction
film in the past 5 years or so. I was blown away by how they created such
a
hard to believe world but yet managed to make you believe it. The whole
theme
of the film (at least this is what I think) was a reflection of our own
lives and how we live in a world that's made up of so many distractions we
never really realize whats going on around us. So many people shut their
eyes to many events that happen in the real world and get lost in their
own
private worlds. Well to describe the theme this movie tries to pass on to
the viewers. I can do this in three words. FREE YOUR MIND. Like I said
thats
just what I think. Maybe you do too. 

******
12 June 1999
10

The Matrix is a science fiction movie that will mainly be enjoyed by fans
of
the genre. But if you like serious SF then you'll love The Matrix. The
film
has two main strands - there's the main storyline which is quite intricate
and complex and then there's the action movie-within-a-movie. The plot is
intelligent and mostly plausible but quite dense so you have to listen
carefully. The action sequences are surprisingly good thanks to superb
special effects. Don't be put off by the Kung-Fu comments. Yes, it does
have
this type of fighting but it's sensible in its context and the effects are
*outstanding*. So an intelligent, thought-provoking, thrilling movie - but
don't expect your granma' to like it - or your girlfriend unless she's
into
sci-fi or kung-fu. But for those who are then this is a top movie. I gave
it
8/10.

******
12 June 1999
10

The Matrix is everything Blade could have been, and then
some.
It's raw, it's intelligent, it's awesome. This movie isn't just another
'what-is-the-earth-like-100-years-from-no'-type of film.
It gives you the same mindgames as Total Recall, the same
cutting edge special effects as T2 had when it was released,
and
yet it's simple. Simple because you'll probably enjoy it
in whatever mood you're in.
Don't take my word for it, go see it!

******
12 June 1999
10

It is not that I think anyone will like this film best, but for me it is
the
most amazing film since Star Wars. Awesome is the best word for it. Great
special fx, stunning characters, really cool atmosphere. I am thankful for
this film, because I never ever thought since my childhood, that a film
will
be this great for me. Thx Wachowskis

******
11 June 1999
10

See this movie and wonder if it's real.  Is our world real or a dream?
Look
at the sky and wonder, "Is that blue?  Or is what I consider to be blue
seen
by someone else as red?  How would I know if they refer to my red as
blue?".
See the movie and they're the sorts of things you begin to wonder.  You
may
not know what existentialism is, but you'll be thinking
existentially.Religious reality?  See "The Matrix" and draw the parallels between Neo
and
the Buddha, or Neo and Jesus Christ.  "You are my saviour", says one
character in the film.Andy and Larry Wachowski will make you think with this intriguing science
"fiction" movie and mix it up perfectly with some of the most
mind-shattering action sequences computer animation will as yet allow.
The
slowest slow-motion; the most fascinating movie.

******
11 June 1999
10

What an excellent film - now where do I begin? First of all, the direction
and camera work was extremely well done - the changes from slo-mo and back
work very well. The story is good, entertaining, and insightful. But, I
hear
you say, what about Keanu Reeves? The man can't act! Well, I wasn't even
thinking about Johnny Mnemonic, but it doesn't matter because he helps the
film superbly. The action sequences are great, but the fight scenes are
just
mindblowing. A great film, go see it now.

******
10 June 1999
10

This movie is definitely the red pill, all the others are blue.  It has
great special effects, and actually has a great plot!  For people out
there
who don't think Keanu is a good actor. . . .guess again!  He was perfect
for
the role as well as the rest!  For those of you giving The Matrix a rating
that is below a 7. . . .you guys should see it again.  How could you give
it
a one?  Just because it has Keanu in it?  So?  He was perfect for this!
And
for those of you who think it is really annoying that the agents always
e-nun-ci-ate the words, they have to!  They're machines, artificial
intelligence for god sakes!  They're not human.  Now, for those of you who
thinks they wear very cheesy suits, you are wrong!  They are AGENTS!
Whoever does not like this movie is not a hardcore Sci-fi fanatic!  So get
the hell out of here and watch it again!  

******
9 June 1999
10

When I learned about "The Matrix" and first saw the trailer I was very
suspicious and didn't know what to expect of the movie.
I mean, I love Keanu Reeves but he screwed up more than one movie
(including
his other Cyberpunk-Thriller "Johnny Mnemonic"). I also saw "Assassins"
and
"Bound" by the Wachowski Brothers ("Bound" is a strange movie - while
watching it I changed my mind few times - Do I like it or not?). In the
end
I wasn't sure if they could do this. But now I know...
"The Matrix" is definitely the best Cyberpunk-Movie so far and for me one
of
the best Sci-Fi & Overall movies of all time.
For a reallive-movie it also comes closest to an japanese Manga comic as
possible. I really loves the Bullet-Time-Scenes.
So now I know what the Matrix is - but how can one destroy
it?
Let's hope for a sequel...

******
9 June 1999
10

In Hollywood, you get used to a certain way of things - the serious,
critic-dependent movies are the ones that will make you think about key
issues of our lives, while the shoot-em-up action flicks are supposedly
there only for our entertainment.  This flick is the rarest of all birds -
a
movie that combines revolutionary special effects and the most incredible
action sequences ever shot on film, with a strong plot about humanity's
dependence on machines becoming reversed, the nature of reality, and the
need for rebellion.The Matrix's strength above all is its refusal to talk down to its
audience - it assumes you know a little about technology and/or philosophy
before you walk in the door.  It is the thinking man's action movie - one
that pulls you into a world remarkably like our own, then peels it back,
layer after layer, showing you the world of the Matrix.The special effects are fantastic, both in their execution and their
restraint - they are used only to undercut the intensity of one scene, or
to
showcase the otherworldly nature of the three main stars.Speaking of which, the stars of the show do their jobs exceedingly well.
Laurence Fishburne plays the role of Morpheus with a type of detached
calm,
as one would expect from someone whom knows that what they see isn't real.
Carrie-Anne Moss is the heart of the movie as Trinity, Morpheus's
right-hand
woman and a martial arts powerhouse to boot.  Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith
does a perfect job as the villain - you hate him completly by the end of
the
movie, but love him for being so evil.  And questions about Keanu Reeve's
worth as any kind of star are put to rest - he seems born to play the role
of
Neo, a man whom loses everything he ever had, and must relearn everything
he's ever known.The Matrix is a movie I wouldn't hesitate to recommend to anyone.  It's
a
movie anyone can grasp, even if they only appreciate the action sequences,
which don't seem shot on film so much as they seem painted (possibly due
to
the storyboards, which were drafted by comic book professionals - a trend
I
hope will continue.)  And for those who look deeper, there's a wealth of
subtle shading to the story, which fleshes it out - and rewards repeat
viewing by hiding many subtle details that you'd miss on the first
go-around.  It's the type of movie that restores your faith in movies -
that
yes, you can combine great action with a great story, and that yes, you
don't need to have name directors or actors to make it all
fly.

******
7 June 1999
9

Two Chosen Ones in one week! We saw The Matrix on Thursday and Star Wars I
on Sunday. The Matrix was far the better film and the special effects,
relying on people (if computer-enhanced) were much more "real." The ideas
were maybe not very original, but the overall effect really pulled you
into
the action. Sure couldn't same the same for Lucas' attempt!

******
7 June 1999
9

A fantastic movie, with not only great effects but a really intense story.
The kind of movie that leaves you asking more questions going out of the
theatre than going in. Brilliant nonetheless - Go See it!

******
7 June 1999
10

This is one good movie! From the beginning the visuals and effects amaze
you, and the story and choreography makes it all even better! When the
action starts, you just can't move your eyes away from the
screen!

******
6 June 1999
10

It could be a bit confusing sometimes, but once you figure it out, it's
pure
fun. Even if you don't understand the plot, it's still fun! A plot, which
by
the way, is wonderfully created. What a great story that is! The movie is
full of special efects and action, there's no way you can go wrong on this
one! It has a good cast and the directors... no comments! It's also
worthwhile checking out "The Bond" thriller from the two brothers
directors.


******
6 June 1999
9

"The Matrix" is just great. The story makes you feel like you are a part
of
the film, you feel what Neo feels. Besides, image is beautiful, the slow
motion is impressive and the special effects are wonderfully made.
However,
the "real" world, outside the matrix is not very convincing. And the end
of
the film is too Hollywood, it is made for the viewer to go out happy
without
being interesting to the story: it could be not so pretty and fake in
order
to end a great story with a great end.
But, in conclusion, you have to see this movie. 

******
4 June 1999
10

What a thrill ride!Like a Playstation game on amphetamine, a science-fiction fashion shoot,
and
a 101 Philosophy lesson at MIT.Keanu is Neo - the hacker.  He's a
much more believable hero - average, not clever, not sure of himself, but
determined and honest.Strong and appropriately tight-lipped supporting cast, but what really
shines are the effects.  Originally, throbbing and left-field - this stuff
could only have come out of the minds of the Southern Hemisphere.
Hollywood
heads are bone-dry.Stupid dialogue, but who needs it - this is the real world, where people
ain't clever but they care.  Cool concept portrayed with fun, flair and
style.Stomping!

******
3 June 1999
8
I say--without hyperbole--that "The Matrix" is the best action/sci-fi film
this year so far. Roger Ebert can kiss my proverbial a@#$! for not making
his review strong enough, because I was not convinced at the time. Of
course, the film has its flaws, which I will point out later, but
overriding
that is the film's complete ambush to the senses. I knew, for example,
that
once Trinity flew into the window of that building from the roof of
another
with such dazzling SFX accuracy, that I was going to enjoy the film with
or
without lousy acting.Although critically, the Wachowski brothers' previous film "Bound" is
wholly
of more merit, "Matrix" delivers for its genre. You simply check your
brain
at the door, let the deluge begin, and pick it back up when the lights go
up. Combining, to various degrees, good acting (many exceptions), intense
action, and a terrific sci-fi/fantasy story, "The Matrix" has secured a
place for itself among some of the more truly satisfying action/sci-fi
films, such as Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Blade Runner, Dark City, Total
Recall, GATTACA, Back to the Future, Star Wars Trilogy, X-files: Fight the
Future, Aliens, Men in Black, Eve of Destruction, The Puppet Masters, Star
Trek II: The Wrath of Kahn and so on. Moreover, although the special
effects
are key, there must be balance. One need only remember failures such as
Waterworld, Star Trek V: The Final Frontier, The Postman, Virus, Starship
Troopers (Sorry, I read the book), Lost in Space, Deep Rising, Johnny
Mnemonic, Vitruosity and so on to know this.The brilliant special effects and action sequences carry the film, but to
its detriment are cartoon characters, the trite (and almost comical)
aphorisms with Biblical overtones from Morpheus, the weak lead Keanu, a
truly promising story line that is never really fulfilled or elaborated
upon, i.e., there is no third act, and the film's clear avoidance of the
serious question that Cypher, Joe Pantaliano's character, raises. Aside
from
that, the effects and other elements work well to balance out these
flaws.The plot, although not completely original--see Dark City--is quite
surreal,
dark, pulpy, and most comic book-like. There are some literate allusions
to
Alice in Wonderland such as follow the white rabbit and through the
looking
glass, but also to the Bible. Neo, for instance, is a weak Christ-like
character whose name is an anagram for "One." Morpheus rearranges into
"Push
Rome" and Agent Smith into "I'm the Angst." And, characters with names
such
as Trinity and Apoc are obvious enough. In addition, the two worlds in the
film make a striking contrast. The wholly bleached, grim, and gothic city
seems almost idyllic when compared with the graphic and hellish "real
world." Nonetheless, the Gestapo agents of the Matrix practically steal
the
show. Hugo Weaving's ominous portrayal of Agent Smith is outright superb
character acting. Last, but not least, Keanu's marital arts are
unintentionally hilarious. I know you laughed, come on
now.Yet, even after you combine this hodgepodge of elements, "The Matrix" will
still leave you thoroughly entertained--as much as any rollercoaster ride,
but for a lot less money.

******
3 June 1999
10

The first time I saw The Matrix, on opening night, I entered the theater
with no expectations.  I had seen its commercial during the Superbowl, and
all I knew was that it starred Keanu Reeves and some really cool-looking
effects.  Even though the people behind me were having a loud, in-depth
conversation, it didn't bother me.  I thought, "I came here to watch some
cool effects, not listen to the story."  I was not disappointed.  I was so
dazzled by the look of the movie, that I didn't even notice that it
actually
had a story.  I came home and told my friends, "Sure, it has no plot, but
it's definitely worth seeing."  I was unenlightened.Over the next few days, my husband kept bringing up ideas that were
explored
in the movie, biblical, literary, and cinematic references, etc, and I
realized that I needed to see it again.  The second time, I experienced
it,
rather than just watched it.  I was enthralled.  Now I feel compelled to
see
it again about once a week, saying, "I've got to see it one more time
before
it leaves the theaters for good!"  I'm up to 4 viewings now, seeing
something new every time.

******
3 June 1999
10

The Matrix was the best movie ever. It had an amazing plot that still
awes me, it had amazing special effects and great fighting scenes, it's
only
problem was Keanu Reeves. If you haven't seen this movie, see it even
though Keanu Reeves is in it. It's still the best movie ever. You know
what
they should have done? They should have gotten Charlie Sheen to star in
it.
That woulda been aweseome.

******
2 June 1999
10

This movie is impossible to describe. I never ever ever thought I'd ever
be
impressed by Keanu Reeves, but he was very good, and the special effects
have to be seen to be believed. This movie may well supplant Austin Powers
as my all-time favorite.

******
1 June 1999
10

Yes, the Matrix wasn't completely original. There were plot elements
that were similar to Dark City, Terminator, Total Recall, The Truman Show,
and Greek Philosophy. However: It blended aspects form all of these movies
into a single story that grabs the viewer both intellectually and
visually.
First, the plot was neither "non-existent" as some claim, or
"overly-complex" as others do. It was fairly straight forward, but posed
many questions. They were, for the most part, answered in the film, but
*only* in the context of the film. It is not a film that tells you, it's a
film that asks you.
Second, It has become far too "cool" to be uncool. Pretentious twits
who harp on movies for using special high-tech special effects, having
action sequences, or giving the main characters sunglasses don't seem to
realize that these things all serve the same purpose as the half-baked
love
story inserted into "Titanic." They are there to give the audience an
emotional response as well as an intellectual one. They inspire excitement
and awe... Which is at *least* as valuable as any masochistic desire to
cry
at a sad film. Emotional response, in whatever form, is valuable, and the
Matrix pulls off these things exceedingly well.
In short, The Matrix is an excellent balance of intellect, action,
style, and awe. If you give the plot half the attention you give the
effects, you won't be disappointed.


******
1 June 1999
9

This movie is the best combination of storyline and special efects I have
seen in a long time.  The only thing that was missing was true character
development.  It was so fast paced, it seemed like the whole movie took
place in a couple of real time days. Time only enough to get a glimpse of
each character. 2 1/2 hours seemed like 45 minute rollercoster ride. I am
looking foward to the sequels.

******
31 May 1999
8

Matrix is not the greatest film ever made , but is visual spectacular , go
along and just sit and don't go and  try to find meaning in this , just
sit
there and enjoy it ..Oh and how Wonderful Sydney, Australia looked on the
big screen as a back drop , it makes a refreshing change From U.S.A , lets
hope we see more of Sydney in future films, as I heard that city is where
the new Mission Impossible is filmed and the next two Star Wars Episodes
are
being made.

******
31 May 1999
9

". . . the unconscious, the matrix of dreams, has an independent
function."
-- C.G. Jung.
We could comfortably answer the question, "What is the Matrix?" by saying,
"The Matrix is the unconscious."  Several times in his book, Dreams, Carl
Jung refers to the unconscious as the matrix or the birthplace of dreams.
The movie "The Matrix" is actually about Jung's idea of the collective
unconscious, and there are many references to dreams in the movie which
correlate directly with Jung's written material.Sigmund Freud said that the unconscious is a storehouse filled with
repressed desires and fears, and that our unconscious dictates our
behavior
in ways of which we are unaware. However, Jung believed that, not only do
we
each have a personal unconscious, but we share in a collective
unconscious,
which is an ocean of cross-cultural archetypes (snakes, mother, Judas).
He
states that when we dream, our unconscious uses symbols both from everyday
life and the archetypes to give us information about ourselves and our
situations.  According to Jung, we must learn this symbolic language of
dreams in order to decipher their meanings.When Morpheus offers Neo a choice between two pills, he holds one in each
hand. The left side has, for thousands of years, symbolized evil while the
right represented good.  Jung believed something different, he says that
".leftward movement is equivalent to a movement in the direction of the
unconscious, whereas a movement to the right is 'correct' and aims at
consciousness."  He declares that the collective unconscious "lies at a
deeper level and is further removed from the conscious than the personal
unconscious."It is not a coincidence that Morpheus holds the blue pill in his left hand
and the red pill in his right hand. He tells Neo, "You take the blue pill
and the story ends. You wake in your bed and you believe whatever you want
to believe."  What he is stating is, "Take the left path and you will
remain
ignorant of the unconscious and its contents." Then he explains that if
Neo
takes the red pill, he will stay in wonderland and be shown how "deep the
rabbit hole goes." He actually means that if Neo follows the "right" path,
he will become aware of his own personal unconscious as well as the deeper
collective (rabbit hole).

******
30 May 1999
10

People who are waiting in line for Star Wars are missing out on one of the
best movies of the year.  The Matrix is a must see!  In my opinion, I
think
The Matrix and Star Wars Episode 1: The Phantom Menace are very similar.
Anakin Skywalker has the force unusually strong with him (Star Wars) and
Neo
is supposedly "the one." (The Matrix)  There's a lot of good force and bad
force in both these movies.  But, there is one thing that's different.
The
Matrix treats the audience as an intelligent group of people, having many
hidden facts in it for people to figure out themselves (i.e. names, etc.),
but The Phantom Menace explains "everything" as it goes along.  It treats
the audience as a group of brainless children.  Don't get me wrong here, I
loved both these movies, but if I had to choose the best out of the two,
it
would definitely be The Matrix.  Sorry Star Wars fans, but it's my choice!
NOT only that, but The Matrix is a kick-ass, action, thriller
rollercoaster
while The Phantom Menace is a mild, kind of thrilling,
joy-ride.

******
30 May 1999
10

I see no use in describing the story of "The Matrix", so let's jump
straight to the point.
I didn't expect "The Matrix" to be that good. I just walked in to find
a very thrilling movie, full of action and amazing visual effects.The actors are doing pretty well too, and Hugo Weaving is the ultimate
perfect villain... I haven't seen such evil character since Darth Vader
and,
more recently, The Fratelli Family ("The Goonies").
There are also good and sharp quotations from The Bible, showing Neo as
the savior and Morfeus as John Baptiste, the annunciator. It's also a
point
showed in "Bram Stoker's Dracula", where Renfield shouts the arrival of
his
master, the AntiChrist.
So, if I were you, I would follow the White Rabbit to the closest movie
room and watch "The Matrix". You won't be disappointed.


******
29 May 1999
10

I must admit I went to this movie expecting a lot of special effects with
a
story written by a two year old. How I was shocked. This one actually had
a
story to follow. Not the depth of some films, but very impressive for this
kind of genre.Keanu Reeves (Bill and Ted) is very impressive in this film, but isn't he
always? As for Lawrence Fishburne, well, a superb effort, making his
character the best in the film. Australian Carrie-Anne Moss plays the part
of the plastic wearing (remind you of catwoman???) martial arts babe with
superb acting.What is the Matrix? Well I better not spoil it. But it does remind me of
Lucas' 'the force!'This is a very impressive film, definitely tailor made for the big
screen.Unfortunately the ending is a let down, there seemed to be something
missing
in it. Maybe it finishes a little too abruptly.Some never to be forgotten scenes and some good humor. And no action
mainstream flick is incomplete with the romance. We wait a while, but it
does add something to the film.Around and 7 or 8 out of ten for the Matrix - two marks off for the
ending,
one mark off for the fact that generally i don't like your mainstream
action
'the hero seems to be bullet proof and the bad guys get unlucky kinda
stallone or scharzenneger films!
If I'm nice I might give it an extra mark for the fact that it had a
story!

******
29 May 1999
10

The Matrix, It's a reality but not real.This is one of my favorites
because
it got everything,Cool effects,Great actors .If you hadn't seen it yet, go
to
the nearest theater and it will be worth it.(I think I want to go in the
Matrix just to know what it feels like being someone who has the power to
do
everything at will)

******
29 May 1999
10

This film is just wonderful! I don't like sci-fi very much, but as Keanu
was
in this one, I HAD to see it...and I loved it! The actors, Keanu and
Carrie-Anne were just wonderful, the movie keeps your attention all the
time, and you are almost unable to breathe the whole movie. If you want
adrenaline, go on and see it because it's really worth!

******
28 May 1999
10

This movie was a total surprise for me and my friends.  Being comic book
fans we noticed immediately that the plot and action were written in a
mature adaptation of the comic book genre.  We were very pleased with the
overall plot layout and premise as well as the extraordinary visuals and
effects.  One of the best movies i have ever seen.

******
28 May 1999
10

This movie got a ranking of ten despite having Keanu Reeves as the main
character. It accomplished this miraculous feat because good ol' fish-face
has the best line of the movie; "Woah." I must have said it a hundred
times
while watching this movie. And I never meant it as a bad thing. Amazing,
amazing movie. Great villains, cool good guys, Laurence Fishburne in tiny
sunglasses, the wierdest kind of God imaginable and fight scenes that
leave
you so stunned all you can say is "Woah."

******
27 May 1999
10

The Matrix was the type of movie that you 
wanted to get your popcorn and do all you 
needed to before the movie started. I 
loved this because there was the suspense 
and excitement that you would expect in 
this type of movie.
Just imagine if this was a true, and not a
movie. This would be a horrible  but 
the movie does tend to make you think.
This movie comes highly recommended to all
my friend and anybody who is thinking of 
seeing this for the first time. 


******
26 May 1999
8

All the technical aspects of "The Matrix" are excellently done.  The
energy
of this movie absolutely surges through its viewers.  And the concept of
how
machines utilize human beings is intriguing.  But it seems like a third
act
is missing.  I desperately wanted to know what would happen if the heroes
won, instead of having an open ending which seemed so unfair to the
audience.  After carrying the audience through a wonderful ride, "The
Matrix" stops short of delivering a knockout punch.  If you want to see a
movie that is just as well done with an incredible ending and similar
story
line... see Dark City."The Matrix" could have been so much better... a souped-up version of Dark
City... but it is still a visually intoxicating movie with an interesting
plot.  It is worth seeing.  But if you've seen Dark City... you might be
disappointed.

******
25 May 1999
10

This film has everything. Special effect, action, everything and the film
has a thing controlling about the facts of real life.
For me It's the best film of 1999.
Star wars is good, but this is.........WOW beyond.

******
24 May 1999
10

It is hard...I have seen this movie twice already...but is not enough, I
wanna buy it, and belive me, you will wanna buy it too.
What really is the MATRIX? Anybody knows? This are only two questions
but
wait `till you see the movie. You`ll have soooo many questions, than
you`ll
not be able to sleep...what`s more, it ( the thoughts )will make you get
out
your bed, get on top of a building, and jump on the next building...OK, I
know, I am going a little too far, but you watch the movie, YOU WILL
question everything and everybody...
Anyway, Keanu is playing as a hacker, and there are some scenes in the
movie that makes you recall "Johnny Mnemonic"...but, Keanu soon realizes
that everything and everybody that sourrounds him is ...not real!
whoa...it
is not an everyday kinda deal...What`s more, he finds out that he is the
so
called "choosen one" to save the world...Save it from what?...or from
whom?...Well, I am not here to tell you the whole story, but one thing is
for sure: you will love this movie, the story, the fights, the special
effects...just give it a chance!
As far as I am concerned, this movie deserves 10 out of 10...go see it,
go buy it but don`t miss it !!!  

******
24 May 1999
10

I thought that this movie was SUPER!Why? Well, first of all, Keanu Reeves is HOT!!! :) I'm not kidding, he's a
TOTAL babe! Plus, a super actor. Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss
are
great too, and did a brillant job of making their characters interesting
and
appealing.But, aside of that, the most important thing is that there was a PLOT. And
we're not just talking about any old piece of junk, the plot was GOOD.Why do I find this amazing, you ask? Well, in most of the action movies
I've
seen, the plot, if there WAS one, sucked (to put it VERY bluntly).Now, perhaps I'm being a bit demanding here, but I like movies to have
good
plots. That way you can really get INTO the story.The best movies are the ones in which you feel as though you are THERE,
with
the characters, experiencing all that's happening. The Matrix did all
this,
and managed to have TONS of action and mind-numbing graphics too.I was amazed that it was possible to cram all this into one movie. It was
SUPER!So, putting together the good plot, loads of action, super graphics, and
an
AMAZING cast (and I'm taklking about the WHOLE cast here, not just Keanu
:)
I think we've got a winner!

******
22 May 1999
10

Take a very big pot, add in 2 litres of new (I mean really new!!!) idea, a
couple of good actors, excellent camera - cook it  on very very good
storyline, add amazing SFX (they are amazing when You can't tell the
difference between real and not real - and by the way this is actually the
point of the movie /the difference not the SFX...) and when is just about
ready add a spicy alert message and You got a delicious soup I and You've
been waiting so so long...
The "Agent Smith" description of our "human" species is god damn
true!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Eat when is still hot - If You wait a second it's all gone...

******
22 May 1999
10

This is what sci-fi movies of the future should be like. Lots of
eye-candy,
style and deep thinking. It appeals across many levels of movie goers. All
of the acting was great, especially the four main characters. Yes, even
Keanu. I have never seen anyone do an impersonation of Bruce Lee so well,
even down to the tiny mannerisms. Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss
were brilliant and oh so stylish. Big kudos to the costume designers. The
Matrix is well-thought out, perfectly executed and intricately detailed.
See
it more than once to get the full effect. It's my current best movie ever
and I hope it wins an award for special effects, or even just coolness
:)

******
22 May 1999
10

In The Matrix, Keanu Reeves plays a hacker who finds out that the world is
actually a computer simulation and that he is the only one who can free
the
human race. This is the best movie I've ever seen. Excellent sfx, good
fighting scenes, and the plot is completely believable. Agent Smith,
Trinity, and Morpheus are the best characters. Question
Reality!

******
21 May 1999
9

I was about 12 the last time I left a theatre and wanted to go back in and
watch the same movie again, right then and there...until The Matrix.
Non-stop plot progression (character introductions last about 5 seconds)
coupled with some of the best fight sequences I've come across and almost
seamless special effects combine to make this an intense,
thought-provoking
movie. Morpheus' "born into bondage" monologue strikes disturbing bells
even
without the matrix. Creditable performances from all the main characters,
an
internally consistent plot and, unusually, science that didn't make me
want
to throw up in disgust made my suspension of disbelief not just willing
but
unnoticeable. Sets, costumes, lighting, cinematography (I loved the
"freeze
the frame yet rotate the camera around the main subject" technique and
thought it could have been used once or twice more); everything hangs
together beautifully to create an often dark and oppressive atmosphere
which
perfectly complements the story. 

******
21 May 1999
7

i must say, my hopes weren't too high about this movie, and, well... i
totally loved every second of it, until the ending,
which i must say, was _totally_ disappointing, the worst
ending
i've ever seen probably, but don't let this scare you, it's definitely a
movie worth to go see, but don't expect to leave the theater with a smile,
i
didn't.

******
21 May 1999
10

Remember the movie "It Could Happen to You?"  It starred Nick Cage as a
cop
who wins the lottery and splits the winnings with a local waitress.  Well,
I
thought this movie was much more believable overall.  Not a bad feat for a
sci-fi flick.  I've read several negative reviews by other imdb members,
notably one that said the matrix was trying to be a William Gibson novel
movie.  I found pretty much everything this person wrote to be
unsubstantiated gibberish.  I'm not sure what the author would have done
differently had he/she (I don't know any females this bitter) been given
the
script and budget... but I bet it would resemble "Wing Commander."


******
21 May 1999
10

This movie takes the "intelligent action-thriller" genre started by _Face
Off_ to a new level...  For people who enjoy philosophical speculation and
exploration of deep concepts, this movie is sure to satisfy.  Although
some
complain that there are many derivative ideas in the film, you have to
remember that "Mediocre artists borrow.  Great artists steal."  In
stealing
some of the best ideas in philosophy and filmmaking from the past 20+
years
(the visual references are Simpsons-esque in their ubiquity ;-) , the
Wachowski brothers have given concepts that are usually relegated to
incomprehensible "art films" mainstream appeal, and they do it with a
great
sense of style.  Kudos.If you enjoy Sci-Fi or Action movies, _The Matrix_ will not disappoint;
similarly, if you enjoy metaphysical mental explorations (and are quick
enough to appreciate them in a movie context), _The Matrix_ will also push
your buttons.  Basically, anyone with a slow mental clock speed need not
apply - brainiac adrenalin-junkies, this one's for you!Although this movie *has* taken my #1 spot for best movie of all time
(from
_Apocalypse Now_), there are a few downsides:Keanu (or as my Brit friend pronounces it, Canoe - as in a hollowed-out
chunk of wood) utilizes his natural ability to look clueless perfectly
through most of the movie, then doesn't blow it when he has to seem like
he
knows what he's doing.  He's OK, but his romantic chemistry in the film
leaves much to be desired.There are also several supporting characters who are not really given a
chance to develop quite thoroughly, although I think the film strikes a
good
balance due to the limitations of the cinema format (can't be too long -
try
seeing _Dances With Wolves_ more than once!).  In addition, I believe _The
Matrix_ was supposed to be the center part of a trilogy, so perhaps more
exposition will be forthcoming.Lastly, those of us who have thought about some of the ideas explored in
_The Matrix_ may find that the movie doesn't go *far enough* - there are
so
many more great questions that could have been posed, but again, you can't
try and overload a movie, so by and large, all complaints I could have
with
the movie are minor.Bottom line:  WHOA!  Go see it!

******
20 May 1999
10

You can't get better than this!  The best Special F/X, nice plot, great
acting, the only bad thing about it is that it makes my life look
boring.

******
19 May 1999
10

The Matrix is a film that provides quality entertainment for the time and
money invested by the viewer.  It is the first live action to capture the
essence of Japanese anime.  It also has transcendental themes that really
made it entertaining for me.  This is a step forward for the
fantasy/sci-fi
genre.  The action is Woo-ish and the effects are tight.  Best of all, the
movie provokes thought and that is one of the best things a film can
do.

******
19 May 1999
10

From start to finish this film has you firmly lodged into your seat.  the
SFX
are out of this world and the slow motions will have you gasping and
crying
out for more.  When this film finnishes you will watch it all over
again

******
18 May 1999
9

I thought I'd add to the chorus of approvals and thumb my nose at the
naysayers. From my observation, most of those who dislike the movie don't
really get the nuances of the film. Certainly it's not a picture for
everyone and of course there are going to be gaps in aspects of the
narrative. But what work of science fiction has ever been totally
gap-proof?
(Hence, the expression "science-fiction")
As one of those who enjoyed the movie thoroughly and saw it more than
once,
I believe it contains all the elements of a good movie: humour, a
freshness
about it, and a lot of great action sequences.
Will Star Wars measure up, I wonder?


******
18 May 1999
9

Whoa, was this a feast for your eyes or what?  A cinematic delight.  I
generally think Keanu Reeves is the work actor out there, but he delivers
nicely in this film.  The plot is a based on a concept that is so
unbelievable that I couldn't believe the directors would die write it, let
alone try it.  It caught my eye right away and my eye just grew wider and
wider per shot.  The epic battle between good and evil has reached a new
pinnacle with this  film.  The fighting scenes are done with great
cinematography and the whole movie is just completely beautiful to look
at.

******
18 May 1999
10

Imagine you finally wake up from lifelong illusions and your
consciousness
is but a nightmare.
Imagine you don't wake up. Imagine you discover your mind is not
necessarily
yours.
Imagine artificial intelligence creates men and not the other way
round.
Imagine you realize all dèja vu's and why you miss things you have never
seen.
Imagine the answer you have always been longing for is seeking you.Rethink power. Rethink freedom.
Mix Calderón's freewill dream; Bob's "Redemption Song" and Blake's arrows
of
desire; Deckart's awareness; Dufresne's hammer, and Babette's salvation.You may be the chosen one... but only if you choose to be
it!


******
18 May 1999
10

The story has a lot of elements taken from other movies. There is a lot
taken from Terminator, They Live and Nirvana, but the final result is a
really great movie with a non original but still wonderful story. It has
been such a pleasure watching this movie that I am planning to go to see
it
again as soon as possible. I think it's one of the best sci-fi/thriller
movie ever made.

******
17 May 1999
8

The amazement on everyone's face... the future retro world, if it exists,
set into play by the fuzzy logic of the king computer.  It's all hard to
swallow for some, but I enjoyed the ride thru this amazing landscape.  It
was a surreal experience to be sure, but the technical expansion of
special
effects into this landscape of "unreality" makes it believable.  The
concept
isn't that far off the mark from any time travel adventure or fairy tale.
Sit back and enjoy this film for it's fresh look at the good guys vs. the
bad and reel-in the sonic and visual stimulation of the many effects
sequences.  It's going to have precedence in the many copy-cat films to
follow, using these highly original techniques for presentation of
landscape, the fights and flights of our heroines.  See this film soon and
pay attention to the faces... as you leave the theater!


******
17 May 1999
8

Now, I have to admit I have seen it 3 times, and would have to call it the
best comedy of the year, which is precisely what works in it.  Have you
seen
_The Big Hit_?  The action is similar: there's nothing like breakdancing
assassins.The truth is, however, that for as interesting as the plot was, they left
little to the imagination, and in fact, it seemed way too mainstreamed and
given in too many nice, chewable bite-sized snippets for the recreational
viewer.  For a hot concept like the world as a matrix, the fact that this
came as such a mainstream attempt may further prove the existence of the
story in our world.How about the campy, uninspired romance that we would have been better
served without?  How about insufficient fancy slow-mo FX?  How about more,
more, more in-the-matrix interactions?With all of this said, it was a riveting and compelling big-balls action
flick, and the best I've seen in the genre, but its failings show through
where the whole genre falls through: ditch action-flick conventions for
better swagger and ego.  If _The Matrix_ had more faith in itself, it
would
not be necessary to make such grandiose appeals to the common
viewer.

******
17 May 1999
10

The Matrix was by far one of the best films that I have ever seen!  From
the
beginning to end I was on the edge of my seat.  It had lots of action in
the
movie and it was so sci-fi and weird. I loved the camera shots.  I think
that
every one should see this movie even if you do not like sci-fi movies.  I
can
not wait till this movie comes out on video so I can buy it. Keanu Reeves
and Laurence Fishburne are great!

******
17 May 1999
10

The Matrix was an excellent movie that provided an alternative perspective
on life and how we, as humans, observe it.  It really makes you think
about
the insignificance of the individual in comparison to the accomplishments
of
the world, the world & it's people, and what technology is bringing us
closer to.

******
17 May 1999
10

Hey, if you haven't seen this movie yet, you really don't get out much.
People who say this movie sucks like hell, really don't get the concept.
It
shows how dense they are.  I saw the movie about seven times and it got
better everytime because I caught some things that I haven't seen.  I also
read the real script, and screenplay, etc. and caught so much more.  So
for
all those of you who say this movie sucks, you have a real problem.  Okay,
so The Matrix may not be an original movie, but it sure makes the other
movies look bad.  For those of you who'd rather watch Star Wars than this,
you really don't know the truth.  First of all, the two movies are alike
in
so many ways.  Anakin Skywalker is kind of like a messiah and so is Neo.
There's the dark force (the matrix itself is the dark force) and there's
the
good force (the rebels).  They both use a lot of computer graphics, too.
But there is a very big difference.  The Matrix is the red pill and The
Phantom Menace is the blue pill.  The Phantom Menace is directed to
younger
children, believe me, why else would it be PG-13?  And The Matrix treats
you
as a smart adult.  The Matrix has a lot to talk about and some things you
have to find out for yourself.  Not only that, but some of my friends went
and saw a special screening of some sort and said, "It sucks!  Don't waste
your money on that movie, watch The Matrix instead!"  She said it was too
cutesy, unlike The Matrix.  She also said that The Phantom Menace
basically
treated the audience as if they were stupid, brainless people.  The movie
didn't make her think like The Matrix did.  Strange isn't it?  The movie
is
so hyped up, but probably won't live up to it like The Matrix did.  Not
only
that, but the trailer for The Matrix is far better than The Phantom
Menace.
I would also like to add my favorite quote from the movie: "Dodge this!"


******
16 May 1999
10

This is fun entertainment.  I enjoyed watching the movie, not only for the
F/X, but I wanted to know how the ending was going to turn out. The Matrix
did its best to keep you in suspense, and it worked....but, I do believe
that it could have done without the romance part.  Some of the other
comments have stated that they felt this movie left things
unexplained....I
for one didn't find anything that needed to be explained, I think the
movie
did a pretty good job in explaining something that is kind of tricky to
explain.The Matrix cleverly borrowed from other movies of this genre, i.e., Dark
City and Total Recall, and it packaged it quite nicely with astounding
special effects....to tell you the truth, I think The Gap commericals were
instrumental in the freeze-frame-camera-motion effects.  But,
nevertheless,
I would watch this movie twice..and to be honest with you, I think the
writers made this movie a bit confusing so that people will see it twice,
thereby increaseing the net profits of this movie....pretty
clever!One last note, If you enjoyed this movie, I suggest you rent Dark
City.

******
16 May 1999
10

Well, the best show this year so far.  Best blockbuster, that is.  And
finally, a show where Keanu doesn't stick out like a sore thumb or grate
on
the nerve incessantly....And of course, the end-millennium apocalyptic babe of all times - Carrie
Ann
Moss!!

******
16 May 1999
10

Who possibly could make a story this great and this gripping.  I did not
yawn I did not look away.  My eyes and my mind were planted.  People, this
is not one to miss.  It is filled with non-stop action, a gripping story,
and unpredictable scenes I give the MATRIX **** and a 10 out of
10.

******
15 May 1999
9

Okay, most movies with Keanu have to provide a limited acting
spectrum
for the guy, from the Bill and Ted light brain to the edge of
enlightenment
in Little Bhudda. This movie set him up just right, and used that presence
that always comes across as "Uh, gee, could someone tell me what's going
on
around here?", and made it work in a big way!The Matrix made it's next perfect move by coming out BEFORE the Star
Wars prequel, which according to some friends who saw the sneak peak,
isn't
all that wonderful. No matter how good or bad SWs is, The Matrix would've
lost a lot of steam following it and The Mummy. As it is, now, I'm fully
willing to go to the theater and take advantage of the long lines piling
up
behind those two theaters in order to squeeze through and put my bucks
into
seeing The Matrix a second time, something I haven't done since '77 for
the
original Star Wars film.If you've not seen it, DO IT! The Matrix is the perfect
Sci-Fi/Dream-Reality movie. It's what almost any Movie or Sci-Fi fan would
put together if they had the money, the time, and knew an actor who's
strongest point will always be looking totally lost, even if he's read the
script and should know what's happening ;-)


******
15 May 1999
10

This is one of those films that break the mold and define a new school of
film making. Think "2001", "Star Wars", "Blade Runner", "Alien". The story
is pretty familiar to most SF aficionados but we'll be seeing this style
of
film making well into the next decade.The story, though recycled, has a very savy post 90's spin to it that
makes
it entertaining as hell to most computer cognisati. Among other things it
rationalizes deja vu as an online program change and reveals the darker
side
of intelligent "agents". Though it seems to have been dipped once too
often
in the Zen reflecting pool and been filtered through the crash course of
"The Hero with a Thousand Faces" the story is still entertaining as well
as
worth listening to.So in synopsis, a really cool story with some of the finest film making
art
to come down the pike in a long stretch.

******
14 May 1999
10

So I must say I was shocked.
I don't think I am too much of an easy guy to impress. I usually am very
critical about movies, I've read a bunch of SciFi novels (from Asimov to
Gibson through P.K.Dick ...).
But this movie got me really shocked.
At the end of it I had to stay sit for a while and thing about it, and
most
probably I'll go back to see it in the next days.
I don't want to say the film is perfect, no way (anyway what does perfect
means) but it's very well done, it's a great synthesis of both sci-fi
state
of the art, movie special effects, and oneiric view of reality. Well acted
(no doubt about Keanu and Fishburne).
So that's all. Maybe after I've seen it another time I will post some
more.

******
14 May 1999
10

One thing I've noticed is that people either love or hate this movie
intensely.  I fall into the former category.What is there to hate about this movie?  Nothing save for the acting on
some
parts (you know who.  He's taken flak in every review).The story:  InnovativeThe plot:  Very well executed, but the ending seems rushed.The effects:  Absolutely bitchin'!  They will blow you away!  This the
first
true "how did they do that" movie since Terminator 2.This may be pre-emptive, but look for this movie to be the big one of
1999.

******
14 May 1999
8

The matrix is heavily influenced by a lot of other Sci-Fi films, most
notably such movies as Blade Runner and Johnny Mnemonic. There is also a
lot
of stuff you'll notice from other films, not least Star
Wars.
The Marix is a wonderful movie with a pretty straight forward plot, but
with
some AMAZING effects and a really good feel. The director and the cast are
superb in this movie, which could have been based on a William Gibson
book.
The Characters are very typical William Gibson characters and the level of
violence is typically Gibson as well.
All in all - go see it, if you enjoyed Johnny Mnemonic and/or Blade Runner
you're gonna love this.


******
14 May 1999
9

This movie Takes the best of Hong Kong action films, Comic Book artwork
and
Japanese animation and bank rolls it w/ American special effects to make a
killer sci-fi movie....give me more!!

******
13 May 1999
10

This movie is the best movie I've seen over the past few months.  It is
kinda hard to understand at times, but once you get into the movie, it
rocks.  I think Keanu Reeves did an excellent job in this movie.
Laurence Fishburne also did a great job playing Morpheus.  This movie has
everything from action to thrilling special effects to a little romance.
This movie is at least worth seeing once or twice.

******
13 May 1999
10

When I got out of the chair at the end of the movie, the arm rests had
grip
marks in them.  I had an almost impossible time resisting the urge to
start
running up the walls or jumping across multiple aisles in the parking lot.
I had to make a cell call after I got to my car, and, as soon as my friend
picked up, blurted out "Tank, I need an exit!  FAST!"There's no way a page of comments could describe this movie.  Go see it.
Go
see it now.  If you've already seen it, go see it again.


******
13 May 1999
10

this is truly the most awesome movie i have ever seen, and i've seen more
than a few!  the special effects are astounding, and acting is superb and
the plot is mind-bending!  personally, i suggest that if you ever see only
one movie, forget TITANIC and go for a REAL movie!  This is no doubt the
best film of the year, or even the next ten years!

******
12 May 1999
10

There has been so much religious comparisons on the Matrix pages that I
have
seen, it's astounding. beyond that... the Matrix is a film that you can
view
repeatedly and still find new things, new inside comments, nods, and
jokes,
and new angles of Keanu Reeves to stare at. Beyond that still is the best
cyberfilm to come out of the 90's. In fact I would go so far as to say
that
it's the best cyberfilm since Bladerunner. (which is a pre-mainstream
cyber
awareness film to begin with) and even though I like it, I can't with good
conscience include J.Mnemonic as a good cyberfilm. The f/x, story line,
and
cinematography is fluid and beautiful. Laurence Fishburne is as always
subtle and larger that life as Morpheus. Carrie-Anne Moss' Trinity kicks
almost as much butt as Milla Jovovich's Leeloo but with the grace of a
crane. Joe Pantoliano is wonderfully understated as our friendly, greasy
Judas, Cypher. Watch it...and dream...

******
12 May 1999
10

The Matrix has a very complicated plot and can be hard to understand at
first but it makes up for everything with its very unique effects.  This
has
got to be the BEST sci-fi movie so far this year!  What I really like
about
it is that it gets me thinking about what if WE have a matrix too.  What
if
we are all sleeping right now?  Great movie.

******
11 May 1999
10

I went to see this movie with my two kids (13,10) and three other grown
ups,
we had a great time! The audience was mostly mature and we surely laugh a
lot. The following week my kids asked if we could see it again, so we
went,
seeing the movie for the second time made me realise the hidden
subtleties;
this time it was a very young audience at the theatre and they did not
laugh
much, for them it seems to be a more serious affair. To observe this was
very interesting.What I like about the movie apart from the cast and the effects is the
fact
that the heroes look like everyday people, there is no glamour in them,
they
are good looking people, but normal; their clothes aren't very good, the
buildings where they do their dealings don't look like mansions. I like
the
fact that the top guy is a black man, and that the tough guy is a girl,
and
that the hero is a bit dumb, and that the main
computer/driver/operator looks very Latino!In general I don't like violent movies, with lots of guns and stuff like
that; however, this movie blows the usage of those artifacts to such a
level
that cannot be viewed seriously.The story line reminds me of Teachings of Don Juan and all those books
(Carlos Castaneda), which made me like the movie even more.Where is everything? And if everything is there where is
there?
And apparently through quantum physics we are becoming more aware of
NOTHING
and the POWER of NOTHINGNESS, and the more we look into tiny matter the
more
this matter seems to not be there, maybe we are in a matrix after
all!


******
11 May 1999
7

I saw the Matrix this past weekend and I was very impressed by it.  While
I
have certainly seen better sci/fiction films and better action films, it
was
nice to see the two genres combined so nicely. I would rank it up there
with
Terminator and Alien (s).  The story took a while to get going and there
are
also a few moments where you try to figure what Larry (whoops sorry,
Laurence) Fishburne is talking about, but once everything gets on track it
is a fun ride.  My one complaint is that except for a few instances you
never felt any empathy for the lead characters.  In other action adventure
films or sci fi flix you care if something happens to Luke Skywalker, or
Ripley or Indiana Jones.  In this you don't really care (at least I
didn't)
if Keanu or Larry kicked the bucket.  A little more character development
would have made me care a little more and would have put me on the edge of
my seat.  But it is still a fun movie, with some excellent effects and
most
importantly an interesting story that may make you run out and buy some
philosophy books.

******
10 May 1999
10

All I have to say is that if you're itching for a movie that'll test
you're
comprehension of life as a whole and the world you live in, then go see
this
movie. In addition to a thought-provoking story, this movie has it all.
The
effects are amazing, and the acting is great.

******
10 May 1999
10

This is one of the most entertaining movies I´ve seen this
year.
It´s visually stunning and and the martial arts direction by Woo-Ping Yuen
are amazing. All in all a great movie everybody should check out.

******
10 May 1999
10

This movie is Awesome.   You have to see this movie before you die
preferably while it's still in Theaters.  This movie describes a world
that
we are in but don't realize it.  To describe this movie is extremely hard.
to Quote Morphius ( Lawrence Fishburn)," to describe the Matrix is
impossible.   You have to see to believe it."

******
10 May 1999
10

I was glued to my seat during the entire movie, it was the most
entertaining
film I have seen in quite some time. The plot was also one of the best
developed sci-fi plots ever for a movie. Highly recommended, and a must
see
on the big screen.

******
10 May 1999
10

Forget the Biblical connotations.  Forget the fact that this is by far
Keanu
Reeves' best movie.  Laurence Fishburne, Carrie- Anne Moss, and Hugo
Weaving
make this movie the best I have ever seen.  The fighting sequences,
excellent sci-fi plot, and spectacular special effects make this a must
see.
The movie inspired me and also showed me in a "Neo"-Christian way, a
small
idea of what life on Earth may actually be.  It is actually easier to
understand the Christian philosophy after seeing this movie, though it
will
likely upset the hardcore Christian, who will witness mere mortals wield
power like that of God(s).

******
10 May 1999
10

I'll admit... I'm not a big Keanu Reeves fan, so I kept my expectations a
bit lower than usual when I went to see this movie. I was definitely
surprised! I think this was his best performance ever. Neo is a likable
character thrust into a world that he was neither aware of nor oriented
to,
and then expected to save. There is an innocence about the character that
is
touching when he discovers the Matrix and learns how to interact within
it.
As the movie progresses, you really hope that he is the
One.The rest of the cast was wonderful as well. I'm usually critical of the
strong female image many movies try to project. But this movie surprised
me
there as well. Trinity, played by Carrie-Anne Moss, is also an interesting
and compelling character. She initially appears to be Neo's
watcher/bodyguard, but somewhere the relationship becomes more personal...
and even more interesting.The visual effects were the best part of the film. That's mostly because I
can often clearly see the computer enhancements and can point them out.
These visual effects flowed smoothly and were not obvious. It really was
fantastic.Lastly, I've got to say I loved the Oracle. She was great.


******
10 May 1999
10

This movie, I thought kicked!  I mean, the ending did seem like a
cliff-hanger, and it did definitely leave you hanging.  But then I found
out
that this has the possibility of being a trilogy if it does well.  It had
better be a trilogy! So go out and see it!  Quickly, it is a great movie
and
all action/sci-fi lovers will love this flick.  Any movie lover/buff (like
me) will love this movie!

******
10 May 1999
7

The special effects are the best
I have ever seen, and I've seen
'em all.  The concept was a little
too dorm-roomy for my taste.  (Remember
those earnest conversations in your
sophomore year: "What if I'm just a
brain in a vat, man?  And all this is,
like, being fed into my mind by a mad
scientist or something?")  I loved the
actress who played Trinity.  How many
faces can survive such extreme close-ups?
And what a surprise to learn, here on
IMDb, that she was the female lead in
a 1993 TV series called -- are you ready
for this? -- "Matrix"!  Deja-vu, man.

******
9 May 1999
10

I saw this movie last night. I was going to see two movies. The Mummy and
The Matrix. I saw The Mummy first. It was good but didn't please me as
much
as The Matrix did. I got out of The Mummy later than I thought I would and
missed about 25 minutes of The Matrix. I don't think it mattered. I loved
all I saw. It was such a wild and loud ride, at one point, I thought I WAS
living the movie. The effects were very good. The best I've seen. The plot
was a little confusing but still it's just the best ride to take. The
parts
that really look cool are the training parts. The martial-arts moves were
astonishing. I want to go see it again but not because I missed the
beginning. I loved the parts movie that I saw so much. If you want to just
be lost for 2 hours 15 minutes than take this ride. If you don't then take
this ride. This is a movie that everyone will love. What about Keanu
Reeves?
He CAN act. I thought he did a really great job in this movie. I don't
know
if Star Wars-Episode One: The Phantom Menace can be as good as this movie.
We'll have to wait and find out.

******
9 May 1999
8

This coulda been a contender.  Actually, it kind of was, at least the
first
two hours.  What starts out as a mediocre hacker movie rapidly reveals
itself to be a full-bodied, classic, sci-fi story for the ages.  But then
it
gets side-tracked, stepping away from the complicated story and getting
comfortable in the special-effects enhanced, but basically old-fashioned,
shoot-out and marshall-arts sequences.  What could have been a great
sci-fi
film ends up as an action movie.  Plenty of pulse-pounding action to be
sure, but not what this film could have been.To be fair, this film mainly suffers by comparison with those truly great
dark sci-fi films:  "Dark City," "Blade Runner," "City of Lost Children,"
"Brazil."  Not being able to measure up doesn't make it a bad film, but
the
first two hours of this 144 minute epic promised so much more.  It COULD
have been in the same league, all it needed was a better ending to pull
together a bunch of loose ends and to emphasize the sci-fi premise.
Instead, and not a bad condolence prize for fans of Hong Kong action
movies,
Keanu Reeves gives a performance in the shootouts that would make Chow Yun
Fat envious.


******
8 May 1999
9

Though I am typically unimpressed by any work generated by Keanu Reeves,
this film really surprised me.  Of course, outstanding special effects and
a
noteworthy story line can't really hurt.  This was an "excellent"
(insert Keanu's surfer-boy accent here)film and I am eagerly
looking forward to the Wachowski's next endeavor.

******
8 May 1999
8

The Matrix is visually stunning.  The special effects just blew me away.
This movie really made me think about similar movies, such as Dark City,
The
Crow, even Batman.  I love this style of movie, and wish more would be
made
like it.  Although I'm not a big Keanu Reeves fan, he sort of pulls it off
in this movie.  The story, although slightly confusing at first, really
came
together, even though the ending came a little too quick and left me
sitting
there waiting for a more complete finish.  I would love to see a sequel
because I am interested in how this story would turn out...and they could
do
just about anything because it is, of course, set in the future.  All in
all, a great movie.

******
8 May 1999
10

I heard of this movie months before it came out, and thought it would be
another Sci-Fi flop. I was wrong. This movie just plain
rocks.1) Character development is limited to the main character, but I can
certainly live with that.2) Special FX are top of the line.3) Story may be unorigianl, but it is a classic plot that is told better
here than ever before.4) Cinematography is perfect. 'Nuff said.5) It's just cool!While it's not very origianl, it is done with a twist (a big one to be
honest) and I think it is possibly one of the best sci-fi films of all
time.

******
7 May 1999
8

"Matrix" was definitely thought-provoking.  I've been a hard-core science
fiction fan since I was in my early teens, and am always glad to see a
film
which draws on some of the more complex ideas of the written genre, as
opposed to stereotypical space operas.I did find a few faults with the underlying rationale for the AI
exploitation of the human race, however.  Supposedly the machines had been
almost entirely reliant on solar power (which I found a dubious premise to
begin with), and then we're told that the perpetual smog has blocked out
that power source, necessitating using people as living electrical
generators/batteries.  The problem with that idea is that a human being
(and
indeed any form of biological life) requires energy input, and where are
all
those calories coming from?  There was mention of recycling the dead
people
and feeding them to the live ones, but even assuming 100% energy recapture
efficiency (a practical impossibility), no more can be gotten out of the
people than is being put in, and the machines' use of that power
represents
an external drain on the biological system.  Also, I'm afraid it's absurd
to
postulate (as the movie did) that Earth's interior could cool
significantly
over the course of a couple of hundred years in the absence of sunlight --
it would probably take closer to a couple of billion years.  After all,
it's
almost as hot down below nowadays as it was a couple of billion years ago,
and the slow rate of heat loss by radiation into space has had a lot more
to
do with that than the influx of sunlight.These flaws didn't ruin the movie for me, because I could think of at
least
one better reason for the machines to be exploiting the human race in an
even more horrific fashion.  For instance, the human brain is a much
better
computer in some ways than anything we're ever likely to build, and I can
see how a new breed of artificial intelligences might want to use that
processing power for its own purposes.  And since very little of our brain
capacity is directly involved in conscious thought, I can see how the AIs
might be content to use only the unconscious parts, or possibly every
conscious effort by a human in the virtual world could actually be a
processing activity for the benefit of the machines in a disguised,
symbolic
form.  Thus, rather than providing us with a virtual reality merely to
keep
us biologically functional, the VR could be part of the exploitation
itself.For whatever purpose it might be done, the images of people being raised
from birth obliviously socketed in endless hardware arrays will be with me
for a long time.Of all the ideas presented in the movie, the one I found most intriguing
in
an intellectual sense was that even if we could be presented with a
perfect,
utopian virtual reality, our brains would reject it because the element of
struggle against adversity would be missing.  And I wonder how at the end,
the movie's hero could ever be sure that all his trials and seeming
successes within the virtual world, and even the supposedly real external
world, hadn't merely taken place in an even larger virtual reality.  How
could he ever know that his "real" body wasn't still plugged in somewhere?
For that matter, how can any of us ever know that ours aren't?  Descartes,
who mused several hundred years ago about the dilemma of a person trapped
by
an "evil genius" in an imaginary world indistinguishable from a real one,
would've appreciated "Matrix," I'm sure.

******
7 May 1999
8

Lucky me that I gave up on the plot very early, cause I could sit back and
enjoy Matrix for what it was--wild and fast.  Actually found concept
"real"
enough to be scary--could we be getting software downloaded into our
systems
in the future?  Kicked eXistenZ's butt.

******
6 May 1999
10

You must see The Matrix if you enjoy movies.  It's a very creative vision
that provides the viewer with a unique worldview as well as sensory
stimulation.
Some people don't like the movie, but there is no need to dwell on
individual things that you wouldn't like.  As a whole the movie is just
plain exciting!  Even if you don't like Keanu, just picture someone else
playing his role.  Unique twists, intentionally vague concepts and
creative
writing backup the awesome special effects.  The soundtrack rocks, too.
Although I would have preferred a little less Metal and a little more
variance.

******
5 May 1999
10

I must say I'm a sucker for movies that make you think. The idea that one
is
not in control of one's life may be a little over-used, but nevertheless,
this movie gives you the visual details you need.I must say though some of the jokes were cheesy (humans being made into
Duracell batteries for one), which produces several points of anti-climax,
it's not bad enough to make you not like it. The kung-fu was one thing
that
really kicked ass. First time I must say where kung-fu is used well. Also
incredibly imaginative at times in terms of the special effects (I mean,
I've never seen anything like this!). The fast dodging of bullets etc etc.
Though I must say the sound tended to be too loud at times for my
pleasure.I love the scene where Trinity finished off the Agent .. I mean, yeah,
girls, this is one woman to look up to! However, I must say the movie
didn't
explain how the hell the little system which the aliens destroyed
recovered
and how Neo managed to get back to the Matrix after that destruction and
what happened to Morpheus. I hope this is not a ploy to do a
sequel.At the end of the movie, let's just say, I felt as though I was in The
Matrix. Let's face it, reality sucks without split-split-second
kung-fu...

******
5 May 1999
10
Excellent.  Highly enjoyable, inteligent, exciting thiller, which
treated you as an intelegent adult. Not some brain dead child.


******
5 May 1999
10

The Matrix was one of the best movies I've seen in a long time, and I see
a
lot of movies.  It was a thinking man's action movie.  The combination of
brains (plotlines, dialogue, etc.) and action (Hong Kong style sequences
with intense camera work) mesh seductively to enthrall the viewer into the
world of the Matrix.  The special effects were phenomenal, making this
movie
a must see for just about anybody.  The critics like to give Keanu Reeves
a
hard time, but this was HIS role, fit to a tee.  As the movie ended, I
found
I wanted more.  Neo (Keanu's character) best summed up my reaction:
"Whoa!"

******
5 May 1999
9

This is a great movie. The premise was a bit unbelievable and there were
holes in the plot. But the movie was so well done that those lapses were
forgivable. The way the movie ended and with its success I'm sure there
will
be a sequel which I will look forward to seeing. 

******
4 May 1999
10

This movie is truly one of the best ever made.  Never has special effects,
plot, and Keanu Reeves been put successfully  in a movie so well.  The
plot
was very good and really made you think.  The special effects were some of
the best ever. I would recommend this movie to anyone.  Especially sci-fi
fans, and those who like movies that make you think.
***** out of *****

******
4 May 1999
10

This film is truly phenomenal, to say the least.  I have seen it 7 times
and
I do plan on seeing it at least 1 more time.  It makes me think about
numerous things each time I see it.  It touches base on a spiritual level,
intellectual, visual, as well as containing some pretty groovy dialogue
and
some kick a$$ visual effects (Carrie-Ann Moss) and fight scenes.  Sure to
be
my favorite film of the year, possibly decade.   ****

******
3 May 1999
10

This movie makes you question everything that you took for granted.  It's
amazing!  You will leave wondering whether or not you're who you think you
are and whether you can exist in the way you once did.
MUST SEE!

******
3 May 1999
10

This is one of the best Sci-fi movies as well as one of the best overall
movies to come along in a long time. It actually made you think and had a
plot as well as great special effects and chemistry between the actor. In
a
time when creativity has hit a low point in favor of a sure money maker it
was very enjoyable to see this movie unfold.We can only hope that if there is a sequel as some people have hinted that
it will only be done if all the actors come back. The last thing we need
is
another Speed 2 on our hands.

******
3 May 1999
10

This movie suprised me.  I was shocked to really fall in love with this
movie.  This has become my favorite sci-fi film of current time.  I just
really got attached to the film.  I thought the character interaction was
really great.  This was the first film I have ever saw at the theater more
than once.  I understand that Keenu Reeves is not the best actor but he
was
pretty good in the film.  They maybe could have picked someone better but
I
really think he fit in just right.  I really liked Lawrence as Morpheus.
I
have never heard of him until this film.  He was great with his acting.
He
is one who mostly carried the film.  Carrie as Trinity was also very
impressive.  She did a wonderful job.  This movie not only had great
special
effects but a wonderful plot.  It was a good idea it makes you think that
this could really happen.  I have seen Bound another Wachowski brother's
film and loved it too.  These directors are beginning to be some of my all
time favorites.  I am very anxious for a sequel but hope they will not
screw
it up as other sequels ruin the franchise like Batman & Robin.


******
3 May 1999
10

If you can imagine combining John Woo's cinematography, Jackie Chan's
choreography, and New Age epistemology you have The Matrix.  Neo, played
by
the surprisingly fitting Keanu Reeves, is about to discover the world in
which he lives is a lot less than it seems.  Chosen by Morpheus (Lawrence
Fishburne) he joins a group of rebels who know the truth and are beginning
to crack the code of our universe.  Dazzling effects, incredible camera
angles and slow motion shots depict these renegades as they learn how to
alter the physical parameters of the world around us.  A killer soundtrack
compliments the stunning visuals of this high energy techno
thriller.

******
2 May 1999
10

I'm not a sci fi lover and am not really sure what I expected from this
movie. Maybe this is why the story seemed so original to me and many
others,
the most original story I've seen in many years.Was blown away by the special effects but also connected to the movie on a
spiritual level - probably the stuff folks found really trite and silly
caused me to think about how I move through this world/life.Anyone who has experienced a spiritual "rebirth" will find much food
for thought here.My friend and I walked out of the theatre and immediatley purchased a
ticket
for the next show. I think I've seen it 6 times.

******
2 May 1999
10

Without a doubt, The Matrix is one of the finest science fiction films
I've
EVER seen -- and that hallowed category is sparsely populated, with peers
like "Bladerunner" and "Aliens".  These days, it seems as though the vast
majority of sci-fi is predictable, mediocre, and trashy.The Matrix is anything but.  It seeks out the basis of everything we
believe
to be real and forces us to question reality.  It's very existentialist,
after a fashion.  I, and a large number of my peers, left the theater in a
state of heightened awareness, thinking: "What IS real?"  That's the kind
of
lasting effect that this excellent film has on your state of mind.  The
overall plotline seems to be a take on Campbell's classic "hero's
journey"... but the film certainly doesn't suffer from being derivative of
it.But the story isn't the only winning point of the film.  Gripping combat
scenes, magnificently performed wire-work and stunts, some of the finest
and
most seamless special effects I've seen in ages....  All of these combine
with first-rate acting and a melange of contemporary music and
instrumental
scoring, to produce an epic, outstanding whole that will be remembered for
decades.  Personally, I'm avidly awaiting a sequel, if, as is rumored, the
Wachowski brothers plan this to be the first film in a trilogy.


******
2 May 1999
9

The Matrix is a very entertaining, thought-provoking film that combined
great camera work with a bold storyline.  It takes place about 200 years
from today, in a world ruled by computers.  Man programmed them to learn
and
evolve and is now reaping the punishment for that.  Humans are slaves to
the
machines, living out their whole lives in cocoons where their biochemical
energy is "farmed" to power the computers.  While their bodies are trapped
in these cocoons, their minds are trapped in "The Matrix," a hideously
complex computer simulation of late 20th Century.  The humans live happy
lives in this imagined world, ignorant of the true reality.But there are a handful of humans who live outside the Matrix.  These
computer "hackers" who live on the run from the computers know how to tap
into the Matrix.  They can observe those trapped in the program.  They can
even help them escape.  But they are first looking for the man who will
fulfill the Oracle's prophecy: the man who has the ability to "change
things" inside the Matrix.  The man who will be able to free humankind
from
bondage.

******
2 May 1999
10

One of the best episodes of STAR TREK: THE NEXT GENERATIOn featured an
ending where a mad scientist was locked into a holodeck, which gave him
the
illusion of reality but in fact was his prison.A similar story is at play here - computers have enslaved humans in
virtual prisons, and use their bodies for an energy source, but give the
humans a virtual reality to keep them from knowing the truth. But a small
band of pale, renegade humans have figured out the truth and are trying to
subvert the computer-master's plans.The Wachowski brothers, Larry and Andy, have created this premise as
much
more than an excuse to stage some of the finest fightr scenes and effects
sequences ever made; the plot works very well on a number of levels.
First,
it's an intriguing sci-fi thriller with plenty of unexpected twists and
turns. Second, it's a dramatic, suspenseful mind-f**k with a
through-the-looking-glass plot. But most effectively, it's an allegory - a
religious metaphor - with one man ("the One") called upon to harness his
gifts in the service of humankind.A very solid story backed up by wonderful action sequences and special
effects, with a great look to it and a sequel on the way.

******
2 May 1999
10

This movie is the best I've seen since Star Trek: Insurrection.  I
actually
had no desire to see it but went anyway.  I was shocked at the stunning
special effects that were put into this movie.  Definitely an award
winner!
I was left speechless afterwards.  There wasn't one thing I didn't like
about the movie.  Even the soundtrack is the best I've ever owned.  As of
now it's my all time favorite (the movie and the CD).  It'll take A LOT to
move this movie out of the #1 spot in my top 10 list!

******
1 May 1999
10

I thought this movie was amazing.  Sure a few of the scenes made me tired
just looking at them, but isn't that part of the fun? I also thought that
Keanu Reeves was perfectly cast, as well as Moss and Fishburne. The
effects
are absolutely awesome. I don't know why so many people didn't like this
movie; it was pure entertainment. It is one of the best movies I have seen
in a long time, and I think that anyone is looking for 2 hours of sci-fi
action and adventure should also check it out.I still say, if you want a good movie, check out The Matrix.

******
1 May 1999
10

The Matrix is a modern sci-fi masterpiece!  The direction of the Wachowski
brothers is faultless, they have managed to bring together a world of
action, confusion and struggle in a seamless tour-de-force. The acting (even
from Keanu) is great.  And the martial arts - WOW!!  Apparently, the actors
went through an intensive four month course for this movie...and they
actually do the fight scenes themselves.  Filmed in Sydney, Australia, this
movie is a must-see.

******
30 April 1999
9

The best of the genre so far.  Aside from some plot holes
big enough for a truck, this is a wonderful special effects
romp.  The acting is perfect (low key) for the film, too.
Sit back and take the ride.  You won't feel ripped off for paying $8.50 or
whatever.  Cheaper than Disneyland.

******
29 April 1999
7

This movie had everything that I hate in a movie.  Special effects that's
supposed to make up for a lack of plot.  Poorly developed characters.  No
meaning whatsoever (except for some cliched, hormonal message I guess).  And
Keanu Reeves.  It was one of those movies like ID4 and Armageddon than may
be a fun ride in the theater, but you leave feeling cheapened... and guilty.
Guilty because its so utterly stupid.  This movie had a cool idea, a pretty
awesome one I might say.  The special effects were incredible.  But, those
two qualities (the only good qualities this movie had) do not make a good
movie.I'll give it this -- In the long line of stupid movies, this one's probably
the best.   

******
29 April 1999
8

the matrix is amazing. i like sci-fi films and this one is really
outstanding. the story line is new to me and it is very thought provoking
although there are some vague areas which you just have to ignore so you can
enjoy the story as 'whole'.
keanu, laurence and carrie-anne did a great job on this film. carrie-anne
is great! she looked stunning and dangerous which made her a very strong
character in the film. while keanu and lauren did equally
well.
i understand that the matrix is based on a comic strip and this could be
the reason why the script is very delightful. there're lots of good plots in
the comic industry that need to be seriously looked upon.
the visual and sound effects are great and the action sequences are
amazing. the stunts are also well executed and graceful although at times
very violent. the dojo' scenes are cool.
this is  a must see for the sci-fi and effects fanatics out there. this is
one great film. 

******
29 April 1999
10

Finally, here is a movie that doesn't take for granted the intelligence of
the audience.  "The Matrix" is not only a pulse-pounding sci-fi action film
but it is also one that stimulates the mind.  With ingenious plot,
multi-dimensional characters, as well as intense symbolism and
socio-philosophy the movie not only keeps you on the edge of disbelief but
it also rocks your mind and soul.  12 out of 10.  Let's see if the Phantom
Menace can top this. 

******
29 April 1999
10

Keanu Reeves could have been replaced, but the supporting cast was
awesome.
The camera work was second to none.  The grafix, lets just say, too bad it
had to come out the same year as Phantom Menace.  The music was
surprisingly
fitting.  The idea behind the "Matrix" being a dream world, yadda yadda
yadda was imaginative, but the story line to the movie didn't go anywhere.
Seeing the second and third time, I actually noticed more and more, and it
actually adds more to the movie.  For anyone who's seen it once and
enjoyed
it, I recommend watching it a second time.  Third?  I dont know about that
one, but only rent/buy it if you have a nice home system.

******
29 April 1999
7

Great effects, surprisingly great performances and one hell of a story
line. One of the best Hollywood sci-fi films in a long time. Great
chemistry
between the lead characters. The stunts will take your breath away. I dare
you to see it! 

******
29 April 1999
10

This movie is the best movie I have seen so far in 1999. Keanu Reeves is a
master when it comes to action. This movie as some of the best visual
graphic I have ever seen. It has a lot of talented young stars like
Carrie-Ann Moss, who just plain kick butt.  Laurence Fishburne is also
excellent in the amazing sci-fi action film. I can't what to get it in my
home library. 

******
28 April 1999
10

My faith is now partially restored in Keanu with a passable performance in
this most stunning of movies.The scene where Keanu wakes up in the "goo" must be one of the most shocking
I have ever seen.  Done exeptionally well.Go see it.


******
28 April 1999
7

As long as you go into the theater without expecting anything along the
lines of acting, dialog, and plot, you will enjoy this movie. The look,
sound, and feel of the movie is consistently engaging and exhilarating. This
is definitely a movie that must be seen in a theater, as it will become
absolutely worthless as a video rental. If you want to a movie with some
intelligence, while maintaining a similar theme and excellent visual
effects, "Dark City" is the one to see. 

******
27 April 1999
10

The Matrix isn't for everyone, granted - the plot takes a long and winding
road to its resolution.  If you're the kind of person who can't sit and
pay
attention to something for two hours, then The Matrix isn't for you.  Go
watch a commercial.Just because it makes heavy use of special effects doesn't automatically
make it an "effects film" - to the contrary, The Matrix is one of the few
films that incorporates an intelligent plot with excellent special
effects.

******
27 April 1999
10

Once in a while, an SF movie comes along that is so beautifully crafted
and
conceived that it sets the mark against which others are judged. Star Wars
was one such movie. And I believe the Matrix is another.The special effects blew me away. And it's got all the elements that makes
it a superbly enjoyable movie: action, a hero everyone wants to identify
with, and romance.This one's going to be a classic. 

******
27 April 1999
10

I was quite surprised when I finally sat down to see the Matirx.  Like most
of you who saw it in its first week running, I had no Idea about the plot
and just assumed it would be a good Special Effects Movie.  Man, was I
totally wrong.  After about 20 minutes into the movie you are asking
yourself "Hey, is Keanu Reeves really acting this well?".  I sat and stared
in awe, at the screen, the plot was deep, the story had meaning, and Keanu
actually put serious effort into this one.  He didn't seem like the normal
Wooden Soldier... and Laurence Fishburne, man he is totally under
appreciated, he played a heck of a part.  All in all, one hell of a movie, I
give it a 8.  Most Def. with going to see, and don't make the mistake of
waiting till home video, this one has to be seen in the theaters, and make
it a Sony digital theater.  

******
27 April 1999
7

Note: this movie is best if you don't already know the
plot.When I first saw The Matrix I expected great things, and *WOW* did I get
them. The premise, special effects and mood are all jaw-droppingly clever
and well-done. But upon a second viewing I noticed some gaping
deficiencies:* It gets s-l-o-w in the middle. The bad kind of slow.* Details of how the Matrix works are conspicuously and unfortunately
missing.* The dialog -- although above cliché -- is lackluster.* Keanu Reeves can't act. I know he tries hard, but when he's not talking
or
fighting he looks like a stunned bunny.Overall, The Matrix is entirely worthy of a single viewing under optimum
conditions. That means in 70mm wide-screen format, digital sound, THX, and
hopefully no pagers, cell phones, crinkly candy wrappers or crying
babies.

******
27 April 1999
10

Everyone has basically said all the good stuff about this film already and
I
agree totally with them.  I don't know what's wrong with some of the
people
who say the plot's too "confusing" to understand as I enjoyed it very
much.
The action scenes literally blew me away and fitted right into the whole
story line.  Virtually everything was good about this film.  But enough
talking... GO OUT AND SEE THIS WICKED MOVIE!!You'll be sorry if you don't!

******
27 April 1999
8

I think this film presents a fantastic, top-notch, classic sci-fi premise.
The truth about the Matrix and how it unfolds is, to me, the strength of
this film. It doesn't fully explain itself and leaves one with a lot of
questions, especially about the relationship between the different
realities, and why actions in one affect the other as they do. But I don't
think that these gaps ruin the integrity of the concept. What DOES spoil
this integrity is the needless overloading of one's suspension of
disbelief.
Was it really necessary, and did it further the story in any way to
include
an unexplained resurrection? Or to allow the destruction of the ship to go
on for so long while it's crew and equipment remain totally undisturbed?
These are only two of the many instances where, apparently because someone
thinks it ADDS to the suspense and excitement, a gripping situation is
over-played to the point where it becomes too much work to keep trying to
buy into it.
The special effects are incredible. The look of the movie is strong. The
cast is up to the job, even stone-faced Keanu.
My only other gripe is the usual excess of bullets, and of violence that
has
no effect. I would think that it was obvious to film-makers now,
especially
after Private Ryan, that the way to make your movie violence effective is
to
give each and every "movie bullet" the action and effect of a real bullet.
The choreography is nice, but the pounding music, the cascade of cartridge
shells, and the piles of bodies becomes both numbing and boring after a
very
short while. Is there anyone out there who didn't find the scene on the
roof, where Neo dodges a total of maybe a dozen bullets, much more
exhilarating and interesting than the carnage in the lobby, where enough
bullets were fired to arm South Central L.A. for a year??!!

******
27 April 1999
10

This movie was excellent.  I was blown away by the effects and the plot.
The actors were top notch, even Keanu.  I think this is one of the three
roles I thought he was good in, the other two being his role in the
Devil's
Advocate and his role of a stoner in Love You to Death.  Lawrence
Fishburne
finally gets a role he deserves, I think he's underappreciated in his
roles.
So he's kinda got bad teeth, so did Austin Powers.  Trinity was YUMMY and
the villains were evil.  The fighting scenes were really cool.  

******
26 April 1999
10

Last year, it was "Dark City" that was hailed for it's visual achievement.
And though that film amazed me when I saw it, I find "The Matrix" to be even
more astounding and visually stunning. The first thing that amazed me about
the film was Keanu Reeves' performance. He is very good in this role, and
doesn't show a bit of bad acting. The first-rate special effects leave your
jaw dropping constantly, particularly the scenes where bullets are being
dodged. It's a brilliant entertainment that should be seen more than
once.

******
26 April 1999
10

Yes, as it has been said, the special effects were wonderful in this movie.
But also it must be said that this isn't just a treat for the eye to see;
The Matrix, the first of an intended trilogy, is a potential concept that
messes with your mind in a way no other movie has yet, in my opinion, been
capable of.  The scientific possibilities presented in Jurassic Park, for
example, are nothing compared with this, and the dark future lying in wait
for the human race could be out there.  I shudder to think of it, as this
brilliant movie makes it so real in its presentation of our blinded world.
It's as Morpheus says:  "No one can be told what the Matrix is; you have to
see it for yourself."

******
26 April 1999
9

I might add that the sound for this film is first rate.  I was complaining
to a friend just a few days prior to seeing The Matrix that a lot of films
don't know what to do with the Surround channels.  There is an old-school
mentality that says we mustn't be bombarded with audio data the whole time.
But isn't total immersion the point?In addition to aurally immersing us for nearly the entire movie, Dane Davis
and crew made some awesome fight noises and other special sounds, without
which the visual effects wouldn't have seemed quite so impressive.  My
favorite in particular is when Neo touches the mirror and screams; his
scream is broken down, sounding as if it had been turned into a bitstream
like those streaming green characters we see throughout the movie (a nod to
"Tron," perhaps, where Flynn gets reduced to his component
"bits.")See it in a THX-certified theater if you can...

******
26 April 1999
10

I'm sitting at my sofa, eating chips and watching TV. A preview for a new
movie, starring Keanu Reeves and Carrie Ann Moss, comes on so I hover around
the TV for an extra two seconds. The trailer looks great...the title is "The
Matrix". April 2nd rolls around and I wander off to Funscape, local movie
theater, to see this acclaimed movie. BOY WAS IT WORTH IT! An all too
realistic plot, combined with digitally enhanced special effects and IN YOUR
FACE fighting sequences ranks "The Matrix" at the top of best movies seen in
1999. I guarantee that you'll see "The Matrix" a first time, a second time,
and if you're me...a fifth time. Looking for something to do? Well then get
off your bupkiss and go see "The Matrix"! (In theaters
now)


******
26 April 1999
9

Cool stuff!  Pooh on all those that say "Bah Humbug" and find fault.  The
Matrix rrrrrocked!!! They should have stayed home.  Go rent "Room with a
View" or some other such tripe if you can't allow yourself to be sucked into
another reality.  The rest of you, you'll come out of this movie wanting to
run up the walls and wonder if the only reason you can't is because you
didn't know that you could.  Make sense?  No?  Go see it............
because there is no spoon.

******
25 April 1999
10

Of course the special effects in this movie are breathtaking, but there's
much more to The Matrix.  Carrie-Anne Moss (there's always so much going on
behind her eyes), Hugo Weaving (what fun he must have had with this!) and
Gloria Foster were fantastic in their roles.  The choreography and
cinematography both exceed all expectations in their attempt to style The
Matrix like a live-action anime'.The dialogue, with a few notable exceptions, is excellent, and the story
line does a great job of being as complex as it can be without losing the
audience (well, some folks can always get lost). Marcus Chong gets stuck
with a few lines that are less than choice, and how they are received
depends on how jaded the particular audience is.  The romance is also a
sticking point for those who gave up fairy tales for Goodfellas at the age
of six, which seems like a lot of us these days.  I'm baffled by how Lucas
can feed us the corny mystical stuff and we love it, but no one else can
completely get away with it.  But I digress.As hard as it is to imagine a Keanu Reeves movie inspiring discussions
regarding the nature of reality, that is what has happened.  An added bonus
is that the Matrix has fun, tipping its hat to other films and not taking
itself too seriously at times.  This is a movie that you can probably go see
five or six times and notice and appreciate something new every time.
Enjoy!Go Wachowski brothers!   Go Manex Visual Effects!   Go Carrie-Anne!  Go
whoever set up all those squibs! 

******
25 April 1999
7

When I went to see The Matrix, I thought it was just going to be another
effects movie.  I was right, and I was wrong:  this was THE effects movie!
At least around here effects movies are not expected to have much in the way
of story or characters, but the Matrix avoided both by introducing an edgy
plot and some pretty decent characters.  I agree that while Keanu is not an
incredible actor, he does have a good look and style, which actually worked
well.  Laurence Fishburne was excellent, as always, and well casted.  Last
comment:  I took my girlfriend to see this movie, and she actually got
motion sick!  says something about the effects, in my opinion. 

******
25 April 1999
10

I usually don't like science fiction based movies, but I absolutely loved
The Matrix.  I was stunned by the special effects and the plot was
incredibly interesting and had my attention the whole way through.  This
movie is the first film, in a very long time, that did not make me glance at
my watch to figure how much time I had left before I could leave.  Could a
woman actually like kung fu and guns?  Mix in Keanu Reeves and I have to say
yes, yes they can.  I am going to go back and watch this film to get the
finer points of the film that I may have not caught the first time around.
I can't say it's The Usual Suspects, but it's still one helluva a movie.  GO
SEE IT! 

******
25 April 1999
10

The Matrix is one of the BEST science fiction movies ever made. The acting
at times is just...acceptable and the story/plot has many elements that
have
been borrowed from other films, but, the Matrix executes the ideas in a
far
superior fashion.
This movie is eye candy at its best. Every special effect will make your
jaw hit the floor. The costumes are extremely stylish--I especially like
the
fact that the character "Switch" wears an all-white leather ensemble as
opposed to the all-black outfits all the other characters wear. She stands
out.
Even Keanu Reeves couldn't sink this one. The action sequences are
un-surpassed...the kung-fu is only out-done by perhaps some of Jackie Chan
or Jet Li's work...
There are some plot holes. But, the movie makes a great deal more sense
the
second or more times through, but you'll want to see it again for the
visual
effects.
I love this movie. 10/10. Although I admit nothing is perfect, the sheer
awe-inspiring effects have influenced my vote.

******
25 April 1999
7

The Matrix is an awesome fighting experience with a dull story and is almost
devoid of any charm.  Humans are supposed to be fighting with superbrainy
machines but I get to wonder who is human in this whole affair.  It is feast
of the eye but not the mind since there isn't any mental punch to it. The
matrix is nowhere and anywhere and that is exactly the way I felt after
seeing this film.  There is no message and nearing the end when love of a
woman gave the final edge needed to out-stunt the bad guys, the film became
unbearably ridiculous.  Still this film is not a bad film to see, unless you
want to do something meaningful with your time......,but who wants that
anyhow.  

******
25 April 1999
10

Not much to say really, Great F/X. Great acting from Laurence Fishburne.
Too
bad Keanu Reeves had to be in it though, but he does it ok really. I guess
it is just those of us who still remember him ruining a perfectly good
short
story like Johnny Nmemonic. Damn I don't like that guy. But the movie is
the
greatest. And the story... Talk about the perfect plot.


******
24 April 1999
9

There's nothing I could say about this movie that could fully explain how
awesome this movie was.  The visual effects made this more of an experience
than a movie and I highly recommend it to everyone for it will totally
change your perception on reality. 

******
24 April 1999
8

This is a great state of the art action film. Special effects are the best
I've ever seen. Plenty of action for every one.

******
24 April 1999
7

I had a bit of reluctance to see "The Matrix". I had figured it for one of
those run-of-the-mill stupid sci-fi films without a brain and all special
effects and didn't give it much thought after that. The reasons were
simple.1.  "Matrix", "13th Floor" and "Existenz" are all films that play with
"alternate realities" and none of their previews made me want to see them
much, with "The Matrix" perhaps tugging at my wallet just a
bit.2.  Lawrence Fishburne pulled me in to "Event Horizon" which was a pretty
bad film that I didn't expect "Matrix" to be any better than, and I still
haven't forgiven him for that.3.  Perhaps the strongest factor of all, Keanu Reeves, not being a bastion
of good taste or strong acting ability, whom the public can stand if he
simply can manage to not suck too badly. He brings a fairly robotic element
to all of his roles that may be appreciated in another century and make him
the actor of the millennium.4.  Lots of teenagers were raving about it. The same kind of people whom I
suspect are already lined up for the "Phantom Menace" which is the clearest
indication and proof of a loser with time on their hands as could ever be
devised. Lawn chairs + Laptops + 6 weeks = Loser.The reason I caved in to see it, however, was based on some positive reviews
from some reliable and trustworthy sources, and a good friend whom I don't
see much was eager to see it. My good friend Kalev also took the time to
relate some of the finer points of the film with great enthusiasm, and so I
promptly decided to see it. But most importantly of all, the Wachowski
Brothers were behind it, and I thoroughly enjoyed their film "Bound", so
there you have it.The film is a visually stunning, no contest. The acting is passable and the
dialogue is just on the edge of being too expository but the story's
elements are at times so complex, this measure can be forgiven quickly. This
is a film for the Marital Arts fan. The fight scenes are fantastic and
executed with originality.The story line owes a great debt to "Invasion Of The Body Snatchers", which
if you enjoyed the Matrix you should check out one or both of the first two
versions only. But as one of my "computer g_ _ k" friends has informed me,
"The Matrix" writers really did their homework and those aspects held up
well. Which is a factor that could easily get past me, but it's always nice
to find out that the writers cared enough to do their research. This film
almost assuredly will have you trying to figure out the finer points in the
parking lot.


******
24 April 1999
10

This is truly one of the best movies I have seen in a long time.  It's been
what seems like forever since a mainstream production has been so artistic
and yet so able to capture everything that makes a good movie interesting.
All the action, drama, and especially the visual effects are astounding.
The only drawback is the fact that Keanu Reeves plays the character of Neo
which is the film's focus.  If Keanu knew how to act instead of just playing
himself as every role he's ever done then this film would be ever better,
which is hard to imagine.  Another wonderful feature of this movie is that
it has a full and interesting plot.  Unlike most films of the recent past,
the storyline not only builds through out the movie but it also comes to a
very well done conclusion.  The Matrix is definitely an instant classic in
the sci-fi genre.  See this film...then see it again...and again...and
again...

******
24 April 1999
10

Wow!  This is such a great movie!  The film is packed with great characters
and the idea of what "The Matrix" is.  Although, it does lack a general
sense of purpose, it is still great!  Also, I believe that it gives the
viewer a sense of purpose and making the most out of everyday.  So, go see
it and enjoy it!

******
24 April 1999
10

Incredible! One word among many that can describe this nearly perfect movie.
I am as avid of a movie goer as there is and have seen nearly 50 movies
this year with this one being the best by far.  Along with a perfect plot
and near flawless action scenes the acting fit this film absolutely perfect.
Well I do not know what else to say but this movie gets a big thumbs up, an
A-, and a 9 in my book. Excellent!!    

******
23 April 1999
10

The Matrix is an outstanding example of special effects.  The movie can be
slow at the beginning, but be patient, it's worth every minute.  If you're
slightly confused at the start, wait because it will all come together by
the end.


******
23 April 1999
10

This was a great movie! I love Keanu Reeves and I loved the plot and I most
of all loved the special effects! They were so great! I mean what is real?
Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss were awesome! I loved the kung-fu
and the way they all looked so cool fighting! I also thought it was soooooo
cool when they would freeze an object in the air or on the ground (the water
part when Morpheus got shot in the ankle) and then they would take the
"camera" and rotate it around the object! Like when Trinity jumped up at the
beginning and when Neo and the head agent guy jumped at one another! I also
loved the part with the dodging bullets and when Trinity said, "dodge this"
and shot the agent in the head (kinda gruesome) good thing they actually
didn't show it! This movie is so awesome I have seen it 3 times and I
recommend you go see it again! 

******
22 April 1999
10

Damn...
The greatest film ever.
Too good for words, really.  Seen it 4 times.  Gonna go see it again this
weekend.  In fact, I had to get rid of a bunch of stuff on my hard drive to
make room for the ENTIRE movie in mpeg format.  1.3 gigs, but well worth it.
I'm still making it a point to see it every weekend at the
theater.
Effects were secondary to the wonderful story that was told superbly.It was quite a ride following the White Rabbit down its
hole...
Holding my breath til the sequel...

******
22 April 1999
10

Possibly the most impressive film of Sci-Fi genre I've ever seen. Very nice
visual effects, good action scenes and a bit of humor are as good as a
pleasant story in which a thin border between dream and reality fades away
and our mind can fly into this wonderful world of Human fighting against the
machine. 


******
22 April 1999
10

I know this comment I make will get lost in the already 200+ entries already
made (I blame myself for not posting opening day I saw it) but this really
marks a period in film history.Bound, one of my favorite movies ever, as you already know was the Wachowski
brother's first pic. The Matrix has the same style and wit, but more plot
holes and the curse of hollywood (occasional dumb dialog and scenes that
seem forced). But for what it was worth, the fx were great and the
performances where excellent. A MUST SEE, especially for sci-fi lovers
waiting for the release of The Phantom Menace. 

******
21 April 1999
7

Before I begin, let me say this: I am not a fan of Keanu Reeves' acting
ability.  Short of "Bill & Ted" movies, he hasn't found a niche yet (in my
opinion).  I went to see this film on the advice of several people whose
opinions are valuable to me.  What I found was that Keanu's normal
stupidity
actually was believable here!  This film (for Keanu) works!
Really.I was impressed with all the acting, the effects, and even with Keanu.
This
IS his best film to date.Is this film as good as the rating makes it sound? No.  I reserve an "8"
rating for films like "The Empire Strikes Back," but this films isn't as
bad
as a "6"...by default I give it a "7."  Could be a bit better, and could
have been a LOT worse!See this film if:(1) you're a big Keanu fan.
(2) you are a computer savy (IT professional) person
(3) you like fire-fight scenes.

******
21 April 1999
10

I loved this film. I've seen it twice already and plan to go see it again.
It redeemed Keanu Reeves for most of the crappy movies he has done. The
action and fight scenes in it were beautifully shot and the music in it
totally added to the affect of the film. The woman who played Trinity
(Carrie-Anne Moss)kicked some major butt in this movie. I was blown
away!!

******
21 April 1999
10

Reeves, and Fishburne, make a fantastic duo in this high packed action film.
This film raises many interesting questions, that require the movie to be
seen over and over again to before finally getting an acceptable answer to
them.Not since Johnny Mnemonic has Reeves been this good.  The movie give an
interesting twist to what people perceive as life.  

******
21 April 1999
10

This movie has no equal when it comes to combining the hottest action
scenes, the coolest protagonists, thought-provoking dialogue, and direct
parallels to the Old and New Testatment. It's hard to believe that Keanu
finally gets to play Jesus Christ in designer shades -- but he pulls it off
miraculously!Just pay attention to the way the movie uses the terms Zion, Trinity,
Nebuchadnezzar, the Oracle, the very first Matrix, sacrificing one's life
for another, and especially the resurrection of the Chosen One. Never has a
movie so skillfully employed Biblical doctrine in such a revealing fashion
without offending unbelievers. Those who believe in the One will know what
I'm talking about when they watch this thrilling movie! 


******
21 April 1999
7

Fun movie and great special effects, but not too much more.  Each character
dresses, looks, and acts in the same manner; mysteriously hidden behind
their sleek sunglasses and black trenchcoats.  The Matrix is over two hours
of a Buddha-like Lawrence Fishburne frowning, and a surprisingly tolerable
Keanu Reeves kept in a perpetual state of confusion.  Also, many of the
film's most exciting sequences were unfortunately drawn out.  However, The
Matrix redeems itself with graphic, yet interesting scenes and more
developed ideas that are reminiscent of other science fiction films such as
"Fire in the Sky" and "Terminator 2".  The Matrix is easily deserving of a
7/10. 

******
20 April 1999
10

A welcome balance of talent and execution.  The story, acting, special
effects and the music are well integrated; the pace of the film kept me
engaged from beginning to end.  I've seen the movie twice with my husband
and our 17 year old son.  This is a cyberspace version of Orwell's 1984,
Animal Farm and much, much more.  I loved every minute of
it. 

******
20 April 1999
10

I would LOVE to address some of the negative critiques, but I think some
people look too hard for faults.
This movie not only met, but exceeded my expectations for many reasons too
numerous to list here.  The visuals were stunning and the FX cutting edge.
After seeing the Wachowski brother's "Bound" (another visually beautiful
film), I see why they used the same cinematographer to lens this movie.
Their use of "bullet-time" photography and virtual camera panning (freeze
framing mixed with live action) was done superbly.  Yes, I know we've seen
this done recently for for numerous television commercials (e.g., the Gap commercial mentioned by another reviewer here also), but never with
such technical precision and poetic imagery.  "Poetic" you say?  Just as
Sam
Peckinpah was the first to show us artistic violence with his slo-mo
scenes
in "The Wild Bunch", Larry and Andy Wachowski have utilized new technology
to go the next step (the helicopter-machine-gun-rain-of-bullets scene was
dazzling!).
The opening sequence with Trinity running from the Agents, leaping from
the
rooftop, then diving through a window in the adjoining building, tumbling
down the stairs and landing face up, guns drawn, made my jaw drop.  And to
top it off, she picked the smallest window!
I didn't find the story line overly complex or convoluted, as I've read so
many have.  I mean, how do you present the concepts of virtual vs. real,
dream vs. waking, or parallel universes in an easily explained manner.
Did
everyone totally understand the parallel time lines and co-existence of
past, present and future from the "Back to the Future" trilogy.  I don't
think so!
The Matrix had story line flaws, yes.  For instance, why didn't Morpheus
get
hit by a stray bullet as Neo was spraying a deluge of machine gun fire in
the Agents office?  Why wasn't Neo running away from the agents in super-fast
motion instead of normal speed?  Hey, maybe he was tired!  He did take
quite
a beating.
The movie left me satiated but longing for more.  I was a little
disappointed that we didn't get to see a little more of Neo utilizing his
"oneness" power once he realized it.  Think of the possibilities!I LOVED this movie and, no matter what anyone says, Trinity's "dodge this'
line cracked me up!


******
20 April 1999
7

Many many many similar themes as Star Wars.
Couldn't help but keep thinking about that as I watched
it.
But it was pretty good.

******
20 April 1999
10

This movie had everything.  Plot, suspense, action, love, conflict,
resolve,
great special effects, great fight scenes, great directing, you name it.
Probably the best movie I have ever seen.  Can't wait to see the
sequel.

******
20 April 1999
10

What first appeared to be a "I'll wait till it comes out on video" turned
out to be the best sci-fi action flik since Terminator 2.. bar none.  The
trailers simply don't do it justice.  Perhaps enhancing the trailers would
have given the storyline away so I can see where they were coming from.
This is definitely a word of mouth film.This movie immerses you into a plot that would otherwise be hard to
swallow,
even with an open mind.  The screenplay is simply brilliant, and the
special
effects, well, it's just never been done before.With it's techno-pop soundtrack, intense action and cool shades you can't
miss with this one.  See it on the big screen before it's too
late!

******
20 April 1999
9

Like many others, I thought the action was a lot of fun, with great
visuals
and wonderful John Woo-style "ballet of bullets" sequences.  I thought the
various chase scenes and showdowns were well integrated with the plot, and
flowed seamlessly, with nothing I noticed in the way of obvious
plot-continuity errors.However, for anyone out there thinking this movie is really DEEP,
philosophically speaking, and ORIGINAL, in terms of plot scenario, must
not
have progressed passed the "midnight bong sessions" stage of their
education.  Come on people, characters asking "have you ever felt like you
don't know the difference between what is real and what is a dream?"  is
very run-of-the-mill in the sci-fantasy genre, as is much of the rest of
the
movie.Also, as for cinematic originality, this stuff has nothing on, say, Terry
Gilliam, Ridley Scott, or any of a number of other people.  They seem to
have borrowed and innovated all over the place, in terms of visuals, plot
devices, action sequences, and special effects.BUT HEY, they did a DAMN GOOD JOB OF THAT, so I say, why
not?
So don't get me wrong--I think this movie is great fun and sufficiently
original that it deserves its popularity, but think it's just plain wrong
to
declare this the "Best Movie Ever".

******
20 April 1999
10

The Matrix has to be one of the greatest movies to come out in a long
time.
And for once, it's not just the special effects that made the movie, the
plot as actually good, and the acting didn't suck. With plenty of
interesting twists and turns around every corning, and  wonderful special
effects, The Matrix is THE movie to see this spring.

******
20 April 1999
10

Although the story is little cliched and the premise a tad dodgy, this
movie
is a stunning visual rollercoster ride. The direction and style are so
compelling that any defects in the story are quickly swept
aside.One of the most enjoyable films Ive seen.

******
20 April 1999
10

First of all...wow!  This movie just absolutely blew me away.
It has everything a good science fiction movie needs and more.
The fight scenes were great, especially when combined with
special effects that set a whole new standard for action movies
everywhere.  The way the Wachowski bros. wove together parts
from different movies, books--even the bible!--was terrific.
They really did an amazing job.  The acting was terrific.  Keanu
Reeves made up for all the crap he's done since Speed, and I
have forgiven Carrie-Anne Moss for Models, inc.  The directors
really sucked every last bit of talent they could from the cast
and crew.  Finally, the camera work was fantastic--slow motion
fight scenes usually drive me nuts, but in this case I
absolutely loved it.  And the way they would rotate the camera
angles...kind of like those annoying gap commercials only way
more cool. The dipping, rotating shot of Keanu dodging bullets
on the roof in slow motion was the best. Anyway, I definitely
recommend this movie for anyone.

******
19 April 1999
10

Wow!I got the chance to see the Matrix in original language way before german
release date. What I saw was both intense and unique - never-seen-before
special effects combined with a really good story.I only noticed one negative thing - the trailer has an even better design
(cut, music).Unfortunately no-one can be told what the Matrix is - you have to see it for
yourself...Have fun!

******
19 April 1999
10

I had very high expectations going into this film,  The Matrix blew them
away!  It's as if they knew exactly what I would think was cool and made a
film for MY viewing pleasure! I loved nearly every aspect of this film!  The
Kung Fu fight scenes were some of the best I've ever seen (and I've seen a
lot)!  Beautiful use of slow motion and sound effects.  Fantastic
cinematography!  I can't wait to see what the Wachowski brothers next
project will be.  A thoroughly enjoyable movie experience! 

******
19 April 1999
10

When I first saw the trailer for this, I was thinking: "Oh great, another
Sci-Fi film with awesome special effects and probably nothing else
good."
I went to see it yesterday. I'm still picking up my jaw a day later. Wow,
what a film. It is the best written, best acted Sci-Fi movie since Star
Wars: The Empire Strikes Back. It was absolutely fantastic. I couldn't
believe how great that movie was. It was a 10 from start to finish and the
greatest film of the year, until The Phantom Menace comes out in a month. A
big thanks for everyone who made a wonderful movie experience.

******
19 April 1999
9

I love it when movies break the mold and last way longer than the usual
hollywood 90 minutes junkpile. The Matrix was a well thought-out movie, with
fair acting and solid special effects. Some scenes reminded me of 'Fire in
the Sky', and yes, it probably inspires itself from some other movies, but
it adds enough innovation and original concepts for it to be in a league of
its own. It'll certainly be a worthy DVD purchase. Check it out, unless you
often have problem understanding movie plots.

******
19 April 1999
9

The Matrix, according to Martin Heidegger's posthumous comments, is the
conclusion of the destining of the last 2000 years of western philosophy
(or, at least, the last couple of hours of western philosophy).  First,
Plato's myth of the cave - then much later - Descartes' pineal gland and its
vibrations, Locke's secondary qualities, self-enclosed non-disclosive Humean
impressions, Kant's appearances -- and finally the Gestell -- you have now
the Essence of the Matrix.  For more information, enroll in the nearest
philosophy department.

******
19 April 1999
9

I do not know if I really should say something about this
movie. But there is something which is certain, that is everyone has to see
this movie. It must be the one of its kind or the best of its kind. Never
seen a film such as this where the effects used as efficient and breath
taking as this. You feel the excitement and the amusement at the same
time.This is where the beginning, hope we will watch more like
these....


******
19 April 1999
10

Another plus for Keanu. Loving Carie-Anne and Lawrence . At first, I didn't
really care about seeing the movie, I could've waited till it came out on
video. But my dad suggested it, we saw it, and I was blown away. It's now my
fav movie, I've seen it 4 whole times and 2 half times. I know almost every
line and have two copies of the soundtrack. Unfortunatly no one can be told
what the matrix is, you have to see it for yourself. So get out there and
see it, you'll fall in love with all the characters.( and the fight scenes
)

******
19 April 1999
10

The special effects have been getting all the publicity about this film.  I
feel that that was only one of the things that made this movie great.
Granted with out them the movie would not be doing as well as it is but the
story line is what really grabbed me.  It was a movie that made me think and
not just sit there.  For a sci-fi movie to do that is amazing.  On top of
that this is a movie that takes the terminator series to another level.
This is a story line that could be true.  Every bit of it could be true.  I
would encourage anyone to go and view this movie.

******
19 April 1999
7

Confusing script, unless you want to sit through it three times, and action
scenes, contrary to previous comments, that you have not seen this type
action  scenes before. really.  How about the helicopter shootout scene at
the skyscraper, remember True Lies, How about the acrobatic amazonic
feminist fighting off the enemy, remember the fifth Element, the dark moody
themed art direction, remember Batman, Dark City, Blade Runner, and how
about the silly script, He is the one, He is the One,  etc etc.  Joel Silver
and how many respectable critics are trying to sell this one.  Not to this
guy.  It is a B- at best.  The acting is fine by Fishburne and Weaving, and
the soundtrack and dazzling imagery does make up for some of the often seen
scenes in other movies.  Enough Said.  On to Star Wars where we probably can
expect the same. 

******
18 April 1999
7

I agree with another reviewer, Reeves was a great choice for Neo.  Overall
I
liked this movie a lot.  The special effects
were just stunning.But, when I left the theater my ears were actually hurting from the
volume.
I complained to the management and was told that the movie comes with a
recommended setting.  Hollywood listen up or all your movie goers are
gonna
be DEAF.I had read reviews of this movie prior to seeing it.  They spoke of
complex
plotting, a thinking man's action pic etc.. so maybe I was expecting to
much.  The plot was good but took no effort to follow and as typical of
summer action movies the action sequences toward the end just go on and on
and on and on and on......My rating for this movie is a 7.  My companion only gives it a
5.If you are going to see it definitely see it at a theater don't wait for
video
and take your ear plugs.

******
18 April 1999
8

With the coming of technology,it was just a matter of time that the
cinematic experience would change.The very good use of slow motion and
suspended in time view, put The Matrix in the leading edge of the new
techno-cinema. Because the script moves sometime as slowly as paint
drying,this movie is kept from being a great one. But for me as well as
many
thousands, this atmospheric film is a joy for the vision a movie should
be,
but don't miss any line because you are going to need help to catch
up.Welcome back Keanu.

******
18 April 1999
10

The Matrix is the best movie I have ever seen.  It was amazing for the
special effects.  It also made you think.  Can we choose our own path in
life or are we pre-destined to do certain things and make certain
decisions.
Reeves deserves some props for portraying the reluctant hero, Neo.
Fishburne as Morpheus almost gets lost in the shuffle because the role he
plays is not as flashy as the others.  Hugo Weaving did a great job as
agent
Smith.  His relentless search for Morpheus was reminiscent of the search
for Richard Kimble on the series The Fugitve. Carrie-Anne Moss also
deserves
a shout out for her portrayal of Trinity.  Best of all, however, was when
Reeves realizes that he is "the one" and you recall the final fight scene
in
The Last Dragon.  This is one of the few movies that is worth the price of
admission two or three times. 

******
18 April 1999
9

I loved The Matrix.  It was a visual ride and didn't condescend to its
audience for a moment in its plot, in the questions that it posed to its
audience.  However, the film could have been made even more compelling and
exciting with characters who were better developed and a stronger human
element to the story.  Still, it is the best science fiction film since
Strange Days (an underrated science fiction masterpiece) and the best
action
film since Face-Off.  (By science fiction, I mean true science fiction
that
uses technology to explore some question of human existence, not
straightforward action films that happen to take place in the future or,
as
in Star Wars, the distant past.)  It is the more compelling human stories
and well-crafted dialogue of these two films that give them the edge on
The
Matrix. 

******
18 April 1999
9

I was terrified of a let down as I walked into the stadium seating theater
to see this film.  I was disappointed in a few of the last movies that I
went into with high anticipations for (Dragonheart, Spawn and a few
others).
I was not to be left wanting this time.The Matrix is a ground breaking film with outstanding direction and
cinematography, a sold story and good acting.  Even Keeanu Reeves nay
sayers
shouldn't be able to really pick his performance apart that
badly.This movie will do for the cyber-punk genre what Star Wars did for
Fantasy/Sci-Fi, especially with the rumors floating about that this is the
first in a trilogy.  From start to finish, I was on the edge of my seat,
riveted and throughly entertained.  The last two minutes of the film
wasn't
the strongest ending ever, but after hearing the trilogy rumors, I forgot
my
complaints about that.  This wasn't your typical Hollywood, leave it open
ended for a sequel, it was planned.The Wachowski brothers are the new hot shot directors in the biz.  Between
the independent Bound and now The Matrix, I see an innovative genius in
their work.  They know how to blend classic themes and techniques keeping
everything fresh and exciting.  I rank them with the short list of
directors
that I will draw me to a movie by name alone (Ridley Scott, James Cameron,
David Fincher, Steven Spielberg, Francis Ford Coppela among others on said
list.)Lawrence Fishburn is solid as usual.  He looked like he was having fun
during the filming which will always increase the quality of an actor's
performance.  New comers to big budget features Carrie-Ann Moss and Hugo
Weaving were great.  Moss was far more than just eye candy (though her
patent leather costumes were to die for) and Weaving was truly sinister.
Both should have a bright future in Hollywood.The special effects are top notch.  While I'm sure the Phantom Menace will
amaze even more, the reported 60 million dollar budget makes what they did
in The Matrix just that much more impressive.The Kung-Fu.....  Wow.  The choreography was amazing.  It was very
apparent
of the long hours of training that the actors spent during pre-production.
They made Keanu, Lawrence and Hugo look like they had been doing martial
arts for many years.All in all, one of the best movies I have ever seen and easily the best
movie of recent years.  Not since Braveheart have I seen a film that has
drawn me back for repeat viewings so  many times in its first few weeks of
release.I give it a nine only because tens are ratings that I have only given out
once or twice ever.A MUST SEE for any fan of the genre.

******
18 April 1999
10

Ok, this is the best movie I've ever seen.  Its story really does make you
wonder(and I know you have all wondered things like this before the movie)
if something like the Matrix is real!  The whole movie is amazing, from
the
story straight down to the solid acting performance(especially my fav
actress miss Carrie-Anne Moss[she's my favorite for a long time now]).  I
like the special effects, especially the "Bullet Time" that John Gaeta
did!
I'll have seen it three times once Thurday comes around cause I'm seeing
it
again on Wednesday!!  Tremendous!

******
18 April 1999
9

This movie was a visual trip. It had some plot points I didn't like
very
much, but till I make my own movie, I guess I can't complain too much. The
story was well written and thought out, the special effects were
spectacular, and the cinematic style was cyberchic'. Cool looking People
doing Really cool things, to cool villians. I could see the word sequel
screaming at me as the last scene unfurled.
I'll stand in line to see the sequel too. Reeves is a wooden block, but
the other performances are good enough that you don't mind. The
anime-cum-Hong-Kong fight scenes are great too. Great movie, great time.
great trip.

******
18 April 1999
10

For pure entertainment value and a film that left me wanting more, this is
it! Be warned that I'm not going to examine The Matrix on a metaphysical
level, or compare it directly to anything as some people have done. I went
in with no preconceptions or expectations, and obviously walked out more
satisfied than many who did.I'll discuss the plot line of the Matrix down further, but for now I will
say the only problem I had with any character was Reeves' "whoa". This,
combined with his accent, can't help but remind you a little of two guys
in
bright clothing having excellent adventures in a phone
booth.Reeves plays very well the hacker suddenly exposed to the truth, adapting
to
his environment with the ease of those enamored of information technology.
He hungers for knowledge, seeks the truth, and wants answers to his
questions. He doesn't receive all the answers, but he knows his battle
with
the AI society of the Matrix will bring him closer.Fishburne is great as the enigmatic Morpheus. At first complex, his simple
belief that Neo is The One pushes him on in his quest, and we see his
simple
dedication to humanity evident in the pains he goes through to protect
Zion.Carrie Anne Moss is excellent as Trinity. (I have to say that "Dodge this"
was one of the cooler moments for me in the film - yeah shallow I know).
She
does the kick a** female with a confident, yet fragile femininity that she
only exposes in humanity's hour of need.Hugo Weaving. What can you say? As a proud Aussie, I am completely
satisfied
with his performance as the spine-chilling Agent Smith. A lot of people I
talked to were really annoyed by his accent, but I felt that it suited an
AI
program attempting to fit into a human society and develop human traits.
His
icy, blank faced portrayal of Agent Smith (with Agent Jones and Agent
Brown), really carried the uncaring authority figure of the Matrix into
the
human world.Weaving, along with other Australian/New Zealand actors (Matt Doran as
"Mouse", Belinda McClory as "Switch", and Julian Arahanga as "Apo", along
with the agents and a host of extras) gave good background to the other
characters, even though their roles were short lived. Hopefully we will
see
a lot more local talent in upcoming features (Star Wars Episode II,
Mission
Impossible II).Joe Pantoliano makes a great Cypher - the disillusioned follower of
Morpheus.The parts of Tank and Dozer were ably played by Marcus Chong and Ray
Anthony
Parker, as the only two "real humans" we saw in the whole film. You see in
Tank and Dozer a happier, more positive attitude, having been born in the
human outpost of Zion, and believing implicitly with Morpheus that Neo is
The One.The special effects strength were nothing short of unique, with the
combination of Hong Kong wire cradles combined with unreal, "computer
generated" settings and wardrobe, and slow-mo "moment in time"
multi-camera
techniques. That is all I have to say on the matter, because they have to
be
seen to be believed.I have a problem with people who knocked the film. Most of their reasoning
probably stems from the fact that they are addicted to their own flavour
of
sci-fi (and there is NOTHING wrong with that), or expect high philosophy
every time they walk into a cinema. I accept that there were parts that
they
didn't like, but I feel that rather than trying an all-encompassing tale
told from start to finish, the Wachowski Brothers were showing us a small,
but important part of the world of the Matrix.Everyone who has watched a sci-fi feature film knows that in no real way
can
the director(s) give us the entire history of their unique world in 3
hours
or less. The Star Trek movies, for instance, have whole series' to back
them
up before they hit the big screen. Conversely, "Dark City" stood alone,
and
people who didn't like it often said that "not enough was explained" (as
they did with the Matrix), or compared it to other, better established
series/films. Was everyone disappointed with "Star Wars" when it was first
released? NO! They went in, saw a good film with simple plot ideas and
characters, got their money's worth and walked out. I think somewhere
along
the line we just got too fussy, and we forget that it's a movie -
entertainment for a couple of hours.I had no preconceptions that this movie would give me the history or end
of
the world. I say honestly went in to the cinema looking for a story on
"lotsa guns and kicking heads", not to mention the unique special effects.
I
was pleasantly surprised.The concept of the Matrix running our lives was an important part of the
film. I accepted this, but did NOT wait for some quasi-religious
justification to develop from this. It was simply a fact taken into
account
by Morpheus and his disciples when combating the Matrix in their search
for
"The One". It was no character's task to analyse this on a metaphysical
level - their task was to begin destruction of the Matrix, and this was
all
that the Directing and Editing crew could fit into this movie time
frame.There is room for sequels here, (like others, I want to see Zion) and I
hope
that it will again be the Wachowski brothers at the helm, to continue
their
vision in the style to which we have become accustomed. The Matrix gets
10/10.

******
18 April 1999
10

This movie was totally awesome.  It had a good script, good actors, an
excellent plot, and the movie was just well organized.  I loved the action,
and the effects.  Didn't care for the end too much with the romance stuff,
but other than that the movie was very well done. 

******
18 April 1999
9

This was the movie I'd always imagined; creepy, drippy, malevolent sets
like
City of Lost Children & Aliens, interesting plot idea (Is it REAL?),
literally unreal graphics, stunning imagery.
Ever played a cyberpunk-RPG? See this movie. Ideas galore! Dialogue to die
for!
Derivative? Arguably?
Sparse? Possibly.
Better than the sum of its borrowed parts?  You Betcha.
Gonna see it again without a doubt.

******
17 April 1999
9

It's absurd that people are criticizing this movie for borrowing too
heavily
from sci-fi classics, modern philosophy, and martial arts action
thrillers.
Even Roger Ebert criticized the movie along these lines.  The fact that
the
Wachowski's were able to integrate those 3 "genres" into a mind gripping,
eye popping, heart pounding story is quite a feat in and of itself.
"There
is nothing new under the sun" so you might as well borrow from interesting
themes as opposed to mindless ones.  I hope Hollywood gets the message
that
people want to find a story underneath those million dollar effects.  It
does not have to be completely original just good.  Free your
mind...

******
17 April 1999
8

As movie making in general goes, I can't recommend this movie for
everyone. The dialogue was spotty at times, and the second act dragged on
a
bit. Plus there was a certain predictability and some corny moments. The
idea of "The Matrix" is a plausible one,though, and feeds a bit on modern
anxieties associated with our existence.
For those who like "date" movies, tear-jerkers, and the like, this
may
not be your sort of film. However. If you enjoy action and/or
sci-fi...this
movie's got it! If you can stomach the first six minutes, you're ready for
the rest of the rollercoaster.
Keanu Reeves does a good job in an understated role, and Laurence
Fishburne is excellent. I did have problems with focusing on Joe
Pantoliano
a bit too much. He does a good job, but the subject matter demanded that
less time be spent on his machinations. Hugo Weaving was great! Put the
man
up for best supporting actor! It was great fun to watch him be the bad
guy.
The rest of the cast did well also.
Between the 3D-imaging, effects, rock-em sock-em stunts, likeability
of
the leads, pacing, and music score...The Matrix Rox!!

******
17 April 1999
9

I would have to say that the Matrix is my second favorite movie ever,
after
the Star Wars Trilogy. Although it is no means as powerful{obviously} as
films like Saving Private Ryan and Schindler's List, it is a very
imagnative, exciting, superbly acted, film. I have a new respect for Keanu
Reeves. This film, I hope, will get nominated for some awards. It deserves
a
few, at least. I had huge expectations, and this film BLEW THEM AWAY. It
is
violent, but the language is very tame. There was not a single use of the
f-word anywhere! That's impressive. This is one of the best movies I have
ever seen. I mean it. I won't try and describe how amazing it is. It can't
be done.

******
17 April 1999
10

The "Matrix" really gets your mind working. The special effects are great
but I don't think that that is what makes it a good Movie. The "Matrix"
has a
great plot and it's original. The characters were portrayed very well,
especially Laurance Fishburne as "Morpheus" and Keanu Reeves is the
perfect
match for Neo, I had my Doubts about him but after I saw it I Thought he
was
great.If you think it's a bad movie you better see it again because
obviously
you didn't understand itThe first time you see this Movie Many ideas will pop into your head about
what's going on, the dialogue was planned out very well and it's hard to
tell
what the plot is at first. you really don't know what's happening until
"Neo"
meets up with "Morpheus" and he shows him what the "Matrix"
is.I rated This Movie a 10 Because I love the plot and dialogue. and the
special effects help too. Basically it's an all-around good
Movie.


******
17 April 1999
9

This was a long movie - during which my opinon changed somewhat. I usually
try to avoid rating it until it is nearing completion - thinking about
what
could cause it to be rated one notch higher or lower between that point
and
the end. I just love statistics!Anyway, for much of it, I had decided that the essence of the movie
deserved
a 7 and the special effects deserved a 9. But, the last half hour of
Matrix
is so sensational and unbelievable (the effects 10+ and the story and
substance at least a strong 8), that I ultimately gave the movie a
9.This is the best special effects movie ever made without question! If ever
there was a movie to see at a big screen theater - this is it. Even those
(including the person I went with) who don't love the genre (cross between
Blade Runner, Aliens, and Terminator) will be mesmerized by the special
effects.I truly don't know what's next with special effects, however every few
years
I believe that I've seen a movie which moved them to a new level. And,
each
time, I can't imagine what more they can do. The exciting thing is that
they
will keep getting better - and I'll be there.

******
17 April 1999
9

To give you the honest truth when I first went to see this movie I
expected
a general old fashioned run of the mill great special FX with good action
but
absolutley no Plot! Well I am happy to say I was mistaken about this
movie!
From the opening scene the whole way to the end of the movie I was
captivated and in awe. The FX were great, the acting above average
especially for Keanu Reeves who I have found in the past to be bland and
dry
as an actor, but he really excelled with this part. There were a few plot
holes, but they did not take away from the movie at all, overall it was a
great movie and after you get done watching it you will be asking yourself
lots of questions about what is really real in this "world" we live
in!

******
17 April 1999
10

Keanu Reeves hasn't had much success in the sci-fi genre in years past
(I'm
sure we all remember "Johnny Mnemonic"?), but "The Matrix" is really an
excellent film.  It's worth seeing for the special effects alone, but the
premise is interesting if unbelievable and the plot is surprisingly
strong.
The must-see movie of 1999 so far.

******
17 April 1999
9

This movie has risen to fame faster than any other in resent history. And
with good reason. It has once again raised the bar for sci-fi and special
effects. The plot is somewhat old-hat, for if you've seen alot of sci-fi
movies, the idea of parallel universes ain't all that different. But you
must look past that.
1) the acting and dialouge are great. The actor who played Smith
was excellent.
2) the special effects
3) the set directions and the costumes are great. The settings all very
spooky.
3 good reasons beyond a good plot to appreciate the Matrix. It's
20 on the IMDB's 250 list and I hope it stays there. This has to be one of
the greatest sci-fi movies ever. It should be compared
to films like '2001' 'Star Wars' and '12 monkeys'. It will undoubtebly
bring
the directors to international fame. Did I mention you should go see it?


******
17 April 1999
10

The Matrix has the best blend of sci-fi and action that I've seen in a
long
time. I am big sci-fi and action movie fan and an even bigger martial arts
fan. The Matrix superbly mixes Star Wars and Mortal Kombat, adding in some
Bruce Lee and Bruce Willis, topping it off with a little love interest.
The
special effects are so phenomenal they make Jurassic Park look
prehistoric.
The soundtrack rocks! Laurence Fishburne and Keanu Reeves are excellent in
their respective teacher/apprentice roles. I almost never watch the same
movie twice on it's original release, but I've already seen it twice! My
eternal thanks goes out to The Wachowski Brothers as well as the rest of
the
cast and crew for reviving my movie going experience.


******
17 April 1999
8

I'm not into techno gen-X movies, but more of the classical art house type
movies.  But my friends all kept recommending to see this movie and I'm
glad
I listened.Take away all the killer special effects and fancy martial art scenes and
what you get is a movie that still has a well written plot!  I was on the
edge of my seat the entire time.Go see this movie, it's definitely worth all the hype (oh and an added
plus,
I had the Star Wars preview too!)


******
16 April 1999
10

This is surely the sci-fi action thriller of the year. The superb acting
skills of Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne, combined with the fresh
original plot created by Andy Wachowski and Larry Wachowski and the seam
less special effects scenes created in Australia! Have united to form a
movie to entertain all thrill seekers. 

******
16 April 1999
6

It took the first one-third of this movie for me to understand the premise.
During this time, I thought the movie moved a bit slow and I even considered
leaving the theater. However, once I understood the plot, the movie was very
enjoyable and was I glad that I stayed for the conclusion.

******
16 April 1999
10

Never have I seen such a visually astounding movie.  The Wachowski brothers
have found the perfect balance of special effects, action, and plot.  Each
cast member brought a unique personality to the movie and cannot be replaced
by anyone.  Keanu Reeves brings his dark sexy intelligent look, Carrie-Anne
Moss shows us that a woman can definitely kick some butt and still be
feminine, and Laurence Fishburne brings god-like wisdom.  If you have not
seen this movie, I suggest you leave NOW, and The Matrix will have you too.
Can't wait for the sequels. 

******
16 April 1999
10

Whether you are a computer buff or not the special effects of this movie
will blow you away and leave you dazed.  The plot of this movie will
actually make you think of your own life and your surroundings.  A must must
see.  

******
16 April 1999
10

I went into this movie thinking it would be just a movie to pass the time.
But was I wrong.  From the moment it starts it captures you into its web of
twists and turns.  It has the best special effects I've seen in a long time,
and the best action sequences since Face/Off.  Go see this movie RIGHT
NOW.

******
16 April 1999
10

This is a classic movie - a beautiful and powerful movie.  There is so much
packed into it, that I had to see it twice in a week.  It is a unique
success!You can enjoy it as an action-film, or as a serious SF drama, or as a
graduate course in philosophy and literature.  It is densely packed with
ideas and questions as to the meaning of "reality".  Of all the SF films I
have seen in the last 50 years, I have to put this one in the top 10.Yes, it is a complicated story and, yes, you have to pay attention, but it
is all tied logically together.  The fight scenes are choreographed as
beautifully as a ballet. (The actors trained for 4 months just to ensure
that they used the minimum amount of fight doubles.)  The special effects
are seamless and greatly enhance the story.   The enemy forces lead by Agent
Smith (Hugo Weaving) are fascinating, dangerous, and remorseless.  All
actors hit their marks and deliver.It is a "dense" movie with many layers and literary and cultural allusions.
Example, Neo (Keanu) apartment number is 101.  That is the same room number
used in Orwell's 1984 in which Winston Smith faces his worst fears and is
broken.Don't miss it - or you will never get free of the Matrix! 

******
16 April 1999
10

After seeing the trailers for this movie (especially the one where they play
Enigma to the slow motion action sequences), I was over-excited to see this
movie. Once it finally came out, I walked into the theater with high
expectations. The movie far exceeded my expectations. What we have here is a
masterpiece of filmmaking. It is visually, as well as intellectually,
stimulating. It's a special effects ride with a storyline, an actual plot.
The special effects don't get in the way of the story, they enhance it. The
action sequences were amazing. The slow-motion technique used throughout the
movie gave me chills. The Jackie Chan/Bruce Lee-like martial arts sequences
will leave you smiling and wanting more. I felt myself tensing and holding
my breath throughout the whole film. And the bullets!! They speak for
themselves! The cinematography was perfect. I loved every camera angle,
every shot, every extreme close up-fast out, in this movie. The acting of
everyone was very well done. Say what you will about Keanu Reeves' acting
ability, he did a good job with this movie. He had the perfect look for the
character he played. This movie is highly recommended to anyone who is even
the smallest fan of sci-fi, cyberpunk, film noir. It will blow your
mind. 

******
15 April 1999
10

This movie is a must see for anyone who is a fan of the action and sci fi
genres.  I went after tons of my friends told me it was "awesome" and I
wasn't disappointed.  The effects - which LOOKED real - only added to the
development of the story, and like any good sci fi movie, man's relationship
with technology is one of the main themes of the movie.  The literary &
mythological references were great & the general plot and its underlying
theme about man's place in the world were solid.But let me say this - if you want to go to a movie that rocks, this movie is
a must see!  It's not just for the thinker, either.  It just plain rocks, or
as some of my friends would say "It was tight."(And you'll never look at deja vu the same way again...)

******
15 April 1999
8

The beginning is a little bit slow, but every minute of filming is necessary
in order to effectively build to a very strong climax.  The acting was by no
means superb, but it was very watchable, which is more than can be said for
some films out there!  The effects were amazing and the plot was just
excellent!  Scripting had a few minor problems, but the movie really wasn't
about the dialogue.  If you liked this, give their other movie, BOUND, a
try, too!

******
15 April 1999
10

It has to be the best sci-fi movie out there. Maybe even better then Star
Wars. "The Matrix" has to at least beat "Titantic" in the box office. There
is no movie out there that could outdo it. The plot and characters were
perfect. The plot is very complicated and to me unpredictable. When I went
to see this movie I thought,"well another predictable action movie without a
plot." But then afterwards I was so impressed that I was in awe of it for
over an hour. I couldn't believe it! Somebody actually made a movie that
literally made Star Wars look like a little kids movie.

******
15 April 1999
10

Incredible reality-bending effects, a Geiger-nightmare world and the
ongoing human struggle to convince ourselves we are not slaves to our own
creations, orchestrated to incredible industrial and drum and base and
dressed in vinyl trench coats and steel toed stomping boots......cyber-industrial-paranoia-from
hell.....I haven't had to scrape my jaw from the theatre floor like this
since Dark City.......ddddddaaaammmnnnnnnnn!!!!!And one  more thing....I am very happy that Mr.Reeves has finally been able
to break out of the Bill & Ted typecast....you go boy!!!!!!!

******
14 April 1999
10

I really didn't expect much from this film and was not prepared to be as
blown away as I was.The minds which created this story must be fascinating! It's one I'd like
to
watch again and examine with friends to catch all that I'm sure I missed
the
first time.Amazing camera work and the special effects combined to create a visually
stunning experience which left this viewer on the edge of her
seat.


******
14 April 1999
9

The first thing I want to say is : I think this movie shouldn't be even
compared or quoted as "good enough until Star Wars releases in May "
because
it shouldn't. This movie is able to stand on its own as a "techno science
fiction ". Star Wars in general is a entity of its own and anything to be
compared against it would be unfair.This movie has a great script , great characters , one of
the
best jaw dropping effects I have seen. Keanu Reeves played a much better
role then in Johnny "Moronic" but then again the movie was bad in the
first
place. Laurence Fishburne had a outstanding role ,and he  shines in this
movie (let alone his sunglasses). But my only problem is with Carrie-Anne
Moss's role as Trinity. Her character was the best out of the group in the
beginning of the film , but after she became Reeves side kick her role
diminish over the course of the movie.
This movie begs for a sequel and really it has to : because I want to know
what "Zion " looks like.If you love this movie after one showing see it again,
and I just hope it will look great on DVD.

******
14 April 1999
8

I had first seen the previews of The Matrix in the theatres and I have to
admit they intrigued me because of the stunning effects.  However I wasn't
going to spend ticket money on a film  with Keanu Reeves.  Then some
friends of mine
who I respect told me that it was actually worth the money and was a
really
good movie.With this in mind I went to see the movie and immediately noticed the
directors and writers (their brothers) were smart to keep Keanu's dialogue
to a minimum.  I also was even more stunned by the special effects.  The
lighting was very reminiscent of "The Crow" (the first) and "Dark City",
both movies noted for their effects.   Laurence Fishburne gives an
excellent
performance and the casting was done well.  However, Keanu Reeves as the
protagonist actually was a pretty good choice because he plays a very good
dark hero.  Though I would have loved to see Brandon Lee play the main
part.The Matrix was described to me as reminiscent of Plato's Allegory of the
Cave, and if anyone has read this cannon of philosophy it becomes clear
that
the movie is almost a direct modernization.  However, it seems that the
movie could have easily been 20-30 minutes longer.  About half the movie
takes place within the Matrix and the other half in the "real world".
But,the movie fails to add any depth to either of these two worlds.  Some
more time spent on analyzing how Keanu Reeve's character interacted within
the Matrix would have been very helpful and interesting.  Instead the
movie
begins with him already "feeling" something is wrong with the world around
him, but shows not a single reason why this would be true.  I would like
to
think the writer's did this to minimize Keanu's dialogue and role in the
movie.  Added to the thin development was the corny fight scenes.  The
actual strikes and blows were very well choreographed but there were some
very ridiculous posing which made most of them laughable.  If that was the
goal of the fight scenes (which I don't think it was) then I can't
understand why they were done that way.  The entire theatre couldn't help
but snicker seeing Keanu do Martial Arts pose seemingly for no reason
whatsoever.To sum up, I think the movie bought up some very interesting questions
about
reality and our perception of it.  However the two very interesting worlds
that were created were not developed enough to satisfy my interest in
either.  I came to the site and was appalled to see it ranked #20 on the
top
250 list because of these shortcomings.  I gave it a 6 out of 10 and would
recommend it to a friend as an entertaining action flick that would not
blow
them away.

******
14 April 1999
9

This film has planted a fever in my brain - was there a subliminal message
throbbing out of the screen telling us 'you must see this again'? I feel
like an invisible thread is luring me back to the cinema to immerse myself
again in this glorious fiction. Even though its premise is dystopic, the
action/fight/gravity defying sequences are truly exhilarating and may make
the unhinged among us think for a brief moment that maybe they can fly
too.I can't tell you how strange it was to watch the familiar buildings and
streets of Sydney (my home city) constructed as part of a computer
generated
illusion, and then to drive past many of the filming locations on the way
home. Disconcertingly dreamlike to say the least! Go see it - I promise
that
it will show you things you've never seen or maybe never dreamt before.


******
14 April 1999
10

I went to see this movie last week, but I just can't get it out of my
mind.
It was absolutely brilliant; one of the most original and well put
together
films ever made. But the bit I liked best about it was that it keeps you
thinking well after you see the movie. I couldn't give it anything less
than
a 10 and a high recommendation. 

******
14 April 1999
8

I enjoyed watching "The Matrix."  However, it's no "Blade Runner."  The
martial
arts sequences were pretty cool, especially the very first fight sequence,
which took me by surprise.  The costumes were cool, and some of the lines
were damn
funny, those which were very specific to the weird world of the
Matrix.What kept this film from being a real winner for me were the slow pacing
and
the large character and plot holes riddling the story.  The world of the
film
didn't seem to make any sense, and I question what goal our heroes are
actually
fighting for.Surprisingly, I thought Keanu Reeves did a fine job in his role.  He even
made
me laugh with him (as opposed to the usual "at him").So see the film if you want to see good use of gratuitous special effects
and
the first real look at a "virtual reality"-themed film.  But if you're
looking
for a mental twister, look elsewhere.  Some holes really bugged me during
the
film, and once I'd left the theater and started thinking about it, the
whole
thing crumbled.  Alas.


******
14 April 1999
10

For the first time in a long while a movie was made with thought.  A movie
that made you think, and having to see it twice to get the whole
picture.The special effects were outstanding, along with the cinematography and
direction.  This movie was made with care...a 2.5 hour sci fi, kung fu,
love
story, that had everything for everyone.I am so glad someone is making real movies out there again, not like
"Armageddon"...a movie for the "short attention span-mtv video edit
generation".My score a 10 out of 10. Awesome!

******
14 April 1999
10

Absolutely excellent special effects.  The story keeps you in the movie
and
makes you think to yourself that it could all really happen.  Great
movie.

******
14 April 1999
10

First I was going to watch Twin Dragon, but the theathre which played the
movie wasn't playing any movies and the time. And so I decide to watch The
Matrix, And I am very glad that I didn't see Twin Dragon, because Matrix
was so
awesome,and the fighting scene is just wicked. I saw the movie like 12
times, and I will never get tired of it.

******
13 April 1999
7

What do you get when you take the Terminator, Dark City, and Mortal Kombat
and throw it all together? The Matrix.  When I first saw the previews, I was
sure it was just another effects extravaganza with nothing behind it, but it
was actually a great "popcorn movie"; it was fun to watch.It contains plenty of surrealistic gunfights, kung-fu fights ("you're out of
bullets!" "so are you!" "how convenient! now we must fight!"), and trippy
special effects to keep anyone interested, while not taking itself too
seriously.  How _any_ film besides Star Wars can talk about an "oracle," and
"the one," and "dessssstiny" without making an audience crack up is amazing,
but this one pulls it off.Oh yeah, and the Episode One trailer is attached to the movie
:)Things _not_ to do while watching The Matrix:- DO NOT play "air guitars" whenever Keanu says something like     "whoa."
He's really not bad in this one.- DO NOT speak for Vader and say "it is your dessssstiny."         Fishburne
does fine on his own.- DO NOT count plot holes.- DO NOT complain that movies don't portray computers as they      actually
look like in Real Life.- DO NOT get tense.  You think this is a movie where the bad       guys win?
HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAA.- DO NOT count the number of movies The Matrix "borrows" from.     You'll be
talking throughout the movie.


******
13 April 1999
7

I have to wonder about the point of these here pico-reviews, since obviously
they are skewed towards the kind of people who loved the film enough to take
the trouble. Well, I didn't like it, and here's why.The profound matter of "what is reality?", supposedly the film's underlying
theme, is rather superficially treated. Don't expect your mind to be blown
unless the thought "reality is just the way we interpret electrical signals
in our brain" is bizarre and new to you.Keanu has been given the thumbs up for playing a dazed and confused
character so well - I kind of agree, except playing a dazed character is
neither interesting or challenging. The lead character in this film is dull
as dishwater, Hugo Weaving's Agent definitely steals the show. Fishburn was
quite cool, although the way his character was set up I was a bit
disappointed he was actually a tall black dude with sunglasses (exactly like
you'd expect) and not an old Vietnamese woman with arthritis, which would
really surprise you.However, my main issue is with the film's plot - it has plot holes so large
Hannibal could drive his army through them. The future portrayed is
mind-numbingly unoriginal, and the rationale for the existence of the Matrix
itself is simply laughable; it's just patently ridiculous. (I feel so
dirty.) The way in which the characters interact with "reality" and "the
Matrix" is necessary to drive the plot, which I might liken to a new volvo;
shiny and with computers in it, but still the same old boring car as they
made 10 or 20 years ago. This interaction is, alas, stupid and nonsensical.
Suspension of disbelief is easy to achieve in a movie with great acting or
plot, but here, I tried and failed.On the up side, the combat sequences were amusing, the effects were OK -
quite average for 1999, which is to say, pretty amazing. Weaving and his
cohorts were cool, and until you actually find out what is going on, the
plot is somewhat intriguing.This film is a Hollywood-made, Keanu Reeves-starring cyberpunk movie. You
get what you expect - as long as you haven't read the other reviews.
:) 

******
13 April 1999
10

Very cool story line.  Not being a religious person I was impressed by the
"Coming of the savior" aspect of the story.  The prophecy of the "Chosen
One" that would come to be born and would save all of mankind.This movie rocked! 

******
13 April 1999
10

A viewer looks for a good plot, good graphics, good acting, and overall
a good show.
Although 'The Matrix' does not entirely cover new ground, it gives it
audience a tremendous plot, explosive graphics, award winning acting, and
freakin' good show.
It also gives you something to think about after the
movie.
'The Matrix' asks us what we truly believe and what makes these beliefs
true. 'It' is truly everywhere and in everyone. 'The Matrix' is the question
that asks "how real is what we deem real". Only one person knows. And that
person is...YOU; you are your own CHOSEN ONE.   

******
13 April 1999
10

Let me just say, I don't care if you are a person who doesn't 
like Sci-Fi or Action or Cyberspace because everyone MUST see 
this movie.  Forget everything you have ever seen before.  When 
I walked out of this movie I felt like I had just seen the 
invention of "film".  It is probably my new favorite movie.Granted every movie has it's little flaws, but in this one, the 
flaws are so minute that it's hardly even noticeable.    You 
MUST see this movie.  If you don't see it, you will be missing 
out on a masterpiece.  Make sure you see it in the theater first 
because if you didn't, it would be like wanting to get on a 
roller coaster, but instead of going to Disneyland, you get in 
your car and drive around really fast.  In other words, the 
Theater is the best venue to see this film (if your city has an 
IMAX and it is showing there, even better).  


******
13 April 1999
10

This film is as visualy stunning as Dark City, Metropolis, and yes even the
best film ever made, 2001. While it may not be as good as those films in
other ways it is still a great film. Keanu Reeves finaly proves to us that
it is possible for him to act and the Wachoski brothers who directed the
film prove that they are definitely directors to watch.

******
13 April 1999
10

"The Matrix", I believe, will come to be a masterpiece in the genre of
science fiction/special effects films.  So often these types of films either
forget that they need a plot, or the plot becomes lost in the process of
showing eye popping visual effects.  "The Matrix" does not have this
problem.  It has a complicated plot that twists back on itself and is
interesting.
In addition the movie maintains an intensity that really kept me on the edge
of my seat.Lawrence Fishburne, Carrie Anne Moss and Keanu Reeves (yes he was good in
this movie) all give excellent performances.  The visual effects are
incredible and yet not overstated.The best part of the movie for me was the fact that I had no clue as to the
plot.  This is the best way to go into this movie.  It will add to the
intensity and keep you guessing for much of the movie.  So if someone tries
to tell you anything about the plot, tell them to stop.  It may spoil some
of the surprises that lay in store for you if you see this
movie.


******
13 April 1999
10

"The Matrix" is not only the greatest sci fi movie ever made, but THE
GREATEST MOVIE EVER MADE!!!  There was not one thing in this movie that I
didn't like.  It was the most mind blowing experience I've ever had at the
movies!  If you have not seen this film yet, please, SEE IT NOW!!!  You will
NOT be disappointed!  On a four star scale, "THE MATRIX" gets a
5! 

******
13 April 1999
10

Wow.  When I walked out of this movie I felt disoriented.  This movie is
amazing.  It really makes you think about reality.  And those fight scenes
would make John Woo jealous.  Although the story may have a couple weak
spots, it is barely noticeable.  I'm going to have to go back for a second
viewing just to get a full view of the plot.Keanu Reeves was good... not great, but he fit the part well.  Everyone else
did great, especially Laurance Fishbourne.The special effects are out of this world.  These have got to win some kind
of award.  Go to this movie if possible, and if you don't like it, go again
and actually WATCH the movie this time, cause it's great! 

******
13 April 1999
9

In a word, Wow. Even though I'd read the reviews from this site, I was still
apprehensive. Well, all for naught. From the acting to the imagery to the
action and the slow-mo shots, this movie is all that and a bag of chips. I
walked out with all those shots in my head, and thinking to myself when I
could get back to see it again. Can't wait for the DVD! 

******
12 April 1999
9

An intelligent action movie. Stylish and thought-provoking. If you go to
see
it for the special effects, you'll be intrigued by the premise. At times
it
feels a lot like The Terminator, but the plot is not really that similar.
However this film is also likely to become a cult classic too. Overall an
immensely satisfying cinema experience.

******
12 April 1999
10

The Matrix is one of the best movies ever made. It combines incredibly
involved and intriguing script with outstanding visual effects. The Matrix
makes you stop and think about your own life and questions that bother all
of us "what is real?" The martial arts scenes are probably the best ever
done by western actors--Bravo! Keanu Reeves (and I am not even a fan).
They
can be comparable only to Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan. I guarantee that it
will become one of your favorite movies

******
12 April 1999
9

The Matrix is an exciting movie with great special effects.  The premise
is
a good one, and for the most part was  achieved.  This movie could be
viewed
on a couple levels:  The action thrill ride, or on a more social
commentary
of society.  Either way you view this movie, the experience of watching it
is profound.

******
12 April 1999
10

With under two months until Star Wars and the unprecedented hype and
pageantry of what may be the biggest movie of all time, The Matrix has a
big
shadow to avoid.Yes, everyone knows the movie has great effects.  A sci-fi movie cannot
make
it today without them.  What most people may overlook from this movie,
amidst the stunning filming and some choice one liners, is that it may be
a
watermark in Hollywood.  I found the most intriguing aspect of the movie
was
the story.  It was intricate, thoughtful, and concise.  Some places it was
hard to understand what has happening, or more specifically, why it was
happening, but don't let it get you down.  It's all explained as you go.
This is a movie you HAVE to see at least twice.  It is just so much more
enjoyable to soak in the brilliance of a well written script.  It's
mystical
and technical.  It's retro and futuristic.  It's truly like nothing you've
seen before.  

******
12 April 1999
10

The movie was great.. You really need to follow the film closely..Don't get
up out of your sit for popcorn..You just might miss some of these Special
Effects that are incredibly believable. A well thought out film both special
effects and dialogue. Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne both deliver great
performances along with Carrie-Anne. Be careful, it could get you thinking
about were and what we live in know..
Is it Real or Is it False..Our surroundings.. Find out what the word
"Matrix" means to their world. Are you one of the Chosen?
Computer and Sci-Fi Fans - it's a Must to See Movie.

******
12 April 1999
10

With all the Star Wars hype, this movie may be overlooked. I feel that it
has an amazingly intricate plot, wonderful effects, and solid importance. I
left the theatre with a glowing feeling after seeing a great hero emerge
(Neo.) I never thought I would say that about Mr. Reeves in a film.This movie is amazing and well deserves its success.ET 

******
12 April 1999
10

It was a very good movie. At the beginning we understand nothing, like the
main character, and while the movie plays we begin to understand. It was so
good that I want to buy it.Go see it!!!

******
12 April 1999
10

"The Matrix" is, without a doubt, the greatest movie ever made.
Everything about this film is remarkable: the script, the acting, and, of
course, the special effects.  This movie has the most mind blowing visuals
that you have to see to believe.  They are simply breath taking.  The plot
of this film is unlike no other.  It's the most original movie ever made,
and also, the most thought provoking.  You will leave the theater wondering
if something like this could ever happen.  Or is already
happening....
Do not wait for this movie on video.  See it at the theater while you
can!!!  

******
12 April 1999
10

A SciFi / Psychological / Philosophical / Action thriller movie all in one!
DO NOT miss "The Matrix" in theaters. And, PLEASE, don't ruin it for
yourself by reading spoilers!The Matrix will blow you away, there is no question of
it.
So, do you want to know what the Matrix is?
You'll just have to see it for yourself. 

******
12 April 1999
10

This movie was excellent. Andy Wachowski and Larry Wachowski are two of the
greatest writers and directors I've seen in a long time. The shots were the
best, the special effects were trippy, and mind-blowing, and the writing was
intriguing and pure brilliance. Go see this movie. If you already have, go
again. 

******
11 April 1999
7

The Matrix is stunningly well executed via great direction and flair.  Not a
movie of great substance, although it does give you some food for thought
when you leave.  Definitely a perfect ten when it comes to the good old
Sci-Fi look and feel.  The Matrix (with its visuals and effects) shall do
for science fiction movies of the next millennium what Blade Runner and
Alien did for Sci-Fi of the '80's and 90's. 

******
11 April 1999
10

Very good film.  This films makes you think about your life the way it is
now.  Is it real or is it fantasy?  The special effects are great.  Good
comic relief scenes.  Also this movie has a very good plot line!!!  See
it.

******
11 April 1999
9

Ever wondered about your life? Wondered why you're here. Wondered what your
purpose was... wondered, what's the point? "The Matrix" sums it up in a
nutshell, a two and a half hour nutshell. Every possible question you could
ask derived from the movie is answered. The basis of the movie is
interesting, but it is how they pulled it off is what makes it INTENSE. A
suspenseful sci-fi for the open-minded. The ideas generated are as intense
and as cutting edge as the graphics. Not many films capture you beyond
special effects, but "Matrix" does and beyond. It's the graphics that hit
home the ideas. If this were attempted in earlier years the intensity
generated would have been minimalized. A fantastic performance by every
actor makes this a very believable and breathtaking window to a different
perspective of the world. It leaves you with an aftertaste of hope. You too
can defeat the system, but you can't think it... you have to "know"
it.

******
11 April 1999
10

As soon as I saw the ad for this film I began counting down the days until
its release. I also managed to catch a two second glance at the web address
on the ad. The page then proceeded to take up all my time up until the film
was released. The webpage was good in not giving away anything, and I highly
recommend the comics based on the Matrix universe, and comments can be
entered in the forum, which has degenerated into a chat session discussing
the movie...That was until I saw the movie - despite the fact that I saw it in a
slightly less than good cinema, even though I tried to get to a good one - I
was blown away, I knew the special effects would be good - but the
Wachowski-dubbed "bullet-time photography" (the slow motion bits - actually
a little more complicated than slo-mo) - was stunning. The storyline had me
hooked from the moment I read about it on the webpage. The only fault of the
movie, and I hate to say there was a fault, was the cliché-only-way-to-save-the-hero,
which I think could have been replaced with something a lot more
enlightening and inventive. Otherwise I wanted to be part of the Matrix. I
wanted to be in the world, understand the code, _manipulate_ the code.
Superb - I can't wait for the sequel (obviously there will be one). I hope
someone makes an rpg fast.Casting was amazing - especially Lawrence Fishburne (I want his shades!!),
he fits the role right down to his voice - I can't think of a better person to
play the role of Morpheus. Keanu Reeves proves himself to be a good actor
after all, doing a really good job of looking confused - then realising what
is going on around him. All the minor actors are superb, fitting their roles
snugly.Anyway - for anyone who is going to watch this movie - go into it prepared
to think fast - to keep up with the storyline.... if you don't - the agents
will be able to move faster. which will probably result in your dislike of
the film and consequent bad reviews to your friends.10/10/10.

******
11 April 1999
10

This movie kicks backside. I love this movie. Previously my favorite movie
of the 90's was Dark City, but I enjoyed The Matrix alot more than DC. The
special effects are fantastic, and it will be interesting to see how they
line up against Star Wars  special effects. And an Aussie gets to play a
big
role in the movie!

******
11 April 1999
10

When I saw this movie, the words HOLY COW came to mind.  The mind
blowing
action, the intense ideas thrown at you, and the sets aren't to shabby
either.  This is a must see for everyone that has eyes to see it, and even
then, have someone with eyes explain what is going on!  This is one of the
best movies (and well acted) of Keanu Reeves since his run-in with a bus.
And I don't think I've ever seen Laurence Fishburne this good.  I have
never
seen the beautiful Carrie-Anne Moss either until this, but she be fine by
me.
With an exciting cast of those above and a plethora of others, this is
a
movie that you should see even if you have to take off of school or work.
See it more then once actually, I have (twice in three days actually).
And
when it comes out, I recommend that you buy it on laserdisk or DVD,
because
you will wear down the tape in a matter of days.

******
11 April 1999
10

Besides The Matrix, I haven't seen a movie that does a good job of "waking
you up".  The Matrix offers an answer in the form of an analogy to the
question:  Is there more to this life than the eye can see?  Besides being
dazzled by special fx and thrilled by funky-tune slow-motion action, I was
challenged by being asked where I stood on this planet.  Am I looking for
the truth and fighting to inform others about it, or am I indulging myself
and pretending that there may be nothing more than what I've been told.
This movie explores many things:  Belief, fate, faith, hope, fear, power,
etc.  It's all good stuff.  All these things were sort of brought together
and, at least for me were, one by one, made sense of.


******
11 April 1999
8

Without a doubt, the presentation of this film with its myriad of
computerized special effects is spectacular.
It's a feast for the eye. A fantastic journey -- though mostly in tones of
dark colors -- for the very computer literate.
It works very well as a comic book style storytelling in the company of
Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving and Joe
Pantoliano. From the pen and direction of the Wachowski brothers, Andy and
Larry (sharply delivered the previous intriguing "Bound" with Jennifer
Tilly, Gina Gershon and Joe Pantoliano.) "The Matrix" is imaginative. It's
fantasy, yet the undertones can be real.We've had films with similar storyline, Terry Gilliam has two prominent
ones: "Brazil" 1985 and "12 Monkeys" 1995 -- more concentrated on the plot
and message vs. dazzling computerized effects, hence more time in deeper
delivery of the acting performances along with the story intrigue. Also
comes to mind is Alex Proyas' "Dark City" 1998, especially when we see the
long black trench coats! The virtual reality aspect has traces of "Star
Trek" (the out of body simultaneous existence, the beaming back to the
ship), and of course, "Star Wars" (fighting off the bugs/viruses from the
ship's steering control platform).The chase scenes, action-explosive scenes, and martial art scenes we've
seen/experienced these before. A lot of other film tracks spring to mind:
Barry Sonnenfeld's "Men In Black" 1997 (chases and alien monsters);
Stephen
Norrington's "Blade" 1998 (cool martial art movements); John Badham's
"Blue
Thunder" 1983 (helicopter in action); John McTiernan's "Die Hard" 1988
(the
shattering glass by non-stop flying bullets); and John Woo's trademark
rain
of bullet ballet styles. The computer-intensive plot has a trace of the
situation in "Mercury Rising" 1998 with Bruce Willis; reminders of the
insightful paranoiac B/W independent film of Darren Aronofsky's "Pi" 1998;
yes, Keanu in "Johnny Mnemonic" 1995 -- Is this part 2? Keanu's character
here is a human with doubts and feelings of his own vs. a go-between
android
type. (Ah, "Android" 1982, directed by Aaron Lipstadt is an interesting
sci-fi piece with Klaus Kinski as an avid scientist, and Don Opper who
plays
Max 404 co-wrote the screenplay.)There are steady quiet moments/brief scenes for pause and emotional exchanges, especially the meeting with Oracle, seemingly a surreal scene yet so down-to-earth with human warmth -- for a moment I felt we're in a calm reality with no hurriedness or impending threat. There's also the scene when Morpheus explains to Neo What Is the Matrix -- come to think of it, kinda have tones of George Lucas' 1970 classic "THX 1138" bland background -- esoterically surreal? Jean-Luc Godard's "Alphaville" 1965 is a cool French sci-fi fantasy in B/W with no particular special effects but great story that is familiar.The idea of the bureaucratic society in The Matrix reminds me of John Carpenter's "They Live" 1988.By the way, Hugo Weaving has worn dark
shades before in another movie: Jocelyn Moorehouse's "Proof" 1991 -- he
portrayed a blind photographer (no kidding) with Russell Crowe (who was
the
robotic nightmare SID 6.7 in "Virtuosity" 1995 opposite Denzel
Washington.)Performances are fine all round: Laurence Fishburne always dependable
delivery, Hugo Weaving's Agent Smith is as good as it gets, Carrie-Anne
Moss
is cool moves, and Keanu, his was a decent delivery -- can't ask for more,
his presence IS the center of The Matrix. Liquefaction chrome effect is
maximized manifold since its introduction in James Cameron's "The Abyss"
1989. All in all, the Wachowski brothers and co. delivered "The Matrix"
successfully as an opening weekend box office #1 hit. Warner Brothers
should
be all smiles!Keanu did a pretty good job in Taylor Hackford's "The Devil's Advocate"
1997, opposite Al Pacino and Charlize Theron. To see him in a more
romantic
role and hear him sing with Anthony Quinn, try ("Like Water for Chocolate"
1993 director) Alfonso Arau's "A Walk in the Clouds" 1995.


******
11 April 1999
9

Although the first hour was rather boring, the following hour of the movie
was action packed, it makes up for all the action (or lack of) in the
first
part. This is a top movie. Great special effects, and great cast, make
this
movie a must see.Great if you love Sci-Fi movies, I do. 10/10 from me.

******
11 April 1999
9

This movie left me wanting so much more from the script and the rest of
the
plot. That and Keanu Reeves seriously needs to spend more time with his
band. Don't get me wrong, the kung fu sequences were spectacular, and the
special effects were, to this day, untouched.
I loved this movie because of the special effects and the concept. I
believe it could have been presented better through the: script, dialogue,
and choice of leading man.
(NOTE: Check out the sound track. It's very well done and fits the movie
quite well.)

******
11 April 1999
10

"The Matrix", asks the question "What is real?". More than that, though,
it
asks "Would you rather live in a comfortable lie or a harsh truth?". This
is
a great movie with an intriguing plot. The special effects combined with
the
characters/cast provide an action-packed movie that has something for
everyone. However, some characters are introduced as important, but are
not
fully developed by the end of the movie, leaving you saying "What
about...?". For example, the character Switch a very intriguing character
for what we saw of her, but her character was not fully explored. Also,
the
ending would have been better if it had gone a little bit further into the
story than it did. It almost ends too soon, without fully satisfying the
audiences expectations. All in all it was an excellent movie. I recommend
it
to anyone who's stomach can handle the gory scenes.

******
11 April 1999
10

It is a 10!   This movie touches on many issues that are predominant the
world over.  With amazing special effects and a sound track that still has
me reeling this film is top quality.  The costumes were especially well
done
and the characters had a sence of realism to them that is not commonly
found
in films today.   Small things hidden in the movie make return visits even
more entertaining as the viewer catches something new each visit.   On my
list of movies The Matrix takes a close second to Braveheart.   A must
see.

******
11 April 1999
9

I went into this movie expecting "good," and I was pleasantly surprised to
find that it was excellent!  Invigorating scenes left me breathless with
the
sleek set and costume design, flawless choreography, and deliciously
bad-a**
feel to the whole film.The story itself is wonderfully complex and there are very few loose ends
in
the background and plot, which are usually a big problem in sci-fi/action
movies.  The philosophy behind the story is well-expressed by Morpheus and
Trinity, and indeed fits nicely with the big picture.  In fact, there are
several parallels between the story and religious faith, but that is a
whole
other can of worms.Keanu Reeves is a stroke of casting genius as the rumpled,
fly-by-the-seat-of his-pants Neo, whose true purpose, identity, and
talents
are yet undiscovered until he is tapped by the Resistance.  He has only
recently begun to earn some of my respect with an excellent performance in
Devil's Advocate, and now the Matrix.  However, I am still rather scarred
from his "Dracula" farce.  Carrie-Anne Moss does quite well in this role;
a
nice change from her "Models, Inc" days, and a terrific showcase of her
chiseled features.  Laurence Fishburne is perfect as the omniscient,
eloquent and always-composed leader, Morpheus.Several instances of subtle comic relief were appreciated--the activated
sprinklers that drenched the agents as well as Keanu's Bruce Lee tribute
in
his fight with eerily articulate, 10-words-per-minute agent.Storyboards were put to good use, and the action was easy to follow
throughout the movie, even with all the trans-dimensional activity going
on.
Lighting in every shot was exceptional, conveying a sterile feel about the
whole environment. Sound design was also exceptional; it put the audience
amid
all the action on camera.  The soundtrack fits perfectly with the
film--the
silver bow on a beautiful package.Highly recommended, but not for the faint of heart. A terrific show with
an
intriguing and insightful plot.  This film gives you a lot to chew on well
after you've seen it.


******
11 April 1999
9

Silly me, drinking all that coke before The Matrix--thinking I could just
dash out to the john during a lull in the film.  Surprise . . .the lull
never happens!  I was glued to the screen , mesmerized for over two
hours--not daring to leave for fear I'd miss the twists and turns of this
thought-provoking plot.  At the end I can honestly say, I've never been
more
impressed with a sci-fi flix and my bladder has never been
fuller.

******
11 April 1999
10

This film is a must see for any science fiction aficionado.  It has
amazing
special effects, good acting, philosophy, and a fast-paced, full plot that
keeps you on the edge of your seat for the full two and a half hours.A must see for ANY William Gibson/Bruce Sterling fan....

******
11 April 1999
10

Lots of comments of Matrix compare to many of the best sci-fi films
around.
Can I now compare it to many of the martial arts films I have seen. Lots
of
Bruce Lee / Jet Li influences were present in the main "training sequence"
with tongue placed firmly in cheek. Taking into account that this is the
first full on fight film that I have seen K.R. do, he didn't do too bad
for
a beginner. The choreography was excellent and helped by surprisingly few
special effects. I have not enjoyed a film this much for a long time, but
I
think Star Wars Eps. 1 will superceed this - just.

******
11 April 1999
10

A movie that pays tribute to many of the great sci-fi movies of the past
while charting its own territory.  Great, great action sequences, superb
cinematography, well realized concept.  First half hour a little slow but
after that the movie pulls you in and just keeps building.  Please let the
Academy nominate a sci-fi movie for once and give full credit to the
creative visuals in this film.  Critics usually have trouble "getting"
sci-fi movies: this movie's visuals deserve the chance to put an end to
the
embarrassing lack of critical appreciation of this genre.


******
11 April 1999
10

I just have to comment on my favorite movie ever, in my opinion anyways. All
the good comments about the films special effects and story have already
been spoken for, so I'll just agree with that and have no need to add
further on that. I also really enjoyed the directing of the movie by those
Wachowski brothers. The way the soundtrack and film
goes together, it's done so well, that sometimes you don't notice the sound,
but its keeping you with the scene so well. I don't know if what I said
makes sense, I just woke up and I'm not very alive right now. But The Matrix
kicks A$$ in my book, i've seen it 6 times now in the past week, i'll make 8
today. And i don't ever see movies in this frequency.

******
11 April 1999
9

 
The Matrix rocks!  It is the best movie I have seen in years.  It is not
perfect, but it is one of those movies, like Braveheart and Titanic, that
put you on the edge of your seat and make you sweat.  Also like Titanic and
Braveheart, The Matrix is not very original (ex. Braveheart is a rip-off of
Spartacus), but what it does, it does well, and doesn't pretend to be smart.
It just is a cool movie!  I've seen it twice and can't wait to get it on
DVD! 

******
11 April 1999
9

I am a self proclaimed hater of movie.  Especially the action Sci-Fi genre.
I paid my money expecting to hate The Matrix.  On the contrary, I loved it.
Brilliantly directed and surprisingly well acted, even Keanu Reeves, the
usual King of Monotone, was refreshing and good.  I am planning on seeing
this movie again.  soon.


******
11 April 1999
8

The Matrix:  8 out of 10"The Matrix" raises the special effects bar yet another notch, with
stunning high-speed camerawork, Gap-commercial rotation-freeze frame, blur
motion effects, and loads of computer-generated effects that amazed me.  I
have not seen such a redefinition of the "possible" using computer effects
since I first saw "Terminator 2" and "Jurassic Park".  Because of that
alone, this movie will make a lot of money.The movie most closely follows in the dark, cyberpunk tradition of "Blade
Runner", but the plot is essentially the Christ story retold with guns,
leather, and sci-fi monsters.Keanu Reeves plays Neo (the Christ figure), who is brought into the true
"Real World" by Lawrence Fishburne, who plays Morpheus, the leader of a band
of rebels from the human city of Zion, fighting the forces of the Matrix, a
computer program that has run rampant and taken over the real world.  > 
I predict this movie will be one of top at the box office in 1999 -- even
considering "Star Wars, Episode I" will soon follow and suck up the repeat
viewer market.The film combines karate, anime, armed-to-the-teeth, dressed-in-black
cyberpunk with a thought-provoking storyline about what is "reality" and
what is "computer generated dreamworld".  It reminded me also of "The
Lawnmower Man", with the Agents as guardians of the the heart of the
computers, and Keanu as the hacker who breaks their security.The story does have holes here and there, especially in explanations about
the machines harvesting humanity, and why a kiss of love can overcome death,
but the action is so rapid-fire and stunningly rendered, it does not ruin
the film.The actors all do well, considering the real top billing goes to the
special effects.  I thought Fishburne, Moss, and Agent Smith were most
compelling, with Keanu playing well but with no surprises.The movie IS "eye candy", but that is not a bad thing.  It will be
wonderful to compare the "The Matrix" to "Star Wars, Episode
I".Overall:  Above-average.  Redefines the effects bar.
Recommended.

******
11 April 1999
8

The Matrix is essentially a revised version of Dark City, with the noirish
elements replaced by cyberpunk elements and the brooding suspense replaced
by furious action. And, of course, with Kiefer Sutherland's overacting
replaced by Keanu Reeves' underacting.The actors do solid jobs, but the film's real strength lies not with its
(cardboard) characters, its (silly) plot, or its (derivative) ideas, but
with its exceptionally well-executed action sequences, nicely enhanced by
some impressive but not overdone special effects. It's not a movie to make
you think, but if you're in the mood for some good, exciting action, The
Matrix ought not to disappoint you. Turn off the cerebrum and rev up that
adrenal cortex, and you'll do fine. 

******
11 April 1999
10

Wow.  This is definitely my new all-time favorite film.  It's the fantasy of
"The Never-Ending Story" mixed with the techno-thrills aspects of "Hackers,"
the hair-raising science-fiction qualities of "2001: A Space Odyssey" that
made us really made us wonder whether computers could be our evolutionary
successors, the special effects that made "Independence Day" and "Star Wars"
so intriguing, the combat that leaves us in awe of people like Jackie Chan,
the dark elements of "The Crow," and Lawrence Fishburne's sheer talent of
being the ultimate "badass."  As others have said, this is a movie that
needs to be seen at least twice to appreciate not only the immediately
apparent qualities, but also the inherent complexities, hints, and
foreshadowing that were all missed the first time as you were trying to
figure things out.   Thought-provoking, indeed.  "Episode I" better be at
least this good. 

******
11 April 1999
10

Not many films have impressed me lately, but this one really did. It was the
best film so far this year. However, I do believe star wars - the phantom
menace will beat it when it gets out. Meanwhile, I think I'm going to go
watch this movie again. God it was good.

******
11 April 1999
9

The Matrix is enjoyable to watch and possibly even worth the eight bucks,
but the concept is so far-fetched that it falls short of being as thought
provoking as it tries to be. They want you to walk out of the theater with
the Oliver Stone type feeling of "It's a conspiracy, man!" but it doesn't
exactly work. The makers of the movie could have taken an example from Men
in Black, in which the concept of the movie explained some weird stuff that
is in our world so that it would make sense, but The Matrix just introduces
even weirder new stuff. 

******
11 April 1999
9

The Matrix is a sci-fi pulp fiction oozing cool styles. People with limited
imagination and tastes may prevent themselves from thoroughly enjoying the
film. Elements of the plot are derivative from a LOT of previous works (Dark
City, Blade Runner, Alice in Wonderland, religions (esp., Christian and
Buddhist) and etc.). However, they are combined and executed with finesse
and originality. Style-wise, it reminds me of Kubrick's' "A Clock Work
Orange" and Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction". Keanu Reeves is a best fit for the
role, where explicit emotional acting is NOT required. Certain premises in
the plot may not be scientifically convincing, but they are irrelevant. The
matrix PROVOKES your imagination while overwhelms you with stunning visual
effects (CG and camera works). I expect it to be a huge box office success.
A solid 9 out of 10. Go see it on a big screen in a modern cinema. A
definite DVD collector's item.Open your mind.

******
10 April 1999
9

Though the plot was vaguely reminiscent of other recent sci-fi movies,
overall the movie was excellent.  Keanu Reeves delivered a strong
performance, and the supporting cast was great as well.  Even if it wasn't
for all these things, the movie would be worth seeing just for the special
effects alone.  This is a movie you truly need to see on the big screen to
appreciate.  And as a bonus, it also has the Star Wars trailer :)  For all
these reasons, The Matrix is a movie I strongly recommend. 

******
10 April 1999
9

It has been a while since I've seen a movie that left me unable to decide
whether I liked it or not for as long as it took me to decide on The Matrix.
Fully one hour after the movie was out, I still couldn't even think to
wonder if I liked it. The rush, however, finally subsided, and I realised
that it was one of the top movies I've seen in recent years.Keanu Reeves plays his typical role, but for once, it doesn't detract from
the overarching brilliance of the screenwriting and directing. His character
is surprisingly likable.
Laurence Fishburne absolutely kicks it as Morpheus, the one who has been
prophesied by the Oracle to find The One. He is an excellent teacher for Neo
in all aspects: personality, belief, etc.
Mad props to the Wachowski brothers on a job well done.

******
10 April 1999
8

The visual style is terrific, and the story sucks you in well enough if you
can get around the (under-exposed) primary premise. The mythic allusion and
religious allegory is all-just-sort-of-OK. No one is going to emerge from
this movie with a much deeper view of life or anything.It's hard to root for Keanu Reeves, whose choppy pace can interrupt any good
story for me, but it's undeniable that he pulls this one off. Everyone who
usually holds their nose and steers clear of a project because he's in it,
go ahead and go.Personally, I wasn't too thrilled with the dialogue or the other
performances, and the soundtrack did most definitely suck. But as eye-candy
this ranks high. Find the biggest screen near you.

******
10 April 1999
10

Since many people have not taken an in depth course in philosophy I
understand why so many people believe this movie's ideas were taken from
other movies. In actuality this movie's philosophical aspects were rooted in
the skeptical ideas created by John Locke and Rene Descartes 300 years ago.
The questions of reality and what is true have been around hundreds of
years due to these intelligent minds.  I am glad that there are writers out
there today that do not underestimate the intelligence of their audience. I
am happy that I got a chance to see this fast paced action film that broke
the mold of stereotypical action pictures through its intellectual
prowess!

******
10 April 1999
10

What the Matrix is I cannot tell.. but what I can tell you
is
that this movie is truly amazing. Brilliant actors, spectacular
effects and a great story to go with that. The movie is so smart and well
done it will hook you from the very beginning and make you want to watch
it
over and over again. Don't miss out this one or you'll miss something I
assure you.. Classic already?

******
10 April 1999
10

Wow.  The Matrix does use the same standard plot of most sci/fi films of
the
past, but the way it's carried out is exceptional.
Camera angles are outstanding.  Inredible combination of kick-a** martial
arts with plenty of mini-guns as well.  Effects are simply amazing.  Even
the soundtrack rocks.  Nobody should see this film less than 3
times!

******
10 April 1999
8

A combination of "arcade-style" action fighting, freaky looking special
effects and a mild topping of Sci-Fi plot equals around two hours of
entertainment.Trenchcoat and Sunglass manufacturers have got to be happy.Also, I was proud to see Sydney's buildings can get shot up as good as the
next city's.One criticism though, I was disappointed with the ending.

******
10 April 1999
8

If you have to see two movies this year ('99), this would certainly be one
of them (the other, would be that small George Lucas project).
The Matrix is a high tech, gritty sci-fi thrill-ride of what could be
reality. Great fight scenes, incredible special FX (look for the awesome
"bullet dodging scene"), great performances from Reeves, Fishburne and Moss
and what has to be the greatest Hong Kong cinema-inspired shootout EVER make
The Matrix one of my all-time favorite films.
However, there are some faults, such as the flimsy plot (the background
story is excellent, and the following CGI vision, is well, scary, however),
just average script, "tacked on" romance, Weaving's "not too bad"-bad guy,
and the tackiness of Sydney's skyline (a city with more skyscrapers would've
been awesome, but too dangerous for the shot).
But these faults are minor, and don't detract too much from the film that is
THE MATRIX. Watch it.
NOW. 

******
10 April 1999
10

Simply put...one of the best Sci-fi movies ever.  Tight plot, well acted,
great special effects and thought provoking.
Movies like this don't come along too often.  Thoroughly enjoyable!  Watch
it, no, savor it again and again! 

******
10 April 1999
7

I went to see the Matrix thinking it would be a cool science fiction film,
with lots of interesting twists. It turned out to be mostly an action film
with some nice fight scenes, more along the lines of a Chuck Norris or
Jackie Chan film. I am a big science fiction fan, and I was a little
disappointed that the film wasn't more interesting, but I enjoyed it
anyway.Keanu Reeves looked good as always, but didn't achieve any kind of epiphany
or express much human emotion (also as usual, unfortunately.) I would really
like to see him increase his emotional range and expressiveness. Without it,
he's just too 2D. 


******
10 April 1999
10

"Follow the white rabbit."  A notorious computer hacker receives a
mysterious message on his computer.  His decision to further investigate the
source and meaning of this message would irrevocably change his life
forever.This fast paced and rather complex plot is entertaining on many levels.
While most viewers will be content with just the stunning visual effects and
unbelievable martial arts sequences, others will enjoy the clever references
to Lewis Carroll and Douglas Hofstadter.Unusual camera angles combined with a viewpoint that is rarely stationary
make this film a visual roller coaster ride.  The plot is equally fast and
filled with turns and twists to keep most viewers on their
toes.While most eyes are on Keanu Reeves, the sleeper of this film is Lawrence
Fishburne.  His compelling performance as the enigmatic Morpheus is
outstanding.  He plays it so well that the viewer is not sure if Morpheus is
a good guy or a bad guy, a Zen master or a blind faith fool.  Or just maybe,
just maybe, all of the above.  His performance is worth serious
consideration.The film, by tackling the sacred cows of philosophy and offering an
unconventional scenario, will stimulate and amuse most viewers yet may
offend or upset others.  Take the scene where a little boy, dressed as a Far
Eastern monk, bends a spoon by just looking at it and explains, "the spoon
does not exist."  While this works within the context of the film, it may
offend those who take their Far Eastern philosophy seriously.In the end, the film forces the viewer to ask if one would accept a
horrifying, uncomfortable and disgusting truth over a pleasing, comfortable
and attractive lie.  Think before answering too quickly on this
one. 

******
10 April 1999
10

This movie totally blew me away.  As a big fan of Sci-Fi, action, and
martial arts I was totally stunned to see such an excellent composition of
these three styles in the one movie and done so well.  Add the excellent
storyline to this and you've got an absolute winner.  The makers of this
movie drew from influences such as John Woo and Ridley Scott - two of my
favourite directors.  The excellent use of slow motion added immensely to
the feel of the action and the suspense, and the digital effects were used
to the perfect level of "augment" the story, not "overcome" the
story.My new favourite cult flick! 


******
10 April 1999
7

I have never been so upset at myself for going to see a movie.  While the
movie had great effects, the story was horrible.  Sometimes, the plot was so
intolerable that I wanted to go to the bathroom just to get away from the
movie.  The only reason I stayed was to see if the ending would at least
have been decent.  *BZZZT*  Wrong!  It was the most contrived bit of malarky
I've ever seen.  Did I forget to mention that the acting was god awful.  A
word to the wise:  Only see this movie if you hate yourself.

******
10 April 1999
10

The Matrix is by far the best science fiction movie I have ever seen. I
usually don't like them, but this movie was the best. The graphics were
great, the soundtrack rocks (literally), and anyone who hasn't seen it,
should. 

******
10 April 1999
7

Immediately upon seeing the first trailer for the movie, I thought that they
were showing us all of the cool parts, and that the "No one can be told what
the Matrix is, They must see it for themselves" line was just another ploy
to get you into the theatres.I never would have thought how right I was.While the movie was ambitious, truly, truly ambitious in what it wanted to
say, and with what it attempted in scope in action and plot. Ultimately it
fell flat. The action scenes were played out (can you say Jackie Chan?), the
SFX are tired and old (c'mon now, if GAP is doing something, it is
apparently a fad and no good), the plot was tired after Dark City, and the
acting was truly terrible. The only one to pull off a decent job was -gasp-
Keanu Reeves.And this isn't going to be a popular opinion. I was in the theatre and in
the car with my buddies after the movie. The audience ate this movie up...I
just can't figure out why...

******
10 April 1999
10

Okay - This is for all who thought that Keanu could only do cheesy
cyber-punk flicks....:
IN YOUR FACE!!!!The Matrix has set the standard for high, kenetic energy action flicks of
recent years...if not longer.  The special effects are......*thinks*.....I'm
not gonna even try to name what the special effects are like.  I guess the
closest that I could to is - New.  Amazing!!!Sure, I was going to the show with some REALLY high expectations -- What I
got exceeded these expectation four times over!The plot:  Well, I found it a little bit rough to get in to - the beginning
of the movie has you searching for a meaning - "What is going on" you ask
yourself.  But, as you quickly find out, is that this ONE question is what
propels the story the majority of the time. It's okay if you don't get it
at first - neither does the main character.  As the story progresses, so
does your knowledge of the plot...and "what the MATRIX is".  It's a bit hard
to describe - but then so is the effects that accompany
it.The effects :  Well, I had NO idea....  I am a GREAT fan of John Woo and all
of his masterpeices.  The effects of this movie is like taking Woo's fairly
recent "FACE/OFF" - the "super high octane" gun fight scenese, and then add
about five - ten more minutes to them.  Also add in a HEALTHY dosage of
new effects and great (suspended cable) work and Whammo - you have one of
the coolest fight scene movies ever to be viewed by the movie
goer!!!Well...I guess I better stop drooing now....[ I think I'm gonna go see it
again!!!  Maybe tomaro??? YES!!!]10/10 -- MUST SEE.  (PERIOD)...

******
10 April 1999
7

'The Matrix' is a top notch action flick.  As one of the
few
fans of Keanu's acting abilities, his presence was not cause 
for alarm.  Obviously the special effects were outstanding,
but the story line was very confusing.  Using humans as 'energy' sources is
a great premise but they didn't expand upon this
theme.  "Bound" had a much stronger script and since the brothers did both
films, they shouldn't have counted on the
action and f/x to carry the day.   Otherwise, it's a solid
film.


******
10 April 1999
8

The only thing new here is a few effects, and something resembling acting
from Keanu.  Prince & the Pauper meets Brazil meets Vogue magazine.  old old
old.  Go see something else.As far as the story goes, it's both over-written and underwritten.  OVER
meaning it tries way, way too hard (many in the audience were laughing).
UNDER meaning there are holes you could drive a truck through.

******
10 April 1999
9

I'm amazed that I enjoyed this film as much as I did. I didn't really care
for the Wachowski brothers' last film, Bound (but to be fair, it seems
that
everyone else loved it), and I'm not a massive Keanu fan, but together
they've managed to put together one of the most entertaining films I've
seen
this year. The action scenes are in a class all of their own (John Woo
should take notes... none of his American films have been nearly this well
done). Carrie-Anne Moss and Laurence Fishburne deliver excellent
performances, and Keanu isn't half bad himself... all the martial-arts
training they took before filming really shows. After the first scene
ended
(which is absolutely breathtaking), the theater I watched The Matrix in
erupted into spontaneous applause. And Hugo Weaving is perfectly cast as
the
genuinely creepy antagonist.

******
10 April 1999
9

Wow...I haven't seen a movie this good in a long time.  While not entirely
plausible and with a few plot and character shortcomings, I was more
"into"
this movie while watching it than I have been for quite some time.
Excellent cinematography and special effects with a decent story line and
beautiful settings and clothing.  A real "cyber"-ish movie that keeps the
plot moving sufficiently.  Definitely worth seeing, I'll be seeing it
again.

******
9 April 1999
9

The great trailer for this one got me there, and it didn't disappoint. Eye
candy at its finest. If you're thinking of waiting for this one on
video...don't. It really should be seen in the theatre. In fact, I hope that
it is re-released someday just to have the experience again. But most likely
it will change how films are made and other great "matrix" like movies will
come along. Great effects, great soundtrack, great everything. It's not your
father's Oldsmoblie.Don't be too hard on Keanu...he was born to play this role.
Would have given it a 10 but not for that goofy ending.

******
9 April 1999
10

When I left the theater, I was shocked.  I could not believe the effects,
the fight scenes, and the plot that were involved with the Matrix.  It was
simply an awesome movie.  Any movie fan must see this movie.  It will
quickly become a classic!

******
9 April 1999
8

The Matrix is visually stunning (not just the FX, but also wonderful
direction and camerawork and superb fight choreography) but should appeal
only to hard core SF fans.  It has familiar plot elements taken from TRON,
Terminator 2 and several other SF stories, but it is so innovative in its
visuals you don't mind (in fact, the story needs to be familiar to make
sense of it).  Keanu is at his best looking slack-jawed and going, "Whoa!"
It lacks the pace of T-2, but the ending is dynamite (literally). 

******
9 April 1999
9

If you see only one movie this year, see "Phantom Menace". If you see two
movies this year, see "The Matrix". It really was way above my initial expectations. 
Intelligent, captivating, intriguing, mysterious...
the way sci-fi should be.The special effects were cool, but they pale in comparison
to the brilliant plot and script. My only minor complaint... fighting scenes looked too fake.
None
of them seem to put much force into their punches & kicks.I'll give this one a 9.

******
9 April 1999
10

What can I say? It was GREAT. I absolutely loved it. And make no mistakes,
I'm not much of a Keanu Reeves fan. This is how the story goes - nothing
is
what it seems. It sounded all so complicated at first. I'm used to sci-fi
and I love twists but this was totally different. The most amazing part of
it all is that the movie was actually easy to understand and clear in
meaning. And the special effects.... well, I can't TELL you about it but
you'll see. It's awesome! As I said before, I wish there were some elegant
and sophisticated way of saying 'wow'. I'll be using them all
now.Oh, and the fact that it was filmed in my town didn't hurt either. 'Hey,
isn't that where Jenny's dad works?' and 'look, it's Martin place' and
'hey,
that's Centre Point' and 'I swear that guy looks like my chemistry teacher
from year 11!!!!' and so on.I have only one thing to say - GO AND SEE IT! I give it
10/10.

******
9 April 1999
9

I loved the matrix. It had a solid story, which is rare in most
contemporary
Sci-Fi, tons of eye-candy, and exhilarating action sequences. There are
holes in the story, and I think the directors could have stretched our
imagination a little further. But any holes that you can find in the plot
are easily made up for by the films style and and over-all feel.


******
9 April 1999
10

The Matrix is the Best sci-fi movie I have ever seen. The special effects
in
this are so cool you won't ever see anything better. Keanu Reeves and
Laurence Fishburne in their best performances yet. The one bad thing is
that
most of the action is seen on TV. The plot and action are the most coolest
thing seen.

******
9 April 1999
10

The movie is dark. Literally and figuratively. The acting is ok
considering that there's a lot of relatively unknown talent. The action
scenes are superb and the recent trend of getting Hong Kong based people
to
do slow motion action (remember Face/Off)  is exploited to the hilt. Some
of
the concepts are original although the dismal attitude towards the future
is
something that is being repeated everywhere. Some of the the ideas will
probably be true in the next few years, however
their impact may be different.
I saw Laurence Fishburne after a long time and he gives by far the best
performance. Keanu Reeves looks more convincing than he was in Johnny
Mnemonic. The others are tolerable because the special effects take over
the
rest of the movie.
If you are looking to see a movie this weekend, go see
it.

******
9 April 1999
10

All right, let's get one thing straight. Anytime a movie comes out that
gets
most of its attention from its special effects, people will start
complaining, "Oh, they did great with the effects, but the story will
probably be lame(Twister, for example.) But The Matrix had one of the most
original and compelling stories of all time. The Special
FX were wonderful and will set a new standard on how to create good FX.
The
normally terrible actor, Keanu Reeves, pulls off a good performance for
once, and Laurence Fishburne is good as always. This movie was perfect and
deserves a perfect 10.

******
9 April 1999
9

This is one of the best movies I have seen in a long while. The cast is
great, Keanu Reeves and Carrie-Anne Moss both give a superb performance,
and
Hugo Weaving is very menacing as Agent Smith. The story/plot was a tiny
bit
hard to follow at times, but not impossible to understand. Excellent and
phenomenal special effects... simply, a MUST see.

******
9 April 1999
10

We usually judge media by its presentation... this movie goes beyond
presentation to manipulate the viewers perception.  Many movies do that to
some extent (usually via the soundtrack), but this film takes the
manipulation of perception to new heights.  Its almost a "ride" more than
a
movie.For several hours after I left this movie my sense of time felt much
faster.
I felt highly alert, my movements were precise and my thinking sharp...
like drinking lots of coffee but without the jitters.  I almost believed I
could exist outside of time...  fascinating and dangerous.  Be very
careful
driving home after this movie, or better yet, have someone else pick you
up.

******
9 April 1999
9

No, I am not quoting from a famous writer, that is what I feel! I should
have been getting bored of watching movies because I saw "Out of Sight" on
Friday, "Reefer Madness" on Saturday, "EdTV" on Sunday, "8MM" on Monday,
"Lord of Illusions" on Tuesday, and this movie on Wednesday.  After a line
up like that, generally I would be getting bored of movies, but I loved this
movie.  This movie held my attention all the way through its 2 hours+Plot:  I cannot explain it.  "You'll have to see it for yourself."  The
concept is strange, and I liked it.  It explains a lot.  I could just barely
follow the plot as the movie was flying by at breakneck speed (although the
plot wasn't).  It is complicated, so pay attention.  If you like
mind-numbing movies, wait for summer action flix to come
out.Acting:  It was decent.  I mean, Keanu Reeves sucks as an actor, but
Fishburne rocks.  He is one of the hottest actors of current cinema.  Don't
miss "Pulp Fiction."  The actress is good, but good looking too.  Man was
she hot in her clothes.  You can surpass the acting for the rest of the
movie though.Action and Effects:Outstanding.  Easily the best effects for a long time.
The bullets, and the staging were great.  The choreographed action scenes
looked like they were from John Woo. The effects were all over the place.
This is one of the movies where the actors don't take the back seat to the
effects.  They actually work with them, and it seems to work.  The action
sequences were many, and it was great.  Definitely see this movie in the
theater because of the effects, and sound, and because it is
wide-widescreen.  (It has a 2.33:1 ratio, whereas with formatted movies,
they cut off the sides to make it 1.33:1. That is 3/7 or almost half of the
screen.)The music is awesome techno; metal; rock and roll.  I will definitely buy
the soundtrack.  Stay for credits when Marilyn Manson's "Rock Is Dead" is
played through movie theater-quality speakers.  Perfection.Do not miss this movie in theaters.  It is one of the best action movies
since "Face-off," and one of the best sci-fi flicks ever, esp. since
"Alien."  I give this movie a nine because it had some hokiness, and
cliches, but all movie so anyways.------------9

******
9 April 1999
10

The Matrix. Instead of rambling on about the plot. I'll simply say this. An
incredible film, almost frightening in the way that it plays with the
viewer's mind. It will make you question what reality is on even the most
basic scale. Its as if Philip K. Dick and John Woo combined in mind and body
to make a film.
Destined to become a classic.All this and it has Keanu in it! Who'd have thought??? 

******
9 April 1999
8

This movie will change Sci-Fi as we know it. Ironic that its released in the
same year as PHANTOM MENACE, by two relative unknowns, Los Bros. Wachowski.
But despite Episode One, I still think this is the movie that is sparking
the most word-of-mouth around the water cooler.  Never before seen,
inventive FX, strong themes, some say rehashed, but still made fresh and
different.  Exciting leads, perfect casting (Fishburne, as always, magnetic;
Moss was icy cool, strong;your villain defines your heroes, and Weaving was
superbly evil, but also defined himself and why Agents do what they
do;lastly, Reeves always handled the physical roles well, but he also
emoted, showed a little of himself in scenes, something we hadn't seen in a
while.  Good films and good directing brings out the best in you.  In the
words of Morpheus, "You must experience the MATRIX for
yourself!".

******
9 April 1999
10

From the plot, which doesn't make itself fully known until almost halfway
through the movie (this is a good thing - it keeps you in suspense), to the
special effects, which were beyond stellar, this movie ranks as one of the
best I've ever seen. Irregardless of the fact that it draws many elements
from other stories of the genre, this movie kicks a$$. No matter what, see
this movie at least once. Depending on your point of view, the only problem
is with the ending - there was no real resolution of the main plotline. This
is bad if this is a single movie, but if there's one thing about the genre,
it's sequels. This open ending allows for another movie - which would
definitely be a good thing.

******
9 April 1999
10

In a year that is destined to be the best of the 90's for Science Fiction
this film will rival the upcoming Phantom Menace.  God I love Star Wars but
damned if I'm not so sure that Mr. Lucas has got the best Sci Fi flick this
year.  He's got some competition from this flick.  I'm sure Star Wars will
smoke everything but until then Matrix is filling up the holes ever so
nicely.  I saw the film 3 times so far and it's still opening week.  First
time in my life that I've ever seen a movie more than once in the theatre.
I've also heard rumors to the effect that "The Matrix" is the beginning of a
trilogy.  Sci Fi returns with a bang and none too soon. 

******
9 April 1999
9

I expected The Matrix to suck.I had seen the commercial during the Super Bowl, and
the first thought that crossed my mind was, "Oh god,
another Keanu/poseur-cyberpunk flick. I've never been
so glad to be wrong. This film was amazing.The majority of the people I have seen that disliked this
film, seem not to have gotten the point of it. The Matrix
bids you take a long, hard look at our perceptions of reality
and the absurdities therein. If you're willing to follow it,
and
take that leap, then this film opens up to you. If you don't, then you'll
just look at it as another example of where "Hollywood went
wrong"Most sci/fi fare of late has been like an id software
game, about three minutes of story to support two hours
of action and special effects, and technological wonders. Not
so
here. The effects do what they should do, enhance the story.
The slow time and bullet tracing effects have their places and a reason to
be there. The action and effects are there because they further the story,
not because they ARE the story. The backstory and the world the Wachowski
brothers have created here are deep enough for a million other stories with
or without the principals in this one. (As evidenced by the website, if you
haven't already, check it out and read the Gaiman story.)The acting is generally good, yes Keanu is blank and sort
of
dazed through most of it, but hell, if I could manage blank
and dazed after experiencing what his character experienced,
I'd be doing pretty damn good in my book. This script and the character play
to his strengths. Fishburne's turn as Morpheus, the "reality pusher" is
great.Yes, the dialogue can be corny at points, so what?
I have yet to find a person in real life who could snap
off a witty line in any situation without one falling flat
every now and then. And when was the last time a throwaway
line made you scratch your head and say, "Damn, I always wondered why
everything tastes like chicken."All-in-all this film has a whole lot going for it,
its strengths far outweigh its weaknesses, anyone
who didn't like it probably didn't want to like it.
It may not change your world, but it will at the
very least entertain you for two hours.    

******
9 April 1999
10

This will be the first of many cyberfictions that will eventually drown
Hollywood before the end of 20th millennium.  The movie is full of awesome
tai-chi actions though that I love.   Even if the premise of the ultimate
demise of a controlling system that defines and bounded everyday life during
the 22nd millennium is somewhat goofy.The question is once the Matrix, the omnipotent, and omnipresent system was
destroyed, what will guide the humanity?  Fear?  Greed? (Which is the
guiding principle of the 21st millennium).  If there boundless and infinite
possibility upon the destruction of logical sequence, will metaphysic
becomes the faith?  I can just jump into the conclusion.  What is evil and
what is good?Scientists are debating the projection that Sun will not be the major energy
source today, and the emergence of hot spots in the oceans redefine the
thinking of the only source of life.  But this movie is based on the premise
that the ultimate energy source will be the human itself as it generates
energy and being harvested in energy farm.  This premise is illogical, even
if we multiply the human during the time of the movie (say 2199, say
population at 20B) then each human being is to produce at least a thousand
BTU equivalents to replace the Sun.   We need the episode2,  e=Mx2 to give
us the replacement for formula e=mc2 to explain the unexplainable of Mx1,
let say Neo is now equal God and he is  The second coming prophesied by
lot of pseudo-religions.  What will be the episode 2 based its premise?  Neo
the God with Trinity will bear offspring Quadrant to define human existence
in the 23rd millennium?  Is that it? The premise and promise  of infinite
possibility, like the removal of time and space is intriguing and debatable
and will be a debacle.Mx1 is a sophistry, let the Mx2 explained the logic.

******
9 April 1999
8

Yes, I know it is derivative, and lord knows anyone who actually thought
that Mr. Reeves could act could use to up their medication dosages, but what
the hey? I liked it.  A lot.  To tell you the honest truth, it is the first
science fiction movie I have seen in a long time that was worth the price of
admission.  The best thing about it is it has some PLOT, (actually, a more
complicated than it appears at first) and some thought went into the way
things were organized.During the showing (about half way through) three teenaged guys in front of
us got up and walked out.  I guess that too many people these days are
afraid to put any thought into watching a movie and would rather just have
the world thrown into their laps.  If action is what you need, there is
plenty of crap out there that will satisfy you;  If you like a little
thinking man's action with the plot to go with it, see The Matrix. Be warned.
This isn't a "Check your brain at the door" kind of flick.

******
9 April 1999
8

This is the type of film you can't wait to see again to pick up on the
points you missed the first time.
Lots of action and the movie kept going. Never boring.
l enjoyed it very much.

******
8 April 1999
8

This is a very cool movie, and the story is very good and really weird.
Some
of the action sequences in this movie are amazing, this film is loaded
with
awesome fighting scenes and one of the best action scenes I have ever
seen.
If you love action and Sc-fi then this is a must see for
you.

******
8 April 1999
10

When I first saw the trailer of this film, the movie looked very good.
I've seen it and what a movie. It has the most intelligent and good
screenplay I've seen. Nothing in the dialogues were useless. The special
effects were very amazing. For this time, Keanu Reeves did a very good
job.
The story of The Matrix is very complicated but that why it's so good.
Before, my best movie was Dark City but The Matrix is now by far my best
film. I gives it a big ***** out of ***** . 

******
8 April 1999
10

Many times I have seen movies where I see special effects and CGI
(Computer
Generated Images) and do not think much of it.  I think this is the first
movie where the special effects not only fit perfectly but take the movie
to
a new level.  The Matrix is one movie that has motivated me to see it in
the
theaters more than once.  I applaud the writers for coming up with the
awesome plot, and marvel at the creation that was made.  This is
definitely
a movie that is in my top Ten.

******
8 April 1999
10

This movie is fantastic and energizing and makes total sense.  I went with
a
group of people and we all expected to dislike it, but we all loved it --
as
does everyone else I know.  The action sequences are so great, and when
it's
over you just want to do kung fu and beat people up, but in a good way. .
.


******
8 April 1999
10

Although some of the ideas in the Matrix are borrowed roughly from other
movies, it is still very original and has the story line, acting and visual
effects to keep almost any viewer hooked. This is one of the best sci-fi
movies to come out in recent times. I was most impressed with the
performance by Carrie-Ann Moss as Trinity. 

******
8 April 1999
10

I went in with little idea of what this movie was about.  I saw the
commercials like everyone else, hit the web page, and decided the movie
didn't matter, I just wanted to see the effects.  I thought "the plot sounds
a little like Tron" so I wasn't expecting too much of the story.  I remember
Keanu Reeves in Bill and Ted's Bogus Success (that is the name of that
movie, isn't it?) and I REALLY didn't expect much from the actors (I held
out a little hope because of Laurence Fishburne's presence).  I was thinking
too far back.  I should've thought about 2 years ago when I saw the Devil's
Advocate in which Keanu turned in a great performance, which he matched if
not improved upon in the Matrix.  Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss completed
the triumvirate quite effectively to show us a very well performed
movie.The movie is about these people who live in a simulated world - oh, but I've
said too much.  Go see it.  It's a sci-fi plot I've seen hinted at but never
fully formed in this fashion, which I find to be truly unique for this genre
of movie.All elements necessary to give a film a 10 were here...excellent acting,
writing, directing, and story-telling, great action scenes, and of course,
the sweetest eye-candy ever to hit the silver screen.  One of the only
movies I've ever watched and then been upset about an hour later because I
couldn't watch it again right away.  Definitely see this
one.PS  I can't wait for Phantom Menace to come out :) 

******
8 April 1999
10

Some of my favorite movies include Dark City (great original sci-fi plot),
Rumble in the Bronx (incredible fight scenes),  Hard Boiled (slick action
direction), L.A. Confidential (superb direction and dialogue), and Dead
Poets Society (forces to examine your own existence).  What happened if you
threw all of these movies into a melting pot?  A big jumbled mess, right?
WRONG.Somehow, someway, the W. Bros. have figured out a way to combine all of
these elements to create a film that sparks the imagination and dazzles the
eyes simultaneously.  Never before have I seen such a film that could cover
this many genres at once.  Throughout all of the masterpieces I've seen in
my days, only The Matrix has brought me back to the same movie more then
once.  The quality of this film is so overwhelming, that I've now seen it 3
times in 6 days!Star Wars is known as having one of the most intricate "universes" in sci-fi
history.  The trilogy spawns books, comics, tv shows, and video games.  The
universe created in The Matrix is SO detailed, it has the same potential.
You learn an incredible amount about the world which exists in the film, but
you don't notice it because you are being distracted with cinematography,
acting, action scenes, and special effects that are undoubtedly Oscar
worthy.The characters, you ask?  The Matrix creates genuine personalities that seem
to have been made for each actor/actress.  Believe it or not, Keanu Reeves
as Neo plays a great sympathetic hero we can all relate to.  His reactions
to odd events are on the money, and Neo can sometimes have a certain
playfulness about his abilities (look for it!).  Lawrence Fishburne
triumphs as the enigmatic Morpheus, delivering powerful dialogue exactly the
way it was intended.  Carrie Anne Moss's emotionally bottled up Trinity
fills the gaping hole that Linda Hamilton left with her performance in
Terminator 2.  Finally, the return of the butt kickin' woman!  The biggest
surprise, however, goes to Hugo Weaving for his portrayal as Agent Smith.
So many other actors could've made this another bland antagonist, but
instead they fished out Hugo from the land down under to give movie goers
one of the most memorable bad guys to date.  I know I'm leaving some other
interesting characters, but I'd be here forever.One criticism I hear over and over about this masterpiece is that it borrows
from this movie, that movie, blah blah blah... All I have to say is EVERY
movie borrows from many different sources.  In all honesty, there is no such
thing as originality!  You could easily say Star Wars stole from The Bible,
Shakespeare, Cereno de Bergerac, midieveal philosophy, and pirate
movies...so I could say, "Star Wars?  hah!  how unoriginal!"  If you think
it hasn't been done before, chances are you're just not looking hard
enough.Are you one of those people who skip to the last paragraph?  If so, here's
my review in a nutshell: Go see The Matrix.  Then go see it again.  If you
still don't understand why we'll remember it for years to come, see it
again.  I apoligize for any other intricacies of The Matrix I forgot to
mention; you usually don't come by a film with so many.  For the first time,
I can say this movie "has it all."  Such an over used cliche doesn't deserve
it half the time, but trust me, this does!10 out of 10, without a doubt.As far as sequels / prequels go, I want more Matrix, but I fear that poor
installments would detract from the sheer beauty this film possesses.  Only
time will tell.

******
8 April 1999
7

I was looking forward to seeing this flick, but was extremely disappointed
when my hopes and aspirations disappeared into cyberspace just like The
Matrix itself. Although the Warner/Village action/sci-fi does have its
moments, most of the movie is just mindless computer hacking, computer talk,
and make-believe environments made by computers. It reminded me of Johnny
Mnemonic (yet another Keanu Reeves action/sci-fi). People have been bragging
about the visual effects, but I'm thinking "What is there to brag about
anyway?". The Sydney skyline is ever so recognizable, even though the makers
attempted to cover it up by taking out certain landmarks. It's easy to see
that the majority of this flick was shot in a studio, because 90% of it is
dark and in-doors. It's also funny to note that the bad agents, aptly named
Agent Smith and Agent Jones, dress like the MIB and have the same surnames
as the actors who played them.
The helicopter crash sequence was the only thing (apart from the gun fight
in the lobby) that really stood out. You can understand why the ads for this
movie just showed that chopper crashing into the building.....because what
else is there to brag about?!

******
8 April 1999
10

I'm still recovering from seeing this film five days ago. The Matrix is the
only movie I can honestly say is worth paying seven and a half bucks for. It
went beyond my expectations and not only did the special effects blow me
away (understatement), the whole premise was amazing, clever, and
believable. Every character played their role with perfection and didn't
allow the movie to be just visually satisfying. I'd admire these actors a
great deal for dedicating many months to learning martial arts. What must
have been a very long and difficult experience paid off extremely well, and
each actor should be proud. Overall, I walked out of the theater like I had
just walked off of a rollercoaster; shaken and flabbergasted. If I had to
recommend one film out of the thousands I've seen, it would undoubtedly be
The Matrix. Once you've seen it, your perception of cinema will never be the
same. 

******
8 April 1999
9

WOW!I was very pleasantly surprised at this film.There is actually a very good and very dark story.The special effects only add to the story instead of detracting from
it.All of the supporting characters turned in performances that were just a
hair short of being truly great.Friends of mine that do not usually like either science fiction or special
effects films liked it very much as well.And, as one of them put it "Keanu Reeves does not ruin the
movie."This movie will not translate well to video -- the special effects and the
sound (which was also incredible) just will not work on a small screen -- so
I strongly suggest that you DO NOT wait for it to come out on video and see
it in a theater with the sound system that will support this
movie.Enjoy.

******
8 April 1999
10

This is my kind of movie.  I loved the concept.  The special effects were
great.  There is not one dull moment in this film.  The 2 hours and 16
minutes went by very quickly.
Do not miss this.

******
8 April 1999
10

Some Sci-Fi purists may claim that there is nothing new to the concept of
"The Matrix", that it can be synopsised as a derivative of previous
works...
While this may be strictly true (I'm not such an avid sci-fi junkie to
qualatively say either way) the reason for this comment's prevalence in
reviews is, in my opinion, because the film has no other negative aspect.
The plot has an astounding scope, the cinematography and imagery is
top-notch, the special effects and CGI seamless to the point where after
the
first 30min, you fail to notice them at all...  And the direction is
outstanding.  This is a well paced, albeit slightly long masterpiece of
modern day science fiction that I'd recommend to anyone as one of the top
5
movies to see this year.

******
7 April 1999
10

I really liked this movie.  It had everything an action movie fan could
possibly want.  Good stunts (done mostly by the cast), sub-par acting, a
good storyline, and a good plot.  I loved the effects as well.  If those
effects aren't nominated for an Academy Award then I'm sure that everyone
in
the Academy is drunk or in serious need of a good butt whooping!  I liked
the way all the characters and actors seemed to cliche with each other.
And
I wouldn't be surprised if in the next couple of years we would see "The
Matrix 2" out at theaters.  Bottom line:  it's a martial arts, bullet
stopping, roller coaster ride that will leave you breathless (but not
wanting it to end) when it's all over.  But don't take just my word for
it.
See it.  But see it in a theater with stadium seating or (at
least) THX or SDDS equipped in the theater.

******
7 April 1999
10

The timing of this movie, the flow of the action, was so well done that we
found ourselves tired after watching, realising that we had been
subconciously tensing and reacting to what was going on on the screen.
This
is when you know they have done it right!

******
7 April 1999
9

The movie was wonderful...read all of the wonderful comments (ignore those
comments from the folks who didn't get it or just don't like to be
entertained).  But I really need to speak on Laurence Fishburne's powerful
performance!  I do not expect any less of him, based on most of his other
character portrayals.    He is definitely the force behind the strength of
the message of the movie.  The supporting cast had extremely good
chemistry
going.  This was a great adventure into the past, present, and future all
at
the same time.  Thanks for the memories (i.e., Bruce Lee, Superman, Snow
White(reversed)).  Thanks for the eye candy.  Thanks for the philosophical
stimulation.  Thanks for 'The Matrix'.  Can we go back there sometime?  I
hope so.


******
7 April 1999
10

After seeing the first trailer for this film I wanted to see it the day it
came out. So far twice. Is this world just a false reality?? Or are we
just
mindless drones looking for a way out that does not exsist. This movie
starts out with a mind blowing scene with Trinity, who then goes on to
demonstrate her ability to jump higher, run
faster and escape from anything out there. If I go on then there will be
no
purpose for you to see the movie. Once again this movie was the best I've
seen this year, the f/x only made the plot more belivable.

******
7 April 1999
10

This is the best movie I have ever seen.  Hands down.  I have a lot of old
favorites, and it takes a lot for a new movie to even come close to
displacing them, but Matrix blew them all away.  If you like the "what is
reality" aspect of Total Recall, this is for you.  Matrix has a couple of
other references to other movies, but I don't want to spoil it.  This was
the perfect role for Keanu Reeves, and for those of you like me that have
been disappointed in some of his past movies, this is fully redeeming.  A
great cast of characters, a strong plot, and a smoothy flowing storyline
insure that you never get bored.  In fact, I'd say it was the fastest 2
1/2
hours of my life.  The special effects are top notch, but not overdone.
You
become fully immersed in Matrix and it is truly exhilarating.  Personally,
I
don't get that much of a thrill off of roller coasters.  Overall, an
"A+".


******
7 April 1999
8

So this is about the first movie I've seen in a good long time in which
Keanu didn't manage to totally hose it up. The effects were impeccable,
and
the feel was a lot like I felt Dark City was trying to approach. All in
all,
worth the seven and a half bucks.

******
7 April 1999
10

This film may, depending on the true nature of Stars Wars Episode I, be a
benchmark for science fiction.  The brothers Wachowski have created a
concept far beyond the imagination of most movie audiences.  I was in awe
throughout the film and left feeling as though my dreams were not
adequately
creative enough to compete with the word of The Matrix.  The film makers
were able to conceive visually those aspects of comic books and science
fiction literature that have escaped film thus far.  The closest films
that
have come to this complete visual and conceptual realization might be
Blade
Runner and Dark City.  For anyone who is interested in thinking about
things
they never imagined and seeing things they never thought possible, look no
further than The Matrix.  (WARNING: Stars Wars fans beware of possible
disappointment in Episode I if you do.) 

******
7 April 1999
10

This movie is the most intense sci fi movie I watched since "Dark City".
Powerful and original in use of special effect, W brothers directed this
film in top notch.  The casting of the film seems rather perfect.  Keanu
Reeves acting as little as possible purposely of course.  The new face "The
Trinity" character is amazing.  Her act in the film is dynamic and the
stunts are superb.  However, the plot of the movie could have been better..
If it is the question that drives them than should have left question lead
the plot rather than the special effect.  There is a faint hope of Oscars (
it's that good )  Overall, The Matrix is well worth investment of $60 million
dollars for Warner Bro.  I wouldn't be surprised to see The Matrix beat the
sales of coming sequel of Star Wars.  I already purchased another ticket for
coming Friday.  Hey!!  Can't miss out on such a movie playing on theaters. I
have friends going for third time now.  :)     

******
7 April 1999
8

This one has it all.  First, I have to say that I was drawn toward this one
by the f/x I saw in the trailers. I was amazed that the plot was of the same
quality. What amazed me even more was that Keanu Reeves did not stink!
Granted, he played a part that called for the dopey look at times, so he
wasn't completely out of his element. Still, he pulled everything off well.I know Star Wars is going to be the sci-fi movie of the year, and will
probably trounce this movie in almost every measurable category, but even
so, the bar has been raised for the action/sci-fi genre. 


******
7 April 1999
10

The Matrix has a well developed plot and a great cast of characters.  I was
very hesitant going to this movie due to the fact that Keanu Reeves was the
lead.  But, I had no need to worry, he finally proved to me that he is worth
seeing in a film.  The fight scenes were amazing along with all the special
effects.  This movie surpassed my expectations beyond anything I could have
imagined.  The plot was exciting, yet it made you think and ponder about our
own existence.  I recommend this movie to anyone over the age of 18 who can
definitely appreciate everything that is going on.  Go See
It!!

******
7 April 1999
9

As was written previously, this movie borrows a bit. HOWEVER, the package
this movie wraps everything together in is phenomenal. The music, the
action, and most definitely the thought provoking plot of this movie make it
worth seeing multiple times. I have had dreams that were probably some of
the most bizarre that have ever been dreamed, but this went well beyond
those. Also, there are aspects in this movie other than the plot that
require thought. Some of the names and symbology have an underlying theme.
Bravo to a movie for thinking people who like a little KILLER action and
visual stimulation on the side! 

******
7 April 1999
9

I just saw the Matrix, and well yes it was a good movie no doubt, but the
plot was given away in the first 9 minutes... and well I was expecting a
little bit more out of a sci-fi movie. And the end is a little disappointing.
But other than that it was a damn fine movie to watch... the effects were
great, the cast fought nice with other profiles.

******
7 April 1999
9

This film delivers all that it promises.  What is the Matrix?  That is the
question the movie answers, and when it does it really surprises.The movie combines elements from the Terminator and  movies such as the
Truman Show or TV's Strange World.  Surprisingly, however derivative it
is,
it is a very well executed movie.  The acting is good, and the plot is
very
good.  In fact, the story line provoked discussion with friends about
living
a lie all the way home from the movie theater.  Of course, the FX are
fantastic, that goes without saying.Also, for an R rated movie, the Matrix has very little objectionable
material in it.  There isn't much cursing.  The only reason I can think of
for it's rating is the repeated shootings, and they aren't that
bloody.I highly recommend this movie!  Go expecting some surprises!


******
7 April 1999
7

Although the previews for this film make the movie out to be an
action-packed extravaganza, it really wasn't.  I was surprised to see all
of
the best scenes in the movie already show up in the trailers.  Nothing
much
surprised me unfortunately, but I did enjoy the film because of its
intriguing plot.  It actually seems plausible.  I also love the
special-effects, although much of the movie was too murky to see anything.
They were completely seemless and that's what I loved about this movie.
Other than that, it relied a bit on cliches and formulas and the ending
was
too predictable, that the film wouldn't have suffered at all if it were
changed to be more original.  It may have actually been better.  This film
is worth seeing once at least. 

******
7 April 1999
10

The Matrix is so Awesome!!! For those of you who haven't seen it hurry up!
The special effects kicks a** and so do the actors! You have to see it to
believe it! Prepare to get blown away!

******
7 April 1999
10

The Matrix is the first great movie of 1999.  The special f/x were
top-notch, and the well-thought plot always kept me on the edge of my seat.
Keanu Reeves was the definition of cool as Neo, and the soundtrack was
great.  I advise everyone to run out and see this movie.  It is destined to
become the best sci-fi film of the year (besides Star Wars: Episode 1, of
course).  GREAT MOVIE!

******
7 April 1999
9

Great FX with story line that keeps you involved.  Pulse pounding action and
music with KUNGFU fighting-what more could you want??  See this one on the
big screen, don't wait for video! 

******
7 April 1999
10

This stylish, hip film is a must see for anyone who loves movies. The
Wachowski brothers deliver a tour-de-force of slick appeal which pays homage
to everything from "Alice in Wonderland" to "The Terminator." Keanu Reeves
delivers a fine performance along the lines of his work in "Speed."
Carrie-Anne Moss makes the perfect freedom fighter alongside him, and no-one
is cooler then Laurence Fishburne. The special effects are PHENOMENAL, the
soundtrack loud, but useful, and the amazing fight sequences are not to be
missed.

******
7 April 1999
9

A great trip, an interesting perspective, makes you think..   This movie had
a unique twist that made it fun to watch and wonder what was going to happen
next.  A movie for the mindfully challenged, there were a lot of hidden
messages...  You might have to see this one more than once! 

******
7 April 1999
9

Traditionally in Hollywood, big budget effects movies' story lines tend to
suck inversely proportionally to the quality of the effects, with a few
notable exceptions. We are told by the big wigs, that we are too stupid to
get it, and must be spoon fed what a movie is trying to say. Here is a film
that breaks the mold thoroughly. The story line is very taught and well
developed, (kinda the greatest story ever told meets dark city meets
hackers)and the effects are a tool to further the telling of the story. In
this kind of movie clearly fancy effects are required, but we are left to
use our brains to figure out what is going on and what its implications are
to us. I for one will have to see it at least twice to get all the stuff
that ties together. Kudos to the directors on making us think! 
:)

******
7 April 1999
9

Kudos to Warner Brothers for breaking their bad-movie slump.  THE MATRIX is
their best release in a long time, and it will make a kickass DVD!  I wasn't
expecting much from a cheesy sci-fi movie starring Keanu Reeves and a bunch
of other unknown actors, but whoa, I was blown away by
this!There are a few problems with the movie, granted, but these problems are far
outweighed by the incredible ingenuity of the story line and the best fight
scenes I have ever seen!  The "agents" were especially cool.  The worst
thing about this movie was the "talking bad-guy" syndrome.  The bad guys
talk too much when they are winning.  But it doesn't detract too much from
the movie, since the agent's speech is actually somewhat interesting.  Also,
the "humans as energy" scheme made no sense.  But there was nothing that
made the plot fall apart.Keanu Reeves is also... gasp;... GOOD in this movie.  I still can't
believe that is really him and Fishburne fighting.  Those scenes are so well
done it defies belief.  I thought the first half of the movie was the best
though, when you don't really know what is going on.  And the sci-fi jargon
actually makes sense, so it is not a bore to listen to.  Well, if you
haven't seen this movie yet, do it!  I hope TPM can top
Matrix!

******
6 April 1999
8

The Matrix is an exciting and very interesting movie.  It combines great
special effects with an interesting story line.  It's only down-side is
that
some of the exposition is heavy-handed and takes too long (there were
parts
of the movie where I was just bored).  But the next fight scene more than
made up for the slow parts and the idea behind it was
compelling.

******
6 April 1999
10

The Matrix is not only the best action movie I've ever seen, it has
substantial philosophical implications that will keep you thinking after
you
leave the movie.  It has amazing special effects, some humorous lines and
moments, great fight scenes and a great sci-fi story.I admit, I saw this movie the Thursday it came out because I'd heard about
and seen some of the amazing special effects.  I'd told my girlfriend
about
it and she came with me.  As much as I expect it to be the quintessential
guy movie, she enjoyed the movie tremendously and the plot and acting
turned
out to be a lot better than what I'd expected.The movie made me think so much, I went home and opened my Philosophy
textbook 'Reason and Responsibility' and willingly read about human
knowledge, it's grounds and limits, the mind-body problems, the
implications
of AI and it's effects on our life.I liked the movie so much, that my cousin and I saw it the very next day.
My cousin liked it so much that he also returned to see it two days in a
row.  The movie is a lot different the second time around and I found it
even more enjoyable than the first time.  Everything the oracle says makes
a
lot more sense, you can appreciate the special effects without being too
involved with what is coming up.  The beginning makes a lot more sense and
you notice new things, such as Neo's book, containing a chapter titled "On
Nihilism".  While I saw a review for the
movie that called it overly philosophical, I would call it a thinking
man's
action movie.I recommend this movie be seen by anyone who even remotely likes sci-fi or
action and/or great special effects, and that if you liked it the first
time, see it again in a movie theater.  It's worth it for the special
effects and the different perspective on the story.

******
6 April 1999
10

I absolutely loved this movie!  This movie is
all plot!  The special effects are the medium to express it.  We all know
how amazing those two films are.  I expect this film to do very well at
the
box office and continue to garnish a steady stream of revenue for many
years to come as a favorite cult classic of the techno-savvy and
psychologically astute audience.  This is not a film for the
sedate.For those familiar with Moore's law and the eventual emergence of
nanotechnology, the plausibility of 'The Matrix' is all to real.  The
Matrix
reminds us of the value of our humanity and I think cautions us to wake up
and not take things for granted; that we may go forward with wisdom and
compassion aboard a technological rocket ride that frees us, not enslaves
us.  The message is simple - increase your intelligence
now!

******
6 April 1999
9

This movie could very easily have been horrible. I thought it would be a
flimsy plot written just to showcase unbelievable computer graphics.
However, it turned out to be one of the best movies so far to incorporate
computerized special effects. The absolutely beautiful style and feel of
the
movie work wonderfully with the computer graphics, the action is well
directed and choreographed, and the story has enough sci-fi to satisfy
hardcore audiences but still entertain the masses. Keanu Reeves still Ted
Theodore Logan's a few lines, but manages to pull of the character. The
Matrix could easily join the cult sci-fi status that Bladerunner holds.
The
Matrix is an incredible movie that makes you think in that metaphoric way
good sci-fi can, and makes you slap high fives for the action. Only one
problem: There is no way Keanu goes from State and Balbo to Chinatown that
fast on foot in Chicago.

******
6 April 1999
10

Until I checked the comments here I knew two types of people. Those who
loved it and those who hadn't seen it. I saw it for the second time
tonight
with a bunch of friends. For some this was their fourth time. Pretty
scary,
it reminded me of Titanic.
One of my friends is in the film school here at CU and he loved it. Now we
are all pretty sure that Keanu Reeves is not a good actor (for some that
is
putting it mildly). How ever THIS was his kind of role and for once he
actually did a good job. (Personally, I liked Speed too, but it was far
from
great).
This movie had a little of everything. It had the philosophy, the Sci-fi,
the
horror(those squids were FREAKY and the "bug" gave me shivers), a dash of
love, martial arts, and of course, action. There were religous references,
literary references and more. All in all don't believe me that it's good,
and PLEASE don't listen to someone else that it was bad. Take a chance and
see it for yourself. Spend some change and chances are good that you won't
regret it. You'll either love it or hate it. There is no middle
ground.

******
6 April 1999
8

This movie had everything, it had gun fights, kick-a** kung fu scenes,
great
special effects, and everything else you would want in a action flick and
sci-fi movies. The previews were perfect because they enticed you enough
to
see it without giving away anything. I recommend that anyone who likes
action or sci-fi or even just weird movies, this is the one for
everyone.

******
6 April 1999
10

I loved this movie. It presents the what is reality question with far
more
skill than any movie I've seen thus far. This movie was the most mentally
inspiring movie I have seen since Dark City, and it was much more
interesting to me.

******
6 April 1999
10

Wow, This movie is awesome. I particularly like the long action scenes
that
included Neo kicking some butt martial arts style!! In fact , a little bit
of the fighting scenes reminded me of the old martial arts films that
featured Bruce Lee!! Like the thumbing of the nose, the slow motion of the
waving arms, a lot of it reminded me of Bruce.
I must add that this film is the turning point of what we will expect from
Hollywood because of its dynamic special effects. I have only seen these
effects of the stopping of time and the camera circling around the action
in a couple of commercials and I was waiting till a movie would include
these effects in their movie!! well, The Matrix has definitely used all of
those special effects..... Bravo!!!

******
6 April 1999
10

This is THE movie to see.  This may be the best Sci-Fi/ action movie since
Terminator 2, it might even be better.  Not wanting to give away the plot,
this movie shows what could happen if we don't watch ourselves.  Fishburn
is
AMAZING!!! The graphics are the best I have seen!!!!  If you are going to
the movies between now and May 19th (Starwars)  then you have to see The
Matrix, and even after May 19th, see it,  " because you have to see it to
understand it, I can't describe it "

******
6 April 1999
10

One of the best movies I've seen in a long time, and as a movie
projectionist, I've seen almost all of them... It's only the second movie
I've seen outside of work at a theater in two years, and I have seen it
twice... It rocks... See it

******
6 April 1999
10

I walked into this movie with one thing on my
mind - "The special effects will be awesome, the movie will
suck." Boy, was I wrong. I had what a lot of people had -
"Johhny Mnemonic" flashbacks prior to walking in. I mean, let's
face it - he's never done Sci-Fi well.Anyways, enough of expectations. From the moment Carrie-Ann Moss
floated into the air and did her little Kung Fu maneuvers, I
knew the special effects were going to be killer and I was
hooked if for no other reason just to see more of that.What I got was not only a special effects ride, but an engaging
plot. Laurence Fishburne and his Obi-Wan like character fit him
more nicely than I had thought it would. He was quite convincing
as the man who has been "searching for the one". Keanu Reeves is
not a fantastic actor, but he held his own here. He actually had
me convinced that he was the "one".The plot was incredibly intelligent even if it isn't new - it's
the question philosophers have been battling for years - "What
is reality?" The Wachowski brothers handled this question with
incredible skill, however. They took a tired idea and repackaged
it for today's vision of tomorrow's technology - the ultimate VR
experience. 

******
6 April 1999
8

Action, sci-fi., suspense, they even throw in some love. I think This
movie
has it all. Though, not in much length, in some of the above, but a good
movie.  

******
6 April 1999
7

This movie cheerfully borrows from damn near every action/adventure/sci-fi
genre in recent memory, and a fair sampling of recent video games to boot.
The plot is a tad too ambitious for the script -- for a movie that makes
so
much about obeying and/or bending the rules that govern reality, its own
rules are pretty shaky at times. But who cares? It's fun to watch, from
the
electro-insects to Keanu Reeves trading snap kicks in cyberspace with
Laurence Fishburne, to Carrie-Anne Moss' turn as the world's most
dangerous
leather freak. (Her opening sequence is one of the movie's
best.)

******
6 April 1999
8

This was a fun, action packed movie to watch with special effects that
were
fantastic.I kept flashing back to 2 other similar movies, though, one even starring
Keanu: Lawnmower Man, and Johnny Mnemonic. I guess that just goes to show
that in the matrix, parallel worlds do exist...

******
6 April 1999
10

"The Matrix" is one of the best sci-fi movies i've
seen in awhile, and one of the best movies of 1999 so far.The themes in this movie have been explored in
sci-fi before but I was
impressed that the movie gives it a new twist and a
plot which was pretty sound.The special effects, camera work, and fight sequences
are all incredible and well done. I thought the use of slow motion was
excellent and added alot of neat things to the action. The martial arts
action was some of the best i've ever seen in a movie.-Keanu Reeves did a decent job as Neo, much better then
some
of his last couple of movie roles-Laurence Fishburne was very cool as the wise
and experienced Morpheus. A great performance-Carrie-Anne Moss was the person that impressed me
the most, she was excellent as Trinity. She gave a
great performance that made me really like her character.-and Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith did a great job as the
main
villian. He gave Smith such a cold, calculating and menacing
look and attitude, he also impressed me.Don't wait too long, go see "The Matrix"

******
6 April 1999
10

This is the movie that the CGI wizards have been promising.  An
outstanding
story welded together with amazing special effects.  A combination of many
types of filmworks, including martial arts films, John Woo-Style gunplay,
and dizzying science-fiction, this film is the first great movie I have
seen
this year.  Unlike the horrible "Godzilla" or "Wing Commander", this movie
uses its special effects to enhance, not replace, its story. The W2
brothers
have done it again, easily topping their lurid, but enticing previous
film,
"Bound".  Check out this one for sure!

******
6 April 1999
10

The Matrix is the best Science Fiction movie ever made!  I've never been
so
"geeked" over a movie.  Since the opening last week, I have already seen
it
three times, and unlike most movies, it gets better every time you see it.
It gets better because you pick up on things that you missed the first
time.
Anybody notice what the title of the chapter that was in the book that he
stored his "illegal" discs inside.  The chapter was called "nihilism."
Defined as :"An extreme form of skepticism that denies all existence.  A
doctrine holding that all values are baseless and that nothing can be
known
or communicated.  A delusion that the world or ones mind, body, or self
does
not exist."  Think about it....

******
6 April 1999
9

Every movie I see I give a rating somewhere between 1 and 10.  To give
some
perspective, I gave Braveheart a 10, as well as the Star Wars Trilogy as a
whole.  I've given tens to a very small amount of movies, and they've all
been what I consider extremely good films with almost no flaws.  The
Matrix
was amazing, it had me riveted throughout.  Definitely the best action
film
in history, and without a doubt one of my all-time favorites.

******
6 April 1999
10

I'm normally not a big sci-fi fan.  In fact, I just went to see this for
the
special effects.  But the plot was so well-constructed, I couldn't really
think of any major holes anywhere in the movie.  And the effects were
everything I'd hope they would be and more.  They didn't go overboard, it
was an even balance of clever writing and incredible
film-making.

******
6 April 1999
10

Absolutely amazing! This film definitely kept me glued to my seat and I
NEVER looked at my watch. The storyline was cohesive and very well done.
Plot turn after plot turn!You really can't get too much info or it will spoil the story ending for
you. You really can't guess too much of what is ahead as you are basically
only getting the main character's point of view. Keanu Reeves did an
outstanding job! All of the actors were excellent. Laurence Fishburne
(Morpheus) added great depth.The digitized effects were very clean and thorough. Definitely worth the
price of admission.

******
6 April 1999
9

Okay, I just saw this movie and I must admit that it was somewhat
confusing
at first, but that's because my attention was being focused on the two
idiots sitting behind me.  Anyway, if one were to pay attention to this
movie (which is what I recommend), one would notice that there was basic
philosophy in this movie.  And many people who like philosophy, like me,
would absolutely love this movie. However, I did notice the similarity
towards the end of the movie with one of Keanu Reeves' earlier movies
"Little Buddha".  But I won't say what it is because I wouldn't want to
spoil the end for you. Anyway, I would recommend it if you are one of the
people who likes to come out of the theater with an expression of
disbelief...it's worth it.

******
6 April 1999
10

This movie blew me away.  I loved how it started off slow.  It
introduced you into the world, and gave a chance for the
audience to understand and be in that world.  When the amazing
action sequences came, they didn't seem as if they were the
reason for the movie (which is what I feared).  Everyone always
disses on Keanu, but he was alright in this movie.  Give the guy
a break, he has that charasmatic hero appeal that made him
popular in "Speed."  The Wachowski brothers have hit gold twice
now (I loved "Bound" as well).  I urge everyone to go see it.

******
6 April 1999
10

I'll start by saying what I think of this film. I loved it, it was
exactlly
what I expected from a sci-fi action film..unlike many other recently
released for example...The soldier, which stared Kurt Russel..but The
SOLDIER wasn't that bad...back to THE MATRIX...the special effects were
great, and so were the actors..Now this is what I liked about the special effects from the movie..I loved
the stop scenes in midair...and the monsters that attacked the ship(which
I
would have seen more of them).The actors were great. Reeves was the best in this film..and Fishbourne
with
this film might have moved him self up on the best actor charts..And the
movie also had a load of many other talented actors.And thats why I call THE MATRIX the best movie EVER. I gave this movie a
10.

******
6 April 1999
9

This movie is cool!  It takes a lot from it's Sci-Fi predecessors but puts
new spins on everything.  The real reason for seeing this movie though is
the visuals.  Go see it, the SFX will blow your mind.

******
6 April 1999
10

A GREAT sci-fi action movie.  When I heard a day before it opened that
people were raving about it I knew that was a good sign.  It ranked up
there
with Blade, as an action movie; and surpassed it as far as storyline.  If
you liked blade, bladerunner, etc., you should like this
flick.

******
6 April 1999
10

One of the best, most invigorating film experiences I've ever had.  This
film hits on all cylinders: it has an inventive, ingenious plot;
well-developed, sympathetic characters; and never-seen-before effects that
will blow you away.  I had to see it twice in two days just because I
couldn't get it out of my mind.The best thing about it is that the effects, plot and characters all work
together in perfect synergy.  This is not simply one of the countless
big-budget FX extravaganzas that have the stock, cardboard characters and
the swiss cheese plot (i.e. not only cheesy but full of holes) that exist
merely so the film-makers can impress you with their effects prowess and
show off their bells and whistles.In THE MATRIX, the characters compliment the plot, which compliments the
effects, which compliment the characters.   There are no more effects than
necessary and no less.  Everything fits perfectly.  This is seemless,
kick-a** entertainment, populated by characters to root for and care
about.
Further deepening the film is its Christ-like parable about someone
prophesized to save humanity, which works to great effect.Some will say that this movie re-uses sci-fi ideas from other films, but
the
truth is there are no new ideas in stories anymore, only fresh ways of
presenting the old ones.  This movie does that in a big way. It is a
serious
leap of the imagination (not to mention its some of the absolute coolest
stuff you'll ever see on film or anywhere else.)

******
6 April 1999
10

That's the way this movie went.  It started off slowly and confusing.
But
the pace was gradually picked up and the last hour was total action and
explosions.  I went to this movie for the fight scenes and actually came
away seeing a movie with a great sci-fi plot and some of the best action
sequences ever.  9.5 out of 10!

******
6 April 1999
9

The Matrix :
1 Part Dark City
2 Parts (place Hong Kong action movie here)
1 Part Terminator
Mix well.This movie was such a pleasant surprise.  The trailer did a really good job
of not giving away ANYTHING about the movie, which is why I was really
skeptical about seeing it... it looked like a bunch of random fight scenes
with some f/x thrown in.  But it was really cool, even though the plot was
very inspired.  It's one of those movies that you can watch again and again
and notice new stuff each time.  Definitely a must-see (and must-buy when it
comes out on DVD, which it will, since it's a WB movie)....

******
6 April 1999
10

This is one of the very first movies that actually made me think in the
theater.  "The Matrix" had some very intriguing lines that made you ponder
the most obvious things around us.  Such as when Morpheus (Fishburne) says
to Neo (Reeves), "You believe it is the year 1999, when actually it is
closer to 2199..." and he goes on to explain the down fall of our world as
we know it to "AI" artificial intelligence and machines.  Also, when
Morpheus confuses Neo by questioning his definition of "real":  "What is
real?  How do you define real?  If to you real is what you can see or touch
or smell, then it is simply electrical signals being sent to your brain."We are born into a world which we do not question or take a 2nd glance at.
It is a world based on "rules".  It is given to us, therefore we accept it
for what it is and nothing more. This is in fact the underlying theme of "The
Matrix" and how we go on living our lives oblivious.  Making the Fishburne's
quote  "Do you really think that's air your breathing right now?" very
believable.With all this thinking going on, you are bound to miss some of the best
martial arts fighting sequences I have seen to date.  Using slow motion to
the fullest, the action sequences are given a type of grace, such as when
Fishburne is floating in the air in the dojo sequence.  This uncut, kung fu
style fighting is sure to leave the audience with a smile of pure enjoyment
on their faces.
In all, this is the best movie I have seen and must be seen more than
once to appreciate the plot, the morals, the action, the camera angles, and
excellent acting by all 4 main cast members.  I strongly recommend this
movie to anyone who is willing to "free their mind".  

******
6 April 1999
10

While not your normal movie, The Matrix provides a very fascinating look at
another futuristic standpoint. The movie provides an excellent cast, a very
well structured and creative story, and directing that spans past a standard
filmmaking process. I'm not a big fan of action movies in that lack of story
to give us more gunshot scenes and explosions kind of way. The Matrix,
however, is action, gunshot scenes, and explosions movie in a different kind
of way. This is not the normal action movie shootout scenes, no pointless or
horrendously oversized explosions, no cheesy lines or bored two-dimensional
characters. This movie is truly an excellent idea that didn't suffer
cutbacks or cliche events to score a quick profit. One of the things I liked
about this movie was the complexity of the story line. This isn't a movie
that spoon feeds you the information your brain requires to understand
what's going on. You do have to think, and that's one thing I liked about
it. The movie starts out fast, and ends with goose bumps. This is a movie
that wets your appetite for more and satisfies your cravings until you're
completely infatuated by its composure. A excellent movie that will stick
with you for some time to come. I can't wait for the sequel.

******
6 April 1999
10

This is one of the best movies I have seen.  The special effects are the
best.  The fight scenes were terrific.  The movie is not that hard of a
stretch when you see how fast technology is moving.   THE MATRIX IS ALREADY
FORMING.!!!!! 

******
5 April 1999
10

The Matrix is not only an action movie, but a movie that is intelligent as
well.  Intelligence in movies today is rare, but The Matrix is a movie that
holds you to the edge of your seat, and also makes you think about your own
existence.
These types of movies are a dime a dozen.  If you just want action, see
this movie.  If you want to challenge your mind, and I mean challenge the
thoughts of your own existence, you must see this movie.  Keanu may not be
classified as an Oscar caliber actor, but in this movie, he not only shows
that he can act, but that he can challenge the realm of our
reality. 

******
5 April 1999
8

You don't want to leave your seat during this movie. Going in to it I
figured that if nothing else, the effects would make for some good eye
candy. And it does, but there is also a captivating story that goes with it
to that makes this movie worthwhile entertainment, rather than it being
"Johnny Mnemonic: Part 2" 

******
5 April 1999
10

I saw the Matrix and I was completely blown away from it. The special
effects were very impressive and well performed. They did not take over the
story but worked with it beautifully. It had potential of becoming a bit
pretentious but managed to stay away from it.The actors really were amazing and the mix between special effects, martial
arts and philosophy worked together fabuously. I will go and see it again and
I recommend others to do the same.

******
5 April 1999
10

This is one of the best movies I have seen in a long time.  I didn't even
mind the $9.50(canadian, yet!) price tag.  In fact, I am planning on seeing
it again.  Excellent cast.  All I can say is, it really makes you think.
The premise is an updated version of the "What if we are just an experiment
in a petri dish in a lab somewhere?" question. Even if you don't like Keanu,
it's still a really good pic. 

******
5 April 1999
10

"The Matrix" is absolutely the best film of the century.  It has the best
story, the best actors, and the best directors.  I was amazed how all the
pieces were put up together.  It comes out the only film that is worthwhile
watching over and over.  I will keep it in my DVD collections and watch the
movie AT LEAST one more time.  If you miss watching this film, I would have
suggested you not to be born.  GO SEE IT!!!

******
5 April 1999
10

The Matrix is an incredible movie in so many aspects.The writing and direction are superb.  The story line is very complex and
deep, but explained in to understanding.  The humor is great, without
becoming cheesy.And then, there are the special effects...  They will blow you
away.I gave this movie a top rating.  I can't wait to see it again.  DO NOT miss
this one on the big screen. 

******
5 April 1999
7

What if the world in which we live wasn't real?
This is the scenario that the writing/directing team of Larry and
Andy Wachowski (Bound) take on in their ultra-paranoid new sci-fi flic, The
Matrix.  The film takes place in the near future, where Paul Anderson, a
hacker who goes by the name of Neo (Keanu Reeves), stumbles upon an immense
computer program, The Matrix, about which nothing is known.  Neo quickly
gets intrigued by the mystery of The Matrix, and in his quest to find out
what it is he meets Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), another hacker who claims
that he can reveal the secret of The Matrix to Neo.  The catch:  once Neo
finds out what The Matrix is, his life will never be the same again.And so begins the adventure for Neo, who must put aside his own disbelief
in order to defeat the Gatekeepers and the traitor Cypher (Joe Pantoliano)
save Morpheus' life, all while falling in love with Morpheus'
second-in-command, Trinity (Carrie-Ann Moss).  Not bad for a lowly software
programmer.
Admittedly, the plot for The Matrix sounds a little weak and the dialogue
is pretty cheesy (we're given lines like `Hold on Dorothy, cause Kansas is
going bye-bye.'), but the film is able to pull it off, mostly with the help
of some brilliant special effects.  And they are brilliant.  Mass.Illusions,
LLC, the same parent company that achieved technical wizardry with What
Dreams May Come, once again shines through here with some impressive
freeze-frame motion special effects.
Keanu Reeves (Speed, Johnny Mnemonic) still can't act, but, Bill and Ted's
aside, this is probably the least horrible of all his performances.
Luckily, his stone-cold serious character is given little to do besides blow
things up and utter one-word exclamations such as `Whoa!' and `Cool!'  It
was almost as if Neo was written with Reeves' limited talent in
mind.
Unfortunately, however, none of the other actors are given too much to do
either.  For all of his talent, Laurence Fishburne (Just Cause, Hoodlum) is
only given so much to do, to the point where he is neither a plus or a minus
in the film.  The same holds true for Carrie-Ann Moss (Sabotage, The Secret
Life of Algernon), who seems too preoccupied with her love for Neo and so
comes off as being an extremely one-dimensional character.  Even the film's
most interesting character, Agent Smith, as the leader of the Gatekeepers,
is overdone too the point of being annoying.  This is a shame because the
dry, cynical way in which Australian actor Hugo Weaving(The Adventures of
Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, Reckless Kelly) portrays him is for the most
part a welcome deviation from the robot-like interpretations of every other
character in the movie.
The bottom line is that The Matrix is worth seeing if for no other reason
than to be blown away by some really cool visual effects.  Because,
honestly, there is really not a whole lot more than that.  One wonders just
how good The Matrix could have been, if only the script could have been
revised just a few more times, and the cast had been chosen just a little
more carefully.


******
5 April 1999
9

I must admit that I was a bit dubious about this one, since there have been
so many horrendous computer/AI films in the past, but I was actually quite
pleasantly surprised.  The Matrix is a truly entertaining film, with nice
attention paid to internal plot consistency, as well as an impressive
selection of special effects.  Fans of anime-style action scenes should
definitely tune in for this one, it's right up your alley.On a semi-related note, I'm reminded of the series of computer-scare movies
that started decades ago when the technology was still in its infancy.
Suddenly it seemed Hollywood couldn't get enough of the "do we really know
what we're getting into?" theme.  Every once in a while, there's a new
scare, as we make more and more progress in computer-related fields.  Now we
have the Internet, Web, and continuing attempts at Artificial Intelligence
stirring up those fun anxieties all over again.  Seems to be a topic that
just keeps coming back.  But then, they say there are only 5-10 storylines
anyway, and everything out there is just a rehashing of various
combinations...Despite the fact that this storyline is similar, as most are, to many that
have come before it, the premise is still a well-structured and intriguing
one.  Nicely conceived and executed, I must say.  The Matrix may not be high
drama or Best-Picture material, but it's still fun, exciting, and even
(gasp!) thought-provoking.  Enjoy it for what it is, you won't be
disappointed... 

******
5 April 1999
10

Well gee.  I'm not really a fickle person.  I like most of the movies that I
see, and I actually enjoy most movies with Keanu Reeves (woah, it's true).
Still, I was somewhat more excited to see this film more than others.  And
what can I say, two days later, I saw it again.See this film.  Please?It was great.  I can't help but tell everyone that I know that they just
have to see this film!  It was more than just a movie.  It really captured
my imagination, and made me THINK about it over and over until I had no
choice but to see it again just to feed my aching cerebrum.The acting was great.  Reeves and Fishburne made an amazing duo, and all of
the other characters really helped to bring it together, as well.  The
choreography was top notch - those fighting scenes are breathtaking,
especially since you can see that the actors themselves are the ones doing
all the insane punching and kicking.The special effects... whew.  Being someone who wants to go into sfx for a
career, I will usually see any sfx enhanced movie just for that (I actually
enjoyed Godzilla... albeit mildly, and Lost in Space made me drool, as much
as other people seemed to not like it).  The Matrix new exactly what was
needed.  That "time slice" effect seems to be highly overdone as of late,
and whoever invented it is rolling in the dough, but it was really well used
here, and I think added to the story.   I feel that the
characters' abilities to warp reality were shown this way.  The effect made
it seem as though they moved so fast that time had to be slowed so the
audience could see what was happening, or sometimes that the characters
could actually slow time in order to do some of their stunts.  Whatever the
case - I thought it worked.The story was so neat!  When I think about this film in hindsight, it's as
if this film was a REALLY good comic book that was turned into a REALLY good
film.  I could visualize every single scene being re-done into a Todd
McFarlane epic.  I'll bet that something not far from that actually
happens.In the end, if other people react as I do to this film, it will be a big
money maker, probably spawn lots of paraphernalia, goods, more movies, WHO
KNOWS?  It may not top Star Wars (that's a movie that I will camp out to
see), but it sure kept my mouth watering and will keep my brain at ease as I
wait for May 19th.

******
5 April 1999
7

Most of the other comments that I have seen on "The Matrix" I see
have focused on the technical aspects of the film. The technical aspects are
prodigious, but I would like to spend some time discussing the philosophical
issues behind the film. Philosophers have debated for years about 'reality'.
One of the assumptions is that what is real' is what we are conscious of.
This seems to be the view that the film takes. In the film Morpheus
(Laurence Fishburne) tells Neo (Keanu Reeves) that if what is real is what
we are conscious of, then it is true that the matrix does exist. The other
view is that in the world there are certain realities that are indifferent
to our perceptions. This argument, in my opinion, does not hold much water.
We may want to think that there is a specific, fixed 'reality' because we as
humans usually see things in a similar light. But, let's take the example of
an animal such as a dog. Research has shown that dogs can only see in black
and white. If this is true, then we can rightly assert that a dog's
'reality' is quite different from that of a human's. How are we to know
which is the true 'reality'? We don't. A dog's reality is black and white
and our reality is color. This however does not mean that what is real' is
either of these; both are equally real in terms of the systems of
perceptions of each being (dog and human). Dogs and people have different
modes of perception, thus creating different perceptions of 'reality'. One
may argue that there is no 'real' in the material sense of the word, as
there has to be a mechanism of perception enabled by a sentient being for
any notion of the 'real' to exist. In other words the 'real' cannot exist
without 'perception'. I know these ideas are quite complex and the example
that I have used isn't directly related to "The Matrix", but I think that
this philosophical concept in general is explored, and thus what I have
discussed is quite relevant.Philosophical abstractions such as what I have described are fascinating,
and are integral to the making of great science fiction film. The greatest
science fiction films not only amaze us with their use of technology, they
also have a deep understanding and care for the human condition, which
according to a Marxist view is incompatible with technology. Many films of
this genre present technology as a form of ideology propagated by a ruling
class (the bourgeois). Technology is seen as a dehumanizing agent, and much
of the great work in science fiction is done as a social commentary in
reaction to rapid technological expansion. This response is present
throughout the works of writers such as Philip K. Dick and William Gibson,
both of whom have obviously influenced Larry and Andy Wachowski's script for
"The Matrix". I see hints of ideas from films such as "Dark City", "Blade
Runner", and "Strange Days" as well. This is not a negative thing though;
the story of "The Matrix" is fairly original despite all of its influences
from previous work.There is a point where "The Matrix" falls short, however, and that is in
its action sequences. The action sequences look spectacular, but when it
comes down to it, they seem like they are inserted as nothing more than
fillers where we could have been acquainted with new ideas. "Dark City" was
a great science fiction film for many reasons, but one of them is the fact
that it didn't overwhelm the audience with familiar shootouts (ie Die Hard
films) and fight scenes (ie John Woo's Hong Kong action pictures). When the
big action scene towards the finale of "The Matrix" occurs, it feels like
the Wachowski brothers left the set leaving the direction to John Woo. John
Woo loves to see action in slow motion, and trust me, there is plenty of
that here. It all looks good, but it feels out of place, as though the
producers must have stepped in and said that their had to be a big action
sequence to draw upon a wider audience.Overall, "The Matrix" was a good movie, but not a great one. The first half
or two thirds of the film are spell-binding with its issues of reality',
but it begins to fall apart towards the end, where action scenes take center
stage and overwhelm the point of the story. In short, I wanted to see more
emphasis on the philosophical roots of the story and less emphasis on
adrenaline pumping action sequences. Good, original ideas can build up
suspense and adrenaline too. "Dark City" and "Blade Runner" proved that to
me.*** out of ****


******
5 April 1999
9

This movie has everything you'd want in an SF spectacular: a great story,
incredible special effects, and strong performances from Laurence Fishburne,
Keanu Reeves, and Carrie-Anne Moss (hubba hubba). The theater we watched it
in was packed to the gills, and everyone reacted to the film's polychromatic
emotional effects: funny, wired, violent, and with eye-popping
FX. 

******
5 April 1999
10

Oh man, here I am waiting desperately for Star Wars to come out, and am
suddenly blindsided by what is very probably the best movie I have seen
since "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" (which is my favorite movie
ever).  It is, if taken in its primal essence, an unsurpassed paranoia
movie.  However, as anyone who plays the game Mage: The Ascension can
attest:  It was good to see those Virtual Adepts giving those uppity
Technocrats a good beat-down!  World of Darkness fans, this movie is a
must-see.  Everyone else, go see it anyway.  It is just that
good. Miki


******
5 April 1999
10

A superb storyline backed up by the toughest neural network of special
effects seen to date.  Keanu does not wreck this movie at 
all, the writers/directors brothers controlled him well and got him to lose
necessary weight.  Even the potential contradictions within the story are so
mysterious that they could make sense after all.  What do I mean?  You
simply have to see the Matrix to "know" what I mean.  Got any
wine?

******
5 April 1999
8

The Matrix is a very good movie.  The plot is derivative, but good.  The
acting ranges from passable (Keanu Reeves) to good (everyone else).  What
sets this movie apart from all others is the visual effects.  I have never
seen anything like the action sequences in The Matrix... Stunningly
original.  From the opening scene of the movie, we are given one
breathtaking sequence after another.  Word of warning, though -- it is a bit
campy.  I think it would have played better as straight action, but if a
little corniness is expected, it can be enjoyed, so realize that going in.
If you are expecting a profound movie about the meaning of life, you're at
the wrong movie.  If you want an enjoyable way to spend a couple of hours,
you'd be hard pressed to find a better movie currently in the
theatres. 

******
5 April 1999
9

This was an awesome movie. It was well shot, the plot was good, and so was
the dialogue except for a few cheesy throwaway lines. But dialogue is not
what you see a movie for. You see a movie to be entertained, and the Matrix
delivers. It is visually beautiful, and the special effects were absolutely
amazing. The Kung fu scenes were great, and damn, I want Trinity's wardrobe.This movie also does something rare. It makes you wonder. What if there
really is no spoon?Enjoy the movie, if you haven't already seen it. 

******
5 April 1999
8

Setting, general feel and the pacing of this movie are excellent. The movie
starts well and keeps your interest throughout.Sure, the general plot idea has been used by movies and TV for a few years,
but this is the best of the genre of cyberpunk type sci-fi movies bar none
("Strange Days" would be second). 

******
5 April 1999
10

You must see this movie!  The beauty of this movie is that the special
effects and computer animation are not the best part of the movie (although
they are the best we have ever seen).  The story line, the acting and the
unyielding pace are what makes this a great movie. 

******
5 April 1999
8

I saw "The Matrix" on opening day and again three days later.  Any good
movie, especially one as complex in message, plot and visuals, should be
viewed more than once.I was intrigued by the previews for this film the first time I saw them.
They filled me with a lot of questions, mainly, what in the world is this
about?  All of my questions were answered."The Matrix" is one wild ride that makes a person question what is real and
what is the intangible construct of our imagination.  How much of what we
see and experience is the truth, and how much is only our perception of the
data we are bombarded by and required to process every
day?The script was beautifully constructed, the dialog just what was necessary
to relay plot and character.  The performances were a joy to watch, easily
allowing the viewer to suspend disbelief.  The baddies were spooky,
evocative of the mysterious men in black characters traveling in threes that
people into government/alien conspiracy claim really do exist in our world.
The music was so well applied that I barely noticed it (as great soundtracks
should be) as it wove its way though the visuals, underscoring the
mood.I was floored when Mr. Smith (a baddie) commented about humans not fitting
into their environment, being a cancer on the planet.  I've believed this
for years.  Did the writers of this movie read my mind?And, how could I not comment specifically on Keanu Reeves' performance.
I've enjoyed his work for quite some time.  In this movie, as in others, he
is excellent at playing confused, misplaced and, in the end, victorious
characters.  As Neo he struggles well with accepting his reality and his
place in the scheme of things.  I'd give his performance in this, on a scale
of one to ten (10 being the best), about an 8 1/2.Lawrence Fishburn was enthralling as the rather somber, patient, nurturing
mentor, Morpheus.  Carrie-Anne Moss was wonderful as Trinity.  The rest of
the supporting cast rounded out the film with style."The Matrix" reminded me of other films I enjoyed: "Johnny Mnemonic" (in
which the main character was also 'plugged-in') and "Dark
City".I truly enjoyed this movie, and when it's available on video I'll add it to
my very selective collection of special movies to enjoy over and over.What is real and what is imagined?  Maybe this review only exists in my
mind.  Maybe this movie is only a construct of my warped fantasies.  If
that's the case, I invite you in to share it. 

******
5 April 1999
10

The Matrix, ahh now what a piece of work.  After a massive stomp at the
box-office the film Matrix is sure to be a hit.  This movie makes the Star
Wars wait seem like nothing.  It brings you right into the middle of it.  It
is so incredible, invincibly awesome that you will see it time and time
again.  Keeanu Reeves gives off a spetactular performance (that new huh) in
this sci-fi futuristic action thriller.  This film is sure to be a momentous
occasion that may take away some of the Star Wars hype, "What??" you say.
Put it this way, we have seen 3 Star Wars already and soon 3 more are coming
out.  I couldn't wait for Star Wars until I saw this movie, now I can't wait
till I see the Matrix again!

******
5 April 1999
8

I had read the April issue of American Cinematographer prior to seeing this
movie, so I had a good idea of how the effects and camera work in The Matrix
were going to look.  Even so, I was truly blown away by the seamless
integration of slow-motion, fast-motion, real time, and CGI work in this
picture.  The camera and effects crews did a great job.  They picked the
perfect pacing to match the intricate kung-fu and gun fight scenes.  They
made my heart slow down, speed up, and stop right along with the action,
which was amazing.  The action scenes in The Matrix are top notch, and make
the movie worth seeing just be themselves.The story on the other hand could have used some work.  I was let down by
the weak ending, and the plot tended to drag in places.  There was a lot of
background information that needed to be relayed to the audience, and this
is where the movie tended to crawl.  The dialogue was uninventive in its
attempt to be pithy, and the over-the-top acting of Laurence Fishburne was a
bit much.  Keanu Reeves does put in a terrific performance, one of the
better performances of his I've seen in an action film, maybe only topped by
Speed.  This film works in the same genre as Johnny Mnemonic, and Reeves'
performance is ten times better in The Matrix.  The rest of the supporting
cast played their roles, but nothing to write home about.  The character of
Agent Smith was played well by Hugo Weaving, but again, the dialogue he was
given tended to get in the way of that.Overall, The Matrix is well worth the money to see.  The action scenes are
top-notch and breakthrough, and the holes in the plot are easily forgotten
in light of the effects.  I recommend seeing it in a THX theater, it will
definitely heighten the experience. 

******
5 April 1999
10

I saw this movie on opening weekend - the crowds were out the door. Between
the Keanu fans and the fans of the "weird sci-fi" genre... the showing was
packed.
I at first expected another "Johnny Neumonic" but what I saw was a mature
Keanu that has finally found his niche.
The movie is well written and the main plot unfolds to explore all the
subplots in the story. The audenice was captivated at the writers ability to
incorporate humor, emotion and pure mechanoid behaviour without making it
too techno.
This has got to be the best movie to incorporate new-age special effects...trust me, it makes you go oooh and aahhh!!. The contrast between L.
Fishburne and Keanu was well thought out and the "real" fight scenes are
impressive. As the viewer in front of me said " He could out fight Jackie
Chan with those moves".
I would not recommend this movie to those who suffer epileptic fits or those
who prefer to be trippy while watching sci-fi...the quick movemnts in these
fight scenes make both your eyes and your stomach jump.
I would definitely go see it again.

******
5 April 1999
10

I was expecting The Matrix to be a two hour special effects show, something
I wasn't exactly opposed to (I love special effects).  But I found it
instead to be an excellently put-together intellectual film, with plenty of
twists to keep your mind whirling.  I truly enjoyed it, and I'll be sure to
see it again! 

******
5 April 1999
10

To anyone who hasn't seen "The Matrix" who is thinking about it, I urge you,
go in completely cold. Don't allow yourself to know a THING about the plot
before you watch it, you'll lose the impact if you do. The special effects
are great, the action sequences are cool, and the acting is sharp. But to
really APPRECIATE "The Matrix," you can't let yourself know what the story
is beforehand. The trailers for this movie are perfect -- they let you see
the eye candy without telling you what's going on: all you need to know
before you watch it. Just remember what Morpheus says in the trailer:
"Nobody can be told what the Matrix is." Go in, watch it and prepare to get
blown away.
Keanu Reeves has come a VERY long way since his days as Ted Theodore
Logan. Between this, "The Devil's Advocate" and "Speed," I think he's shown
that he is a major player in Hollywood. Laurence Fishburne is great as the
"Jedi master" character who's responsible for Keanu's transformation into a
hero, and Carrie-Anne Moss is not only cute, but capable of kicking some
serious butt in her own right.
If you go to the movies for action or special effects, check out "The
Matrix." Warner Bros is finally starting to make good movies
again. 

******
5 April 1999
7

If John Woo and James Cameron (pre-Titanic) conspired to make a film, it
would likely look like this!  Noir-punk at it's finest!  The martial arts
and gunfights are strictly Hong Kong visual poetry.  The special effects and
action stars are in-your-face Hollywood.It is an interesting mix that has failed before because of the diluting
effect each genre has on the other.  (The Replacement Killers, Hard Target,
and The Corruptor come to mind.)  But The Matrix has the good sense to keep
the genres in their own sphere of expertise.  When it's a martial arts scene,
the action is pure Sonny Chiba or Sammo Hung.  When the special effects
occur the audience gets served a helping of eye-popping big-budget
CGI.The Matrix is sure to become a sci-fi favorite like Terminator 2, Predator,
or Blade Runner.

******
5 April 1999
7

Don't get me wrong. This is a great guy flick and I like guy films as much
as the next guy. The Wachowski Brothers do a remarkable job combining sfx
with kung-fu and 8mms. The premise even creeped me out (and that's good!).
My main problem was these glaring plot holes. In order to turn this film
into a Blade Runner type classic sci-fi
film, the filmmakers would have had to not give in to the Hollywood
mentality that movies must end on a hopeful note, heroes must win, etc.The movie's ending left a very bad taste in my mouth (kind of like battery
acid). Too bad because I liked all the sfx and fights. Cool
stuff.
My ending is not the kind of ending to pull in audiences, but it certainly
would have been more honest. If the producers had been honest with us and
themselves, I would probably given the film another point or
two.

******
5 April 1999
9

The Matrix represents the vision of so-called Generation X. We twenty and
thirty-somethings have, each one of us, walked the Cyper-path in its
earliest dust-covered incarnations, (even if that means we only dabbled
with
hallucinogens and techno-music), always dreaming of the time when
technology
would provide the world with the capability of *becoming* the video game.
This movie is Virtual Reality as Descartes and other 'brain in a vat'
enthusiasts would have it.  And the eye candy in this film
puts
Titanic to shame.


******
5 April 1999
7

Well, what can I say but this was a wild movie.
I saw it today for the first time and am wondering how much more I will
like
it when I see it again.
Good movie with great effects and a very interesting plot.

******
5 April 1999
10

I have to say, this was one of the most intricate movie plots that I have
ever seen, but I liked it because it was different.  The special effects
are
amazing.  The "Bullet Time" thing was really cool. (it took 2 years to
perfect!)  Keanu Reeves was pretty good, and Carrie-Anne Moss looked
awesome
in that black outfit!  Laurence Fishburne did great playing Morpheus.  I
recommend this movie to anyone!  10/10

******
5 April 1999
10

Probably not... But I am seriously considering the match-up. Phantom
Menace
has got a lot to live up to, and *I* would be pleasantly surprised if it's
as visually appealing as The Matrix.This movie is so graphically stunning, I would be shocked if it didn't get
some kind of award. I put my word on the line and asked some coworkers to
join me & my friends to watch this opening night, and everyone totally
loved
it = big brownie points4me.Definitely go see this in a packed audience, you'll feel like cheering and
clapping the whole way through.My rating = 9/10

******
5 April 1999
10

This film is brilliant. The pace is fast, the visuals are simply stunning,
but most of all the set piece action sequences just took my breath
away.There is lots of homage to all the great action directors: the plot is
basically Terminator, there is much use of John Woo's 2 guns crossed over,
the shootout scene is reminiscent of Heat and the whole design concept is
somewhere between the 5th Element and Brazil. But don't be fooled into
thinking this is just a rip off: the Wachowski's are clearly influenced
and
pay tribute to these directors, but have a very individual style of their
own.And everyone wears sunglasses! ALL THE TIME!!!Stop reading right now and get yourselves down to the local cinema to see
this masterpiece.

******
5 April 1999
10

This film is one of the best I have seen!  I had no idea that Andy
Wachowski
and Larry Wachowski could make such high-quality sci-fi cinema!  Not only
does The Matrix have a truly inventive plot and amazing special effects,
but it has other factors that make it so good.  One of the things few
people
might not notice is their (the film makers') great attention to detail,
especially in reflections!  There are times when there are close-ups of
Lawrence Fishburne and when he looks directly at the camera, you don't see
crew, camera, equipment or anything.  Another aspect that makes this film
such a marvel is the great usage of slow motion.  One of the best scenes
in
the whole movie is when Neo and Trinity are shooting the SWAT team in the
limestone corridor of a skyscraper.  The brilliant slow motion shows
debris
flying everywhere and really makes you feel like you are part of the
action.This is the first film in a long time where I have seen the audience clap
at
a scene! Action, drama, sci-fi, comedy, and even
romance is in this movie.  The Matrix has it all.  If you haven't seen it,
you haven't lived.

******
5 April 1999
8

The Matrix kicked much a**.  This movie kicked so much a** that even Keanu
Reeves looked good.  Laurence Fishburne was, in his usual under-stated
way,
cool, and yet, effective.  Carrie-Ann Moss (Trinity) gave the movie a
reason
to watch, besides all the a**-kicking, of which she had no small
part.The highlight of the movie was when Neo wakes up from his combat training
session and blurts out, "I know kung fu."Does anyone know what brand/where to find the sunglasses that Morpheus was
wearing?

******
5 April 1999
9

I really enjoyed this film, not because it did anything outstanding, but
just because it presented a decent story with exhilarating special effects
and Keanu Reeves (!)
martial arts action.The film presents us with a scenario which forces us to ask what reality
consists of and how we know that what we see, feel and sense are true
representations of the world.The fuzzy line between solid reality and the human-centered perceptions of
dreamtime or virtual reality get twisted into a grim future scenario where
the slaves enjoy the bounties and the 'free' subsist on whatever they can
scavenge.The film glorifies the hackers, those who believe in freedom on principle,
believing that individuals have the power to change their realities and
good
old fashioned chop-socky  (albeit, with quite a few nods to the mortal
kombat ilk of arcade games)I was thoroughly entertained and plan on seeing it again real
soon!


******
5 April 1999
10

I love good Sci-Fi. Trouble is, to be really good Sci-Fi, it has to be
original...something to make you think. It should make you wonder, "Could
this happen?" The Matrix is such a movie.All too often these days, directors rely on dazzling special effects to
carry a plot with no interest to anyone. Well, this movie has all the
dazzle, as well as sizzling performances by all the cast. But the
highlight
to me was the plot...slowly pulling you in, detail by detail, until you
are
totally consumed. Pure entertainment!If your a real Sci-Fi fan, you'll love "The Matrix". If not, you'll
probably
wonder what all the fuss is about.

******
5 April 1999
10

This is a well-rounded movie. It has ground breaking special effects that
do
not appear to be forced into the plot just because they are cool. It has
an
intelligent plot that has you thinking throughout the story. It has action
to rival all the formula Hollywood 'chase scenes.' It's a movie you'll
want
on DVD. Fast action, mental concepts, high tech. No gore. No nudity. How
did
this get through Hollywood. Way to go Warner.

******
5 April 1999
10

Although not perfect, the Matrix seamlessly integrates other classic scifi
staples (Terminator, Aliens, Tron???) into a solid tale of paranoia and
god-like transcendence.

******
5 April 1999
10

Better than T2, as good as Apocalypse Now, better than Dark City.  I have
now seen it twice and will surely see it again in the theatre at least one
more time.  I was fully entertained, no boring parts.  The music was
perfectly selected.  This movie makes my top 10 list easily.  The effects,
while cutting-edge, are not superior to the plot, the style, the
cinematography, or the action scenes. Oodles of scenes that will make you
say "How the hell did they film THAT!?"  If you like martial arts, this is
simply tantalizing.  If you like existentialism, this movie will more than
satisfy.  If you are into hard-core whoop-a** action, few better movies
exist.  This movie is so well made, I felt that my ticket price was so
cheap, I would pay to see it 5 more times and feel like I got a bargain.
The few conceptual flaws, which I root out of every movie, are
inconsequential and detract nothing from the flick.  Keanu's agent should
get a huge raise, for he could have done nothing better to redeem Keanu's
reputation.  Keanu's typical dead-pan and poor acting are actually ideal
for
this role.  If there is one non-X-rated movie I would have liked to be a
part of, this is it.  Go and see this with a diaper on! 

******
5 April 1999
10

The Matrix portrays a futuristic concept that forces its audience to
question his/her reality. It doesn't serve up a mere effect ridden action
flick on a platter but rather brings the audience on a fantastic ride that
leaves the special effects coming in second to a profound storyline that
will leave you breathless. It's always nice to see a movie that
isn't
predictable but instead offers suspense and anticipation.

******
5 April 1999
10

This film is absolutely fantastic.  There isn't a single shot that is
lacking in perfection.  Every angle, every captivating scene carries with
it
a powerful sense of wisdom and spiritual enlightenment.  I commend each
and
every actor for working to bring forth such a beautiful performance.
Their
hard work and dedication to this project has paid off, without a doubt.
The
witty dialogue and nearly flawless storyline, the magnificently executed
fight scenes, the awe-inspiring implementation of the latest visual
effects
technology -- all of these elements join forces, blasting the minds of the
viewers with a powerful wake up call.  The world is YOURS.  The choice is
ALWAYS yours.  You will see exactly what you believe, for all of eternity.
Thank you, Larry and Andy Wachowski.

******
5 April 1999
10

To tell any portion of the plot of this movie is to give away too much.
All
I will say is that even Keanu Reeves could not ruin the quality of this
film.  For once an action flick with a plot that wasn't brainless.  Go see
this. It is worth the ticket!

******
5 April 1999
10

A great movie!  I have seen Dark City, Bound, Hackers, The Crow, and Johnny
Mnemonic.  If you liked all or any of these movies I highly recommend The
Matrix.Keanu Reeves gives one of his best performances along with a great cast.
This was not a "Supporting" cast in my opinion as they each brought
something of their own into the vision of this movie.Among them, Belinda Mcclory whom I believe was a wonderful addition to the
cast.  She brought a bit of attitude and beauty to the screen.  Plus, she
made herself stand-out in one seen while everyone was wearing black, she
wore white.  That's style.And I think that pretty much sums up "The Matrix."  Style. 

******
5 April 1999
8

Enjoyed this film enormously.  First chosen for Keanu Reeves, followed by an
interest in special-effects and computers, this movie was a visual treat.
The martial arts scenes were spectacular, the use of stop action to pan
technique was not overused.  The contrasts between the inner world of the
Matrix and the 'real' world were effective. While some of the scenarios were a little outrageous, enjoy with an open mind -
after all you aren't a sentient program and the rules don't apply to
you.

******
5 April 1999
10

By far the sweetest action/sci-fi/special effects flick I've seen in a
good,long time.  The acting is superb (especially by the
ever-under-appreciated Laurence Fishburne) and the special effects are...
Well you saw the trailers, right?
Despite the title, fans of William Gibson and Shadowrun won't be nearly as
impressed/inspired by this one as players of White Wolf's "Mage"
role-playing game.  But if you have any love of science fiction at all, go
watch this one.  I'm gonna buy it when it comes out. 

******
5 April 1999
9

After seeing previews of this film, I knew I would want to see it, just for
the special effects.  But I also thought it would be a horrible film, mostly
because of Keanu starring in it.  I was pleasantly surprised.  Other than a
relatively weak premise, the Matrix delivers astounding visuals, intense
action (great hand-to-hand combat scenes), tasteful to skilled acting, and
(most surprisingly )a thought provoking story-line.  This is one movie that
is best when seen with no previous knowledge.  So go see it. You will
definitely be entertained.

******
5 April 1999
9

Very few contemporary science fiction movies truly capture my imagination
anymore. One too many Starship Troopers and Aliens 19 ("Momma Gets
Menopause") paste-together computer graphics extravaganzas have been shoved
down my throat for me to readily suspend disbelief and, for a short ninety
minutes, "witness the future". The Matrix has renewed my faith in a genre
that seemed to be, at best, treading water waiting for Master Lucas to save
the decade.To begin, the action --as you probably would expect from the previews-- is
steely, breakneck, and plausible (given the premise of The Matrix... which I
won't give away!). What makes it all the more enjoyable is seeing the actors
handling the high-kicking, twirling, leaping duties themselves --a lot of
individual work and dedication has gone into this movie. And here I though
Keanu Reeves was only barely agile enough to surf (see Point
Break)....Next, the special effects were... well, special. I don't think it will be a
major spoiler to tell you that the freeze-frame panning effect made famous
by a certain chinos ad is put to good --but not gratuitous-- use. When the
time comes to break out the Silicon Graphics workstations' goodies, they are
seamlessly integrated into the plot rather than thrust before us as if to
apologize for the steep ticket prices in today's theaters.Ah, but then comes the good stuff: the Matrix itself. The plot's core
premise HAS been done before, but not, in my recollection, to such striking
effect and with such clever evasiveness during the build-up to disclosure. I
am an old-school sci-fi buff; I thought, smugly, that I knew what was going
on after the first thirty minutes... perhaps the greatest delight of The
Matrix was my being proved wrong! I will come as close to a spoiler as I can
by saying "cyberpunk" was NEVER so dark as this story!In closing, The Matrix is a well-crafted, gripping story starring two
easily-disregarded principles who go far to prove that "they're not just for
breakfast anymore". It comes alive through stunning visuals, a surprising
premise, and a fast-paced ride to its conclusion. The only thing driving me
to give it a 9 instead of a 10 is that NO ONE should be called "The Chosen
One" in anymore movies, stories, novellas, epic poems, religious tracts, or
political pamphlets! Ever again! PLEASE!The Mad Czar Fnord


******
5 April 1999
10

What is reality? This question has perplexed philosophers for years and
years and now we finally have an answer in The Matrix. This action/sci-fi
film combines the best aspects of action with a psychological and
philosophical edge sharp enough to cut through the fabric of reality into
another dimension. Cutting edge special effects make this movie all the more
ethereal, pulling the audience into a world we never knew or imagined.
Definitely a must see. The only downer is that the movie is another shot at
a humanity that will destroy itself with technology. Nonetheless, go see the
movie! You'll never look at the world in the same way again. 

******
5 April 1999
10

Nearly every aspect of this movie was impressive.  The plot was internally
self-consistent, there was no problem with suspension of disbelief, and it
had a workable premise.  As a pure SF movie, it worked well.  As a cool
story it flowed nicely.  As an action movie, there was not a pause in the
rush.  It had no gratuitous sex, and all the violence was an integral part
of the plot line.  The FX were entirely apropos to the story, and worked
seamlessly.  I intend to watch it again this week, and to purchase the DVD
on its release date.I expect the critics panned it because it either disagreed with some aspect
of their personal taste, or (more likely) because it wasn't simplistic easy
to swallow pablum.


******
5 April 1999
7

I thought this movie was great. I loved it. Younger viewers might not like
its involving story but will be blown away by its inventive action
sequences. Its the best action/sci-fi movie I've seen in a long time, and
liked it better than Dark City. The special effects blew me away, and it had
a story to match. Something you don't see with most Hollywood shoot em' up
action movies. I like Keanu Reeves (not a huge fan) but I just thought he
just didn't look comfortable on the screen like he did in other movies like
Speed. Laurence Fishburn was good as the mysterious Morpheus, and the woman
who played Trinity.The Matrix - * * * 1/2

******
5 April 1999
9

As many others have written, this is simply an awesome film, combining
high-intensity action, spectacular graphics, and lots-o-cool with a real,
meaningful plot.As I examine obvious and subtle aspects, it becomes clear that The Matrix is
an artistic-liberty retelling of the Gospel (i.e. The Bible, chapters
Matthew, Mark, Luke & John). From the character names (Trinity, Neo [new
man], etc.), the plot (this world is not fully real; arrival and actions of
a messiah), to even the title ("matrix" is an old-english term used in the
Old Testament for "womb"), this spectacular cybertale is grounded in the old
and still-relevant central story of scripture.Also interesting is that this is the third film (alongside The Truman Show
and Dark City) in a year that feature our hero discovering he lives within a
false reality, and struggles to escape. Even better is that all three films
are excellent.


******
5 April 1999
10

Wow. This movie really makes you think. Extremely entertaining, amazing
special effects, and the music is great. I hope this movie starts a whole
new way of making movies.
The Matrix is "Most Excellent"! 

******
5 April 1999
10

I have seen this film 3 times in 3 days and I'm in awe each time. The
Japanimation style the directors were shooting for came across brilliantly.
The best visual effect is the still rotations that I just couldn't get
enough of.This film goes from mystery to confusion to despair to amazement and all the
time keeps your blood racing with intense VFX and action sequences. It's
also about time a late 90s film had a compelling plot.This movie is like Dark City meets Hackers meets Ghost in the Shell. It
keeps you on the edge of your seat the whole time. If you like action,
sci-fi, or just any well-done movie, this one is a must-see.

******
5 April 1999
10

If you like a shoot-'em-up film with amazing martial arts and constant
action, then "The Matrix" is for you. If you're looking for an
edge-of-your-seat techo-thriller, bursting at the seams with the latest
special effects, then "The Matrix" is for you. I recommend the third-row.
And if you're in that small (but proud) group that wants something to get
the old brain saying "What if...?" then "The Matrix" is definitely for you.
"The Matrix" is deep enough for Descartes, but chock-full of enough
brain-candy to keep even the most distractible viewer glued to his seat.
Whatever your interests, "The Matrix" will having you talking and wondering
all the way home. A mix of new technology, old philosophy, and awesome
special effects makes "The Matrix" the best film I've seen in
years! 

******
5 April 1999
10

This is one of the great movies I have seen. The special effects are state
of the art and some the best I have seen. The story line is a real teaser
and fun to see in action. It leaves a opening for another movie but this
won't be an easy shoe to fill. The actors fill their parts and it looks as if
they put a great deal of effort in to this movie. A must see for any science
fiction or action fan.

******
5 April 1999
10

This movie just rocks! It just passed The Fifth Element as my favorite
sci-fi flick of all time. If you haven't read anything about the plot,
please don't! It was so cool to figure out the plot with the protagonist,
Neo. I was truly awestruck. This movie has martial arts, gunfights,
philosophy, humor, a little bit of romance, a whole lot of heroism, and an
enemy that everyone living on this planet can justifiably hate without
remorse. If you don't like ickiness, the worst part (I think) is right after
Neo demands a phone call while being interrogated; so close your eyes for a
few minutes. Blech. Anyway, do go and see this movie, but remember, it's
just a movie. Movie producers are not the philosopher-kings of this world.
You may be highly disturbed if you don't remember this after
watching.

******
5 April 1999
7

All of the speculation about Keanu Reeves' acting ability are basically
irrelevant to this film, since it really hasn't much to do with whether he
can act--he isn't asked to do much acting.  It's 90% about the gorgeous,
fascinating effects, which really drive the plot and are the true star.
(Though Joe Pantoliano once again proves himself interesting and gifted.)
This film is just for fun, and very satisfying for a dyed-in-the-wool sci fi
fan.  The obvious sequel set-up was okay with me; I'll go to see
it. 

******
5 April 1999
10

This was the most satisfying action/scifi movie I have seen in quite some
time. The few minor story/character flaws can't take away from the amazing
action sequences and beautiful look of the film. Keanu and Lawrence
Fishburne do an impressive job of imitating my favorite Kung Fu stars and
the soundtrack rocks! 

******
5 April 1999
9

I was impressed.  My roommate and I, at the time performing air-Ju-Jit-Zu,
came home from the Matrix trying to run perpendicular to the ground.  I'm
sure if we lived close to a gun range (not really that readily available in
New York City), we would have insisted on target practice while wearing
sunglasses and trenchcoats.That being said, the Matrix may fete the testosterone of adolescent teens
and immature yuppies, but one can actually find layers of irony and myth in
this speciously skin deep sci-fi flick.First, consider the whole premise of the film, evil supercomputers enslave
humanity through an algorithmically generated world known as the Matrix.
What appears real, is unreal with the very nature of existence challenged -
kind of like Descartes' all-powerful monster theory to debunk the
reliability of his senses and therefore existence itself.  Then we have a
rag tag band of rebels led by a mysterious but unquestionably faithful
Morpheus (Fishburne), the god of dreams in Ovid's Metamorphoses, who awakens
enslaved humans from their captivity of sleep.  Our hero, Thomas (Reaves),
like the Biblical Doubting Thomas, is leery of his fate as the chosen One.
He is  prophesized by the Oracle -- yes, like the one at Delphi -- to lead
humans to freedom and see the rise of the last remaining human colony, Zion.
Our plucky heroes are aided by the stunningly gorgeous Trinity (Moss)
travel on a beat up space craft ironically named Nebuchadnezzar, a
Babylonian king who destroyed Jerusalem and took kings and nobles captive in
the Babylonian Captivity.  Wow!  Confused, yet?But, have no fear.  For those who like myth as much as income tax, there is
also, Hong Kong-style Kung-Fu, slick fashion, lots of guns, and a pulsating
soundtrack that features Marilyn Manson.  Eclectic does not even begin to
describe the Matrix.The acting is competent, and with the bevy of special effects it becomes
difficult to notice.  Keanu Reaves is surprisingly competent, but then again
he is supported by the always majestic Larry Fishburne, and beautiful
newcomer Carry Ann Moss.  With so many themes addressed by the Wachowski
brothers, the Matrix could have easily over-committed itself.  Luckily, with
some incredible editing, this film has all the earmarks of a runaway
box-office hit.  I hope it makes a bundle.


******
5 April 1999
10

This is one of those movies that, if you're a big sci-fi fan, you just wish
you could jump into.  The technology level in the movie is enough to drop a
computer nut's jaw through the floor.  The premise of the movie is terrific,
and like the Truman Show did, makes you wonder if this just might be true.
The special effects are astounding, and while they appear a lot in the
movie, aren't over done in the least.  And I hope that Keanu Reeves finally
discovers that Sci-Fi/cyberpunk is his thing.  With The Matrix complimenting
his performance in Johnny Mnemonic, he's broken through as an excellent
actor in this field.Over all, excellent, 3 1/2 out of 4, and definitely a must see
again. 

******
5 April 1999
9

There are two names behind THE MATRIX, one which made me interested, and one
which gave me pause.  The one that made me interested is the Wachowski
brothers, who made the highly entertaining 1996 thriller BOUND.  The one
which gave me pause is Joel Silver, whose movies seem to function primarily
as a way to pound people into submission.  Happily, THE MATRIX represents
the sensibilities of the former more than the latter.  The ideas it throws
out in this film are similar to last year's DARK CITY, and this is more or
less a high-octane version of that, but it's entertaining, and the
philosophy doesn't get in the way of the story.  The only time it gets to be
like a Joel Silver movie is at the climax, when it becomes overkill.  Still,
this is the most fun I've had at the movies this year so
far. 

******
5 April 1999
8

If seeing the latest special effects offered by Hollywood is your thing and
you can't wait for 'The Phantom Menace' then seeing 'The Matrix' is
mandatory. As a genre film I was prepared to call it a near-masterpiece...
until what is perhaps the most contrived, most used solution to solve the
hero-in-big-trouble crisis moment appeared... then it took 10 minutes to
forget that moment... during the climax. Ignore that ultimate-cliche moment
and it's a great story. The bad guys are the ultimate 'Men In Black,' Reeves
comes as close as he ever has to credible acting and Fishburne is solid as
always. A sci-fi must-see. 

******
5 April 1999
10

Great concept.  Not totally realistic, but close enough to be lots of fun to
think about and make it a great story.  Incredible action sequences.  I'd
say it's pretty much the best movie ever, especially if you like Sci-Fi and
Action. 

******
5 April 1999
10

The Matrix is destined to be a science fiction -if not a cult- classic.
Stunning
special effects, hip storyline, stylish cinematography, and action
sequences
brought directly from Asian Cinema. Everything is perfectly put
together.While there are some small holes in the plot (not surprisingly, in character 
development) they don't diminish the movie at all. Behind it there's a
moral:
You control your own destiny. And that's a plus, putting aside the 
entertainment.A breathtaking experience.

******
5 April 1999
10

The Matrix explodes onto the screens in a way that is truly great.  The
movie takes ideas from The Terminator, Alice In Wonderland, Men In Black,
Kung Fu, Star Wars, Aliens, and Blade Runner.  The directors have taken the
key ideas from these movies, and have told a tale that has you second
guessing your own mortality and sense of reality.  Are we all just slaves of
a higher functioning system on this planet?  Will we (man) ultimately create
something that will ultimately destroy us?  If so, how can we combat a foe
we don't know exists?
While the end of this film undoubtedly sets up movies for the rest of the
series. The one thing that would do this new, and wonderful film franchise
justice is to take a page from George Lucas's book.  Do a couple sequels
that tell of the downfall of this heinous enemy.  Then, after that is
complete follow-up with a prequel that tells the audience how man got to be
in this situation.
The movie is a ride from start to finish.  While most people will go to
see The Matrix for its action.  The best part of the whole movie comes
about when Agent Smith is holding Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) captive in a
skyscraper.  Agent Smith talks about the way things are in the eyes of the
computer.  How we humans are just like viruses that go from area to area
infecting all that we touch.
The Matrix has a powerful message and is definitely the only movie 
worth seeing this year.  While it will not make "Star Wars-Episode 1" money.
The story is truly magnificant and probably the only movie people will
remember from this year, save one, Star Wars.

******
4 April 1999
9

Well, that quote in the preview, "you have to see it for yourself" worked on
me; I went and saw it. But still I went only expecting those great digital
effects, and not much in the way of a plot. I even wondered if all that
computer generated imagery there for no other reason than to dazzle the eye.
Boy, was I ever wrong! This sci-fi thriller had a great storyline, written
and directed by two brothers. Think of it having a dark reality like in
Blade Runner, yet the action and adventure of Die Hard. Great effects,
unique sci-fi quirks, and an AI Agent so rotten you're glad to get to the
end of the movie just so you can see him get killed off! Unfortunately, I
cannot give away the storyline... you have to see it for
yourself! 

******
4 April 1999
9

I could say a billion things about this movie that made it excellent to
watch.......  First of all when I was driving home that night after watching
the movie I started to think, boy what if all this was an actual occurrence
in our natural, everyday, boring, yet sophisticated life?  I don't know
about you, but when I watch a movie and it makes me think the way I did that
night, I knew that that was an excellent movie!
Watch this movie, if you like stright forward movies, unlike titles like "The
Devils Advocate," in which Al Pacino really screws with your head, then
watch this movie.  Think for a moment that you are just a figment of a
computers hard drive, and that your whole existence is fake, and your only
source of confort in the end is that you might die some day. Wow, this movie
has turned me into some buddist monk contemplating different scenarios with
alternate possibilities.
Watch this movie, you won't regret it.

******
4 April 1999
10

The Matrix is glossy & exciting, with just the right mix to make it
successful - even if the plot weren't as good as it is. But, anyone who sees
The Matrix as just another "action movie" is missing the point. I dug the
whole revolutionary, theological subtext. At a critical point, Laurence
Fishburne's character tells Keanu Reeves' that the Matrix is everywhere, and
that the "agents" could be anyone. You could easily dismiss this as the
paranoid rantings of a man who's been running too long. But, when he
complains that it's hard to save the regular folks because so many of them
are totally dependent on the Matrix, I had flashbacks to Malcolm X, Marcus
Garvey, W.E.B. DuBois... Whatever the arena, the revolutionary's main
problem is always the same. Not how to fight the system, but how to wake up
the people.I am Muslim, but we share a belief in the return of Jesus (peace be upon
him), so I also dug the Revelations references sprinkled throughout. From
the names - Trinity... to the gestures (look for the "Last Supper" on a
tray)... to the longing for "Zion"... to the moment of doubt (on a ledge
this time), it was movie-making at it's best. Poetically referential, this
is the kind of movie you have to see more than once. And, each time, you'll
pick up a different layer.If all that's too deep for you, you'll still cheer for the special effects,
and the tight plot deserves an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay (ala "The
Usual Suspects"). The kung fu is "all that" and the directing is sweet, with
a little flavor from Bruce Lee, Al Capone, John Wayne, Arnold Schwarzenegger
- and a dash of Muhammad Ali (check out Laurence's moves when he spars with
Keanu).Loved it. Loved it. Loved it. 


******
4 April 1999
7

I thought the movie to be very entertaining, but see it for what it is. You
aren't going to be emotionally moved by it. It's rather a gun-toting special
effects monster. Keanu Reeves was a bit of a disappointment.  The plot was
familiar, the evil artificial intelligence vs. the humans, but original in
its own way. Up until the final bit of cheesiness at the end, I enjoyed it
the whole way through.

******
4 April 1999
10
...Everyone but people who don't like to think and don't enjoy stunning
visuals and action scenes. The plot could be described as "the exact
opposite of the Lawnmower Man," and the feel of the film is strangely
similar to the computer game Half-Life.If you're the thinking type, The Matrix will leave you wondering for quite a
while. The all-inclusive plot and expert exposition are really the heart of
the film. Rarely does one see movies so well-thought-out and believable in
general release. Not only does this film take you on a mental trip, it makes
you think for yourself. If you're sick of all the condescending and
unimaginative SF films of the last few years, this is the
cure.If, on the other hand, you like to be blown away by startling shots and
powerful fights, The Matrix has you covered. The crew has done a great job
of creating an immersive environment that both dazzles and frightens. The
painfully tedious world of the Matrix and the post-apocalyptic Real World
are both rendered with great detail. The action, which seems to
unfortunately get the spotlight in many reviews, is, of course, fantastic.
You'll get the feeling that you're watching a video game as the characters
duke it out. The crazy moves that "bend" the laws of physics will keep your
eyes glued to the screen.All in all, this was one of the most believable SF movies I've seen in a
long time. When you see all the hard work that went into this movie (as
opposed to the half-a$$ed [or less] ones with which we're inundated), you'll
know it was worth the ticket price. Plus it's exciting! If you can't follow
it, at least you can just stare and have a good time. 

******
4 April 1999
10

What is 'The Matrix'?  Well part of that you have to find out for yourself,
but the other part I can tell you.  'The Matrix' is, by far, the best Sci-Fi
movie in the last 15 years.  Do you remember the feeling you had while
watching George Lucas's 'Star War'?  If you do, then that is the feeling you
get when watching 'The Matrix'.'The Matrix' is a film concept by the Wachowski Bros.  Right from the start
you are blown away.  The special effects immediately grab you.  As does the
martial arts fighting.  But, the exception to this is that 'The Matrix'
doesn't take the fighting or effects overboard.  Right when you think the
battle will never end, the film gos right back into the story of discovery.
Even the story, by itself, is enough to keep you watching.  And, right when
the movie slows down, it speeds right back up again.  This movie is contrast
used in perfect form.The stars themselves are an eyeful.  Keanu Reeves plays Neo, the chosen.  To
be honest, I have never really liked Reeves.  I never thought he had the
talent to be a great actor, and, although his acting isn't perfect, he does
play the part perfectly.  Laurence Fishburne plays Morpheus, Neo's guide
into the world of 'The Matrix'.  I have always loved Fishburne.  He is smart
and plays the knowledgeable leader perfectly.  Carrie-Anne Moss plays
Trinity.  Her character, at first glance, is not that important, but, as the
movie goes on, you understand just how vital she is to the story.  One more
character to point out is Hugo Weaving's Agent Smith.  He is as menacing as
he is dark, and that is saying a lot.I won't dwell on this too long, but I must say that this movie is almost
revolutionary in a sense.  I don't want to tell you the plot, and to go on
and on about the effects would be boring.  But, what you must know, is that
'The Matrix' is perfect from start to finish.  You will not want it to end.
You will want to go back for more.  What is 'The Matrix', you ask...Well as
in the words of Morpheus, "No one can be told what the Matrix is, you have
to see it for yourself."

******
4 April 1999
8

Every good thing you hear about this movie is true.  The special effects are
amazing and Keanu doesn't talk much.  Any bad thing you hear is just someone
who just didn't get it.  The plot is simple: take one part Terminator, one
part Total Recall and two parts any movie like Dark City or 12 Monkeys or
that Star Trek episode where they fight at the O K Corral.  There are
weaknesses in dialogue but not enough to be bothersome, but the story is
good solid sci-fi.  What is the Matrix?  It's everywhere and
everything--simply, it's a computer program, but really it's not that
simple: watching the characters learn to understand that is two-thirds of
the movie AND THAT'S NOT A BAD THING.  We watch them learn and what we learn
about what's happened to their world in the mean time is interesting enough
to keep your mind wondering where all this is going.  Another reason to go
out and get a DVD player..... 

******
4 April 1999
10

It's what you pay full price to go see!  Fast action martial arts,
techno/freaky sound trak, a make ya think story (Coppertop-thats funny), and
the crowd seemed quite pleased with much giggling and ooohs and aaaahs!
Keanu duzn't have to do too much dramatic acting, and that is a good plus.
The FX are incredabibble--just soooo explative kewl.  Go see it, its
definitely worth the $$Similarities:-Dark City (but way better/makes more sense)-Virtuosity (this compoopter world VR thing)-A Walk in the Clouds(Keanu's sensitive side shows--Haahaa I  make
funny!)

******
4 April 1999
10

I loved this movie.  The special and visual effects were mind-numbing.  The
Wachowski Bros. paid (completely deserved) homage to the some of the best
directors and pictures made this decade.  Movie hits like The Truman Show,
Dark City, Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Hard Boiled, Hard Target, and The
Crow.  Legendary directors like John Woo, James Cameron, Peter Weir, and
Alex Proyas.  This movie had it all.  Great effects, kick ass (and expertly
directed) martial arts fight scenes, exhilarating gun battles, an
unbelievable plot (carried out to perfection), and a paranoia-driven message
that the wool has been pulled over our eyes blinding us from the truth.
Every actor does the role to perfection.  The fight scenes could not get any
better.  I personally didn't want it to end.  The movie was well-done and
the Wachowski Bros. should be proud because this movie was the best sci-fi
action film I've seen since Terminator 2.  If you're looking for an awesome
effects and digitally stunning movie, see this movie as fast as you can.  It
doesn't disappoint.  But don't see it in a cheap theater.  See it where you
can really enjoy every quality and aspect it has to offer.  Two thumbs up!!
Way up!!!!!! Four stars out of four stars. 10 out of 10!  Don't miss
it!

******
4 April 1999
10

Three words:  OH MY GOD!  This movie kicked serious @$$!  I saw it once on
Friday(4.3.99) and again today(4.4.99).  Matrix is my new favorite movie. If
you haven't seen it yet, drop whatever you're doing and get yourself to a
movie theater!  Every aspect of this movie is wonderful!  The martial arts
sequences are INCREDIBLE!  (NO STUNTMEN, ALL DONE BY THE
ACTORS)
The SFX are unbelievable.  GO SEE THIS MOVIE! 

******
4 April 1999
10

For once a big budget studio film with an orignal, and complex science
fiction concept.  The Wachowski Brothers take us into a complete and
imaginative universe all their own and they do so with a kinetic visual
style that will get your heart pumping.  The effects are like nothing you've
seen in any other film.It's a fun comic book video game come to life but it's also much more.  At
its heart, the film has a philosophical message: "Free Your Mind."  See it as
quickly as possible.

******
4 April 1999
10

They REALLY did it this time.  They managed to create a classic SciFi movie
without the fallacies and technical impossibilites of  computer related
movies of late.  A complex plot well executed, excellent acting, SUPERB
visual effects make this an INCREDIBLE film.  If you like ANY science
fiction movie... EVER... go see this, it'll rock your world.Bravo to all involved with the film.. thanks for a masterpiece.

******
4 April 1999
10

I finally got to view this movie and all I can say is excellent.The presentation was great; the movie had me captivated for the start. "The
Matrix" is the best SCI-fi/action movies so far for the
year.This is one of those films that you should see especially if you're into
sci-fi and action films. This film has in something for fan of either
genre.The overall movie was great in my opinion, only problem I had with the plot
was Neo (Reeves) having to get a kiss from Trinity (Moss) to revive him
after he is shot to death by Agent Jones (Taylor).(Don't take my word for it.... go and see it for yourself once or
twice)


******
4 April 1999
10

This is the sort of flick I would produce if I produced flicks.  Keanu,
building on his cyberpunk image from "Johnny Mnemonic" brought in his usual
mix of the styled computer geek with a dash of Japanese-anime style drama
which may very well become the hallmark of this genre to
come.
Perhaps what I like best about these "types" of movies is the constant
dichotomy of gritty, run down holes where the heroes play and the sterile,
fortress-like office environments (not wholly unlike the hole I find myself
in from 9-5.) where the enemy lay.
Finally, this movie may mean the most to you if you've ever buried your head
in a Gibson novel or spent hours of your life digging around the
underpinnings of our beloved Internet.  These movies forspeak a day when the
gearheads of the net become warriors of corporate interest (or worse,) or
rats, scurrying about the sewers under the streets, subverting the
establishment in pursuit of some crusade.Hey, I liked it, and Ms. Moss' wardrobe crew deserves props for the
ultra-spiff outfits.
-Bill.  See you on the net. :) 

******
4 April 1999
9

Great metaphoric view of future society, with hints of millennia past.
Reminds me of Star Wars I (IV) and the transforming possibilities of
humanity.  Excellent concept, great acting and awesome special effects
action scenes.  Appropriate character names Trinity, Neo, et
al.

******
4 April 1999
7

I have to admit.  I had some doubt about this movie and was originally
expecting this flick to have glorified special effects and absolutely no
story whatsoever.  However, I was totally wrong.  The story was beautiful
and well-made!  The effects were not over-played, and were added to only
accentuate the mind-blowing narrative.  The action was stupendous with its
attempt at making realistic anime-style fighting sequences.  The characters
were also memorable and fun.  And this movie makes you think about our
precepts and perception of reality.  Truly, one of my favorite original
sci-fi flicks! 

******
4 April 1999
10

Wow.  Just striking, in every way.  Saw it in a dolby digital theatre and
was blown away by the sounds and images.  An original vision. 

******
4 April 1999
9

Combine engrossing Sci-Fi storytelling with the non-stop action of a martial
arts film, then add a large dose of special effects and you have The Matrix.Set is the distant future, machines have taken over a devastated Earth.
Humans have long-since been enslaved, spending their entire lives suspended
in liquid pods providing energy to the machines.  For their part the
machines have created an artificial reality in which the collective
consciousnesses of Earth's inhabitants reside, The Matrix.  Guess what?
It's patterned after 1999 Earth, and the humans are clueless as to what's
happened to them.But not everybody's in The Matrix.  A rebel band led by Fishburn dash in and
out of it, rescuing humans and searching for their promised Messiah.  One
whom they target is computer programmer Reeves who begins to receive some
very odd communications at his terminal...and thus begins the
story.The Matrix is both a thrill-a-second roller coaster ride, and a skillfully
presented science fiction story.  The story unfolds slowly, as Reeves goes
from complete ignorance of his and humankind's fate, to his destiny
revealed.  The journey's a trip.If you enjoy films like the Terminator, T2, RoboCop, Face/Off, and Blade
Runner definitely go see this film.  If you're a My Dinner with Andre, or
Sleepless in Seattle type, give it a pass. 

******
4 April 1999
9

I just came back from the movie, and the only feeling I have is... "Wow"..
was that great!I went to see the movie with only the TV publicity in mind and a good
comment from a friend, but I didn't really know what the movie was about.
That did it all, I didn't know at all what was going to happen and I was
pleasantly surprised for 2h and more.I have to be honest, I had the last Keanu Reeves' sci-fi movie in mind
(Johnny Mnemonic) so that almost stopped me from going.. believe me, it's
two worlds!This was one of the most original city I've seen. The only movie which is
close to this in terms of feeling would be the movie "Dark City" (1998), but
that one is far superior.I am recommending this movie to all people who likes to be surprised in a
movie, and do like a little sci-fi, even if this is NOT the main attract to
the movie.Laurence Fishburn is good as usual, and Keanu Reeves is like he's
always.Go see it and you won't be disappointed.

******
4 April 1999
10

The Matrix is one of the greatest action suspense sci-fi thrillers I have
ever seen.  The storyline is imaginative and invigorating.  I spent 150
minutes on the edge of my seat, eagerly awaiting more.  I can't wait to see
it again!  It was like wow.  The graphics, and computer imagery were awesome!
I can't wait to see what else cinema will have to offer us in
1999.

******
4 April 1999
7

Don't let the dismal storyline (or Keanu Reeves' notoriously wooden acting)
dissuade you from seeing this movie. It is great fun! Wonderfully
suspenseful, action-packed, and even funny!! The fact that the humor springs
from scenes where the actors deliver their lines in serious-as-a-heart-attack
dead-pan makes it all the more funny. The stars went through physical
training for 6 months and sustained injuries in making this film. If you see
The Matrix, you will have no trouble believing that!

******
4 April 1999
8

(I am French so my english is probably not really good).
When you are leaving the cinema, you are looking everywhere and you are
thinking if what you see is what you get.
I think that "The Matrix" could be a master piece in the "undermind cinema"
as Dark City.
In the beginning you're lost as Keanu Reeves, and you don't understand what's
happening.
Then comes the surprise: the heroes are not some kind of supermen, but just
some people who know the truth, THE REAL TRUTH.
The Matrix brings you into a nightmare, a world ruled by computers, a "ghost
world" where men are virus.
This movie is crossing the boundaries of imagination and really makes you
think about one thing: is the world is true or just a fake.
Keanu Reeves is making a quite good characters (but I think that they could
have cast somebody else).Just free your mind...and try to jump trough this movie.
You will enjoy it.

******
4 April 1999
9
Yes, it's derivative of much better science fiction. And yes, it really has
nothing new to say. And o.k., the script is lousy, occasionally ludicrous.
But fergetaboutit. This film has the best visuals, the best special effects,
the best techno-fight scenes of any movie ever made. As big a step beyond as
the original Star Wars was in its time. Had the plot, script and pacing been
as fine we would be talking All Time Classic. Instead, it is merely
spectacular.  

******
4 April 1999
10

Well worth the 8 bucks, this movie amazes, astounds, and challenges the
viewer to question "What is real"? An almost perfectly executed action
adventure, "The Matrix" SHOULD NOT be missed! 

******
4 April 1999
10
What is The Matrix?You cannot be told - The Matrix is something you have to experience for
yourself.What is reality?  Is it something you can Taste? Feel? Smell?  What if
these senses can be manipulated, and it can be proven that those things you
experience as real are simply constructs - computer programs which stimulate
you just as you would be stimulated by the actual.   What
then?The time then comes to have a different measuring stick for reality.   If
you can be manipulated to believe something is true which is not true, what
other defense is there but to exercise free will - to be able to bend what
happens and how things work to your view of how things should
be.In order to do that, you must understand how things work.  And you must
believe in who you are.These are just some of the themes of this film - an important science
fiction movie masquerading as a John Woo, Hong Kong action-adventure film,
plugged into a video game.  What may be lost the first time you see this is
how The Matrix makes fun of these genres - the main character, a computer
hacker named Neo, goes through the classic kung fu movie arc - from student,
to teacher to master, but then he transcends the game entirely, by finally
holding off his foe with one hand, as he goes to the next level of the game.
This subversive humor plays throughout the movie, as it sneaks up on you
with Big Questions, which resonate more and more in these days of moral
relativity...   for example, currently in the Real World ethnic Albanians
are fleeing Kosovo.  Why?  The U.S. says they're fleeing Serbian ethnic
cleansing.  The Serbs say they're fleeing NATO bombing.  Who's right?  Ask
the people fleeing!In order to be able to find the answers, you have to know the right
questions, and The System which is running when those questions are being
asked.And that system is The Matrix.

******
4 April 1999
10

Strange as it seems, I went to his movie wanting desperately to NOT like it
because I knew it would be wildly popular and occasionally, I like to swim
downstream when everyone else chooses upstream. Or is it the opposite of
that,  and where did that saying come from anyway? Was it just programmed
into our psyche at birth? Strange. This movie was incredible, not only was
it visually a treat but it also explains, to my satisfaction,  some
mysteries of life, such as that whole "deja vu" thing.I liked the fact that I wasn't really sure who the good guys and the bad
guys were for about the first 40 minutes.The humor was subtle and very dry. There was one cliched line of humor but
it was placed so well that I didn't mind it and, in fact, found it to
slightly relieve some tension-watch for the line, "the door on your left, no
your other left."Keanu was great. His facial expressions made me believe. He can speak
volumes with just his expressions and two simple words like "whoa" and
"okie dokie." His progressive attitude change, as he learns more and more
about the Matrix and his role in it, is exquisitely believable, and then
when he finally sees the Matrix for what it is, you just know that you would
follow him anywhere.As far as fashion goes, check out the footwear. Everybody has just great
footwear. Don't put away your black clothes for summer, especially those
long black coats, they look great when you're doing those anti-gravity
cartwheels. Those sunglasses will also be a "must have" item for all of you
swimming with the crowd.One final question, "How DOES Morpheus keep those sunglasses
on?"I highly recommend this film for a complete escape from your cares. It is
also a repeater. I saw it twice, and am planning to go at least once more 
so be sure to hit the matinee, they're cheaper, and you WILL want to see
this movie again. Also, I don't know if there are plans for a sequel, but I
would go, and go and go...

******
4 April 1999
10

The Matrix is a feast for the eyes, and don't blink!  It is exciting, scary,
funny, and I can't imagine anyone else in the role of Neo than Keanu Reeves.
The action sequences have to be seen to be believed, and the knowledge that
Keanu, Laurence, Carrie and Hugo were actually doing most of their fight
scenes themselves made my jaw drop.This goes on my list of favorite science fiction films of all time, up there
with Bladerunner and Star Wars. 

******
4 April 1999
9

I was expecting Reeves to be bad like usual, but not once did I catch the
patented, "Dude," coming from his mouth.  It wasn't an Oscar performance but
it was not bad at all.The Special effects were A-M-A-Z-I-N-G.  I especially liked the freeze-frame
effect which was usually followed by a neat rotation of the camera viewpoint
similar to what I have seen in certain video games, but absolutely great
when done live-action.Surprises await!  Go see this movie.

******
4 April 1999
8

I had no real interest in this movie from the commercials, and 
I'm not a big Keanu Reeves fan (though I think his reputation is 
worse than he really is.). But when I found out that this was a
Wachowski Brothers film, and got a few hints abouts the plot, I 
figured I'd give it a try, since I really thought "Bound" was a 
well done film.I have no regrets. This was a very enjoyable movie. Reeves was 
actually quite believable in it, and Laurence Fishburne put in 
an excellent performance, which I have come to expect from him.It got slow a bit in the middle, but much of that exposition was 
needed to set the stage for the wild ride climax to the movie. 
In something that is becoming all too rare these days, I truly 
was not sure how the movie would end. That alone gives it bonus 
points.The special effects were great, in that they helped to tell the 
story, and not make the movie into a 2-hour "gee, aren't we
clever film-makers" wank-fest that seems to be all the rage in
action/sci-fi movies these days.The cinematography overall was very good, with interesting 
camera angles, though I'm not sure why movies of this nature 
always seem to be filmed in such low-light 

******
4 April 1999
9

The movie starts off with a cool action sequence, and it gets you interested
right away.  The movie is very interesting, and keeps the viewer wanting
more.  The middle gets pretty slow, or confusing, as they try to explain
what The Matrix is and how it works (later on, you come to understand it
pretty well).  The last hour or so absolutely blows you away, with some of
the greatest action sequences/special effects ever filmed, and its a hell of
a thrill ride.  All in all, this movie is a little over long, but it is
undeniably worth seeing because of the great action scenes and stunning
special effects.

******
4 April 1999
10

I take that back.  This very well might be one of the best movies
ever...period.  
I had seen a program about it on HBO, and I KNEW that I had to see this
movie.  I thought that even if the story sucked, I'd pay eight bucks to see
the special effects.  Well, those effects were well worth my money.  And as
an added bonus, the plot kicked butt.  I've seen it before in other mediums,
but never before was it this intense and clear and focused. Another bonus was the actors.  I cannot express my feelings about how fine
of a job those people did.  They trained hard and it shows.  It takes real
dedication to do what they did.  And beyond the kung fu, the actors can ACT.
I was nearly in tears for some parts.
This movie does what it is supposed to do.  It entertains, it makes the
viewer feel and care for the people on screen, and it kicks the viewer in
the butt many, many times.
This may sound really stupid, but there are some movies that make me feel
"enlightened", and The Matrix is one of them.  By far this movie is at the
top for 1)Sci-Fi 2)Action 3)Drama 4)intense involved plot 5)visual
effects.
I can't remember another movie with such an involved plot that pulled it off
well.  This movie has everything.  Kung Fu (with some of the coolest shots
I've ever seen), Stunning Visual Effects, Beautiful Acting, Big Guns, Big
Emotions, A Deep, Profound Meaning (listen to the dialogue...it all rings
true), Red, Sticky Goo (okay, I admit, I'm weird), Wonderful Sets, Great
Costume (can I thank the costumer for this?), Big Stunts (many done by the
actors themselves), A Kick Butt Soundtrack (which I'm listening to right
now), Keanu Reeves in All Black Clothes, Toting Big Guns, Carrie-Anne Moss
in All Black, Toting Big Guns (This is important!  She's a warrior and a
woman and balances the two with ease!  There needs to be more of this type
of character in film!), Laurence Fishburne in One of His Finest Words (when
I was talking about acting before, Mr. Fishburne is just plain awesome). Give a big hand to the Wachowski Brothers.  They rock in a hardcore
way.In short, I loved this film.  I plan to see it again.  I feel sorry for
those people who aren't going to see this film.  It's one of those films
that captivate you and forces you think about it weeks after you left the
theater.
Go see it.  You'll be pleased.  I was!

******
4 April 1999
9

Amazing special effects, mind twisting plot, and excellent music combine to
make this one of the best sci-fi flicks in years.  I'm still wondering if
I'm in a Matrix two days after I saw it.  A must have on
DVD!

******
4 April 1999
10

There is only one word in the English language that I feel can sum up the
impact The Matrix has on any viewer who beholds it: WOW!  This movie is
quite easily the most visually innovative film I've ever seen, a comic book
come to life, with sprawling digital landscapes, amazing digital creatures
and fight choreography that rivals anything Hong Kong can muster.  The
story, thankfully, keeps pace with the visuals, making the viewer think (a
feat which few Hollywood big-budgets accomplish).  Now I'm aware that many
people will compare this to Dark City, or maybe even City of Lost Children,
but this movie goes above and beyond anything those two films accomplished. 
Dark City was a great film, however it was plagued by it's MTV editing, not
allowing the viewer to take in the vast expanses of incredible set design. 
Thankfully The Wachowski Brothers don't go overboard on hyper-kinetic
editing, allowing us to intake the landscape.  And City of Lost Children,
although a visual delight, was slightly disappointing story-wise (btw, this
is not to say that I dislike either of the two films, all three of these
films are easily on my Top 10 list).  So, to make a long review short, The
Matrix accomplishes what it set out to do, which is enthrall.  See this film
if you truly want to see what Special FX and creativity are capable of
nowadays.  God, it's a great time to be alive!P.S. There is no spoon (see the movie and you'll understand).

******
4 April 1999
10

Quite simply, The Matrix is an incredible combination of state of the are
visual effects, awesome fight choreography, and impressive screen-writing.  A
must see for any sci-fi or action film fan.


******
4 April 1999
9

Easily the best movie I've seen in the past 5 years. As I was going in, all
the comments from the audience were along the line of "even Keanu can't
screw up this movie too badly". I think even I was shocked to see him turn
in a performance where his usual weaknesses turned into strengths. Wow. I
can't say enough good things. The story and plotline are kind of similar to
Dark City, but the execution and the little details are 100x better. Even
John Woo would be impressed by the gunplay here and the martial arts
sequences are wonderfully over the top. To top it all off you've got the
best bad guy in recent memory: an indestructible government agent that holds
all the cards.
If this movie has a flaw it's that the beginning hour moves a little slowly.
It never gets uninteresting, just a little slow and it makes up for that in
the end. As well, some people may think that the ending is just tacked on as
a Hollywood afterthought. Personally I thought it was consistent with the
film's ideas on fate and prophecy.
When it came time to leave the theater I felt like I'd been put through a 50
mile marathon. Now that's good film! 

******
4 April 1999
8

First allow me to explain that I had no intention of EVER watching this
film.  I try to avoid Keanu Reeves' movies if possible.  He is not one of my
favorite actors.  In fact, he is one of my least favorite.  The trailers for
The Matrix were horrible.  In a nutshell, they invited you to see the movie
for the great special effects.  Whoopeee!!  I hate it when movies rely
heavily on one thing to drive the story.  Be it special effects, explosions,
sap, whatever, that is not enough to make me enjoy the film.  Sure, Star
Wars had some of the best special effects of its time but it is the story
everyone loves.  The only reason I agreed to watch The Matrix is because a
friend really wanted to see it and offered to pay my way.This is a good movie.  The fight scenes are very well done.  The effects are
as awesome as advertised.  Keanu Reeves does an adequate job.  And I am a
big fan of Laurence Fishburne.  What did it for me, though, was the
background story to the film.  It was an interesting concept and even
moderately believable.  Overall, this is a very solidly done movie, one I
would recommend. 

******
4 April 1999
10

The Matrix, in my opinion is the best Sci-Fi movie since the original Star
Wars. The special effects are great and the acting is good. Keanu Reeves
gives his best performance since his role in the Devil's Advocate.
Carrie-Ann Moss is just plain excellent as Trinity. And Laurence Fishburn's
performance as Morpheus is one of his best. Hugo Weaving's sinister Agent
Smith is the perfect villain. All this combined with great special effects
and some of the best action sequences outside of a John Woo film, this movie
is a winner and multiple viewings are a must.

******
4 April 1999
9

The above is not just repetition of its own sake, I HAVE seen this film
three times in three days. If you haven't rented any of the last year's
sci-fi flicks (Lost in Space, Deep Impact, Godzilla, Armageddon), better do
it now because after seeing The Matrix they'll look like s**t (Godzilla
looks like it anyway, but...).As any friend can attest, I see a lot of films. I have my own laser disc home
theater. I haven't been tempted to see a film twice in the theater since...
I think Speed, and that was on account of a girlfriend wanting to see it (no
huge Keanu Reeves fan either). Before that I think was T2.This isn't a review and don't read any comments that are. This sucker does
have a story (if maybe a little too thick for older film critics to
understand, same as their VCRs) that is spoiled by too much foreknowledge.
The rest of its elements (design, cinematography, acting, visual & physical
effects, sound, soundtrack, casting, editing, direction) were approached
with an absolute love of craft. It might not be a film for all tastes, but
for a film lover it is one of the tastiest surprises since John Woo/Hong
Kong cinema.If The Phantom Menace is this year's main course, film lovers please help
yourselves to the appetizer. 'Cause, baby, this film rocks!

******
4 April 1999
9

I went into this movie upon the high recommendation of my friends.  I
thought I was going to be disappointed but I was far from it.  This movie is
a breakthrough in technology.  The visuals are simply staggering.  It is
about time we were given a good sci-fi/action movie.I give this movie a high recommendation to all of those out there who want
to be blown away.  Ironically, one of the trailers was for Star Wars...this
film may give it a run for its money.  It's THAT good. 

******
4 April 1999
9

I've noticed that a lot of the critics out there have put-down the Matrix as
incomprehensible or illogical but that's because they're idiots.  They
simply don't understand the movie and went into critic attack mode by using
artsy fartsy terms to try and hide their lack of technical sophistication.
The Matrix's plot is entirely consistent internally and only requires some
attention to follow.  I won't reveal the plot since part of the fun of the
movie is figuring out what will develop.The action is startlingly fresh and energetic.  Of course the action isn't
entirely original (it's not like there are that many kill people) but the
way the effects, perspectives and different styles are put to use in this
movie hasn't been done before.  Hong Kong wire fighting and John Woo style
shoot-outs done in bullet-time with morphing thrown in are possible in the
Matrix because the rules of that simulated world allow it (see critics
what's so hard to understand about that?).  I won't say that the plot is
wholly original but it helps explain the action and bring on the next fight
sequence.  Besides, any script that finally provides a credible and funny
explanation as to why so many things taste like chicken isn't all
bad.The movie kicks ass (literally and figuratively); you'll enjoy it fully if
if you aren't looking for something like the Piano or other art BS.  Don't
let morons that don't get the movie tell you otherwise. 

******
4 April 1999
9

A high-powered, super slick sci-fi action thriller!  This movie has some of
the best fight scenes and action sequences I have ever seen.  All superbly
shot with cutting-edge cinematography and well-integrated into a plot that
could have been a tired revisitation of archetypal themes, yet instead put a
slick, lively, and extremely exciting spin on a fascinating theme of
"what-is-reality?"  Great performances by all actors, (particularly by Hugo
Weaving and including Keanu Reeves for a change) combined with intense
martial arts study added to the film's credibility and well-executed
suspension-of-disbelief.  An extremely enjoyable and technically masterful
film that I highly recommend. 

******
4 April 1999
10

What an experience this movie was. Thought-provoking, stylish and THE
ultimate in action/fighting scenes! The story is also so complex and deep
that you'll have to see it again to get it all down pat, but believe me you
won't mind!!!P.S. It made 38 million in its opening week and deserved every penny of
it!!!!! 

******
4 April 1999
10

The movie was superb! It kept you on the end of seat with non-stop action!
Keanu Reeves did a great job playing Neo! I give it two thumbs
up! 

******
4 April 1999
10

When I walked into the theater to see Matrix, I didn't know
what
to expect.  Honestly, I wasn't expecting all that much.  The previews that
were shown on talk shows were really cheesy, but I gave it a shot.  I have
to say that Matrix is one of the best movies I have seen in a few years.
The special effects are very special and the acting is surprisingly great.
I loved the concept of the movie and best of all, it made me think.  If you
don't like to think while watching a movie, then don't see Matrix.  But...
if you want to see a good movie that makes you care about the characters and
outcome.... Then see Matrix.  It is worth your 7 bucks.

******
4 April 1999
9

This is a great action/sci-fi/  movie without a dull moment.When I saw the preview for this movie I thought "Not another
special-effects movie, there isn't anything original left to do."
However, I was wrong. As Laurence Fishburne states in the movie "No one can tell you what the Matrix is. You have to see it for yourself."

******
4 April 1999
8

Hey, ok I personally wasn't into seeing this movie but I went with my dad.
And I was shocked by how great it was. Truly, the story, special effects and
acting (yes, acting) made it a great flick. I definitely recommend this
film, but don't miss it on the big screen! And by the way the gun fights are
killer! So coming from me I give The Matrix a 8 out of
10.

******
4 April 1999
10

One of the best movies in years.  Unfortunately it has been slighted by
people with a bias against action/sci-fi movies, as well as against Keanu
Reeves.  However, do not let that talk dissuade you from experiencing this
movie.  A great and thought-provoking story, combined with outstanding
visual effects, make this one of the most unique and masterful movies
released in recent years. 

******
4 April 1999
10

The movie was great!  The actors were perfect in their roles, the plot was a
fantastic idea, and the action scenes were out of this world.  The only
thing you might be disappointed in is the ending of the movie.  Even though
the movie was over 2 hrs. long I wanted more.  Maybe there will be a
sequel. 

******
4 April 1999
8

I was pleasantly surprised by this movie.  Going in I was afraid it would be
little more than a vehicle for computer-animated special effects.  The story
held my interest, though.I thought the pacing and acting were both good.  The fight scenes were fun
and well choreographed.  Laurence Fishburne was very good as usual.  Keanu
Reeves has never really impressed me with his acting, but he was good
here.Worthy of a trip to see it on a big screen. 

******
4 April 1999
10

This movie separated all of the action movies to date. You don't usually see
Keanu Reeves in such a film, but I enjoyed this movie more than any Bruce
Willis, or Arnold Schwarzanegger flick, because this movie actually had a
plot.
Set in a futuristic mode, Reeves finds himself as a hacker, named Neo. The
movie is fast paced, and a little technical, but not too technical for those
watching. Filmed in Australia with contributions from Hugo Weaving as well
as Matt Doran who plays Mouse, shows the world at another angle. The Matrix,
lets us see the truth, but leaves us hanging for more. Definitely the best
movie I have seen all year.

******
4 April 1999
10

This movie was just a plain good time. Excellent story mixed with awesome
special effects mixed with sometimes decent (Reeves), sometimes pretty good
(Pantoliano), and sometimes awesome (Fishburne, Moss, and Weaving) acting.
Also the oracle was totally unexpected. Good flick. 

******
3 April 1999
8

The Matrix is a wonderful movie.  Although it is hard to follow what is
happening sometimes.  The effects, of course, are excellent.  There are such
things as helicopters crashing into rippling buildings.  Of course it may
not win an Oscar or two, but it sure keeps you watching.  About the Matrix,
unfortunately no one can be told what the Matrix is, you'll have to see it
for yourself. 

******
3 April 1999
10

I really enjoyed this movie.  It had a unique "dark" feeling to it and an
ubelievable amount of action.  It was awesome.  Special effects made the
whole story connect.  This movie, I think, people will either love or
hate.
I, loved it.

******
3 April 1999
10

'The Matrix' is the best film that I have seen in quite some time. It
manages to succeed where other films, such as 'Dark City,' failed. The
action sequences are reminiscent of 'Blade,' which for many was the best US
martial arts film of 1998.Like 'Blade,' I did not have high hopes for this film when I walked into the
theater, but I was extremely happy and excited when I left. The fight
sequences were performed by the actors who played the roles (Reeves,
Fishburne) and were striking. Rarely have I heard an audience so impressed
as after the classic lobby sequence.The film has a number of quirks that seem like flaws the first time around.
The first is the stilted delivery of some of the characters early in the
film. The second is the occasional feeling that something does not quite
match up with earlier statements made in the film, and the third is that it
seems to fall into the classic trap of giving a "love conquers all" ending
to an otherwise tremendous film.However, when you see the film again, you will realize the genius of the
writer/directors of this film. The seemingly stilted delivery in the early
scenes of the film is actually just a pacing of the speeches, a novel way of
breaking up the conversation, which otherwise would turn into an extremely
boring lecture. There is a lot of data that needs to be shared, and it could
drag the film down very quickly if it were not dealt with in this
manner.When you see the film again, the second quirk is also soothed. There is no
statement that directly conflicts with the later scenes in the film. The
oracle speaks very accurately, and only makes the statements that need to be
made. Other characters merely misconstrue her words.The third quirk can be viewed as a fulfillment of an earlier prophecy, and
as such can be used to back up a messianic interpretation of the events of
the film.Perhaps in a novel, the story would have ended differently, and the third
issue would disappear (c.f. 'Blade Runner' v. 'Do Androids Dream of Electric
Sheep,' two totally different takes on a similar group of
characters).The film is filled with little tidbits of information dropped into the story
several minutes before a scene. This is neatly done, and sets up the
audience to be ready for the high points of the film.The music in the film is also quite good, though for some reason the best
material was not included on the soundtrack. It is to be hoped that they
will release an album of music from the film at a later
time.Overall, a great film, with interesting special effects, a believable future
with rules that are meant to be broken, and great music. The direction of
the film is top notch, with performances being tightly controlled to add a
literary element to the film's conversations and little tidbits to keep the
audience entertained. I anxiously await the next film by this writing and
directing duo.


******
3 April 1999
9

This movie is about as close to a William Gibson (science fiction Hugo
award
winning) cyberpunk novel put on a screen as one could imagine.  It's not
written by Gibson, but seems like it could have been.  The virtual reality
is almost perfect.I had read that the plot was thin and the middle third slow.  The plot is
just fine for an action film and the pacing throughout was just right in
my
opinion.  I wish it had been longer.  I hope it makes a fortune so more
like
it will be produced.My eleven year old son and his friend also thought it was great.   My
son's
first comment was; "Dad, we have to get this video when it comes out."  I
agreed.  To put that in context, when we saw "Wing Commander", his comment
was - "That sure was boring."The movie is rated R and there's quite a bit of video arcade/action style
violence.  There is also a scene at the beginning that I thought might
produce nightmares for a kid - shoot, maybe even for an adult.  So don't
take children much younger than 11 or children who you do not want exposed
to violence.The evil guy, Mr. Smith, is nearly perfect for the role and the role is
just
right for the movie.  Kudos also to the two lead actors and actress.
Actually, a lady who shows up in the middle of the movie pretty much
steals
the scene she's in.

******
3 April 1999
9

Someone has finally found a forum for Mr. Reeves understated approach to
the
thespian craft: A great all around Sci-Fi/HK Action/SFX Tour de
Force!What brought me to the film in the first place was the promise of a decent
evening's diversion.  What kept me was a fine story, exceptional martial
arts choreography, and stunning production value.Contributing to the viewer's pleasure is an intelligent sense of camp
humor
and tongue in cheek reference to time-honored film archetypes, providing a
nice sense of balance with all of the over-the-top action.And as for Mr. Reeves, well, he grows on you - Finally!  Never thought
that
would happen...

******
3 April 1999
10

The way Hollywood makes movies is changing, Spielberg gave us the
Jurassics, Lucas gave us the Stars Wars - whose second film of the new
trilogy will be filmed digitally, and now The Matrix steps over a new
line.Instead of being "WOW'd" by the effects, you will not see them - you
will
enjoy them, you will feel them, you will be moved by them, but the visual
effects of this film have been so meticulously intertwined with the visual
mundania, that you won't see them. And you'll love it. This is a fast
action, hard hitting, superthriller.Everything that I had ever hope a comic-come-to-life could be.Bravo! Encore!

******
3 April 1999
10

I had some spare time on Wednesday and decided that it would be a
great
time to see a movie.  I had seen glimpses of the movie's special effects
and
knew that Yuen Wo Ping had choreographed all of the action, and so I
thought
to myself that this wouldn't be too bad of an idea.  Well, I found that
that
was an understatement.  This movie amazed me.
In "The Matrix," Keanu Reeves plays a hacker named Neo. There is a
remarkable
action sequence that opens the film, one which may be slightly confusing,
but stick with it the movie explains everything.  I don't want to spoil
the
film and as Morpheus says, "Unfortunately you can not be told what the
matrix is, you must see it for yourself."  I will say this though, combine
Phillip Jose Farmer's "To Your Scattered Bodies Go" with William Gibson's
"Neuromancer" and throw in Hong Kong style, action, and choreography and
what you end up with is "The Matrix."  This film is an action packed
spectacular and definitely lives up to the hype.

******
3 April 1999
8

I've never been a big fan of action movies, but the local reviews of this
movie convinced me to check it out.The fighting sequences, with the ultra-fast moves, still-frames, and
gravity-defying leaps, were among the best I've ever seen in a movie.  The
plot is based on the rehashed premise ("What if this is all just a
dream?"),
but there are enough original twists to make it interesting.  The several
action scenes easily outshined the rest of the movie, but the slower parts
of the movie were necessary for plot comprehension.  The occasional corny
one-liner or holes in the plot are not enough to take away from the
awe-inspiring special effects.Until now,I have never left a movie hoping that there will be a sequel
made.  Now I will give anything to see more "Matrix" action.

******
3 April 1999
10

This movie is great, a definite must see for any fan of The Terminator
(1&2), Total Recall, Blade Runner and/or Strange Days. Also has the
eerieness
of Se7en and Dark City.Even with Keanu's background of poor acting in poor scripts, he makes a
nice
comeback with this movie.  Laurence Fishburne (aka Cowboy Curtis) is also
great.  Plus, lets not forget that Trinity (Carrie-anne
Moss)!Any one that doesn't think this movie is great, tell me what is?  It has
action (setting a new standard in visual effects), a great story (any
comic
book fan will love), a sappy love angle (probably the only poor part of
the
movie) and great suspense.The only ones I can see not liking this film are people that don't have
the
intelligence to follow the story.  Some women that are Action film haters
may not like it either,
although when I saw it on opening night, 75% of the audience were women,
and
they all loved it.

******
3 April 1999
10

Ever since I seen "Bound" I have been a big fan of the Wachowski bros.  I
have been waiting so long for their next movie "The Matrix"  and boy did
it
deliver...I knew if I only seen one movie this year it had to be "The Matrix"  I'm a
fan of Star Wars and everything, but man the Matrix is just so awesome!I've seen it three times now, It has such a great story line, that even if
this movie wasn't jam packed with amazing action scenes (which it is) :) ,
the story itself is enough to support the movie..All the characters played their roles great, I know alot of people don't
like Keanu's acting but he did a great job in this movie, as well as
Fishburne, Joe Pantoliano, Carrie Anne Moss was great as well, very tough.
Hugo Weaving was also great as Agent Smith....I'm not a huge Sci Fi fan, but this is probably one of the best movies
I've
seen in a long long time..Do yourself a favor and see this bad boy on the big screen, you'll be
sorry
if you miss this one.  

******
3 April 1999
10

It may sound like cliche now, but you have to see the Matrix, you cannot
be
told.  Partly, because of the obvious reason, if you're like me, you hate
spoilers and you want to see it for yourself. Partly, because although
it's
in a way a simple enough concept, it has to be seen to be really
understood.That said, let's get to the meat.  If for no other reason than to see some
great visual effects, this movie is well worth seeing.  The effects are
wonderful and innovative without becoming a "look what we did with CGI"
movie.  The sound is also great, well worth looking for a Dolby Digital
theatre to see it.  This is one that will likely be snapped up quickly
once
it's out on DVD by people who want to showcase their 5.1
systems.As for the story, as I said, it's a simple yet intriguing concept of the
future.  There were a couple minor plot holes, but nothing you can't
overlook.  I won't go into what it's all about since I'm sure you've
either
heard it all before or want to see it for yourself.  Rest assured though,
it's good.Character wise, the movie holds its own.  I've yet to be disappointed by
anything Laurence Fishburne has done and he certainly doesn't disappoint
here as the enigmatic resistance leader Morpheus.Personally, I'm not one for Keanu Reaves bashing, he has become
somewhat typecast as the brooding, strong-silent type and he pretty much
sticks to that character here.  I know, everyone's thinking about Johnny
Mnemonic (Moronic), frankly, the suckage factor of that movie cannot be
entirely laid on Keanu's lap.  They could have put anyone in that role and
the movie would have still out-sucked Electrolux.The supporting cast supports well, even though the only characters you
really get to know to any degree are Neo (Reaves), Morpheus, and Trinity
(Carrie Ann Moss).It's hard to really critique this movie further without lapsing into
spoilers and cliche, so I'll leave it at this;  The Matrix is an
entertaining two hours and well worth the price of admission.

******
3 April 1999
9

All I can say is, "WOW"  This movie is great straight from the
beginnining.
The CG are amazing as well as the camera movements.  The action sequences
are also very well done.  At the end of the "Lobby" fight scene (towards
the
end of the movie), there were a lot of people clapping and cheering.  I
honestly believe this WILL win an oscar for best photography and special
effects, and is a definite contender for best picture.  And when you see
this movie, you will never really look at the world the same way again, I
PROMISE THAT!  Definite must see.

******
3 April 1999
10

This movie is riveting from beginning to end.  The action scenes are
great.
The special effects, fantastic.  The story line, credible. The acting
superb!!  This is the type of movie that you must see for yourself...or as
Morpheus says: "Unfortunately, no one can be told what the Matrix is.  You
have to see it for yourself."  Open your mind...(another Morpheus request
to
Neo) and you will enjoy this movie immensely.

******
3 April 1999
10

The Matrix left me speechless after seeing it.  It is truly movie-making
at
it's finest.  The action sequences, the flow of the story, the images -
they
are extremely well done. If you are a kid, you'll remember the fight
sequences for a long time.  If you are an adult, you will remember "the
matrix".  You will ponder the issues brought up for awhile.  The kid in
you
will go crazy.
It's just cool.  If you ever wondered what the limits of technology are
right now, well, just see this movie and you'll see many boundaries being
pushed.  It's just amazing.
I have never wanted to go out and buy a video, because I'm a stingy man.
Trust me, as soon as this comes out, I'm going to buy my first ever video.
It's worth watching over and over again.  It's like no experience I've
ever
had.

******
3 April 1999
10

I just saw The Matrix and I thought it was the most amazing action/sci-fi
movie in a long time.  The special effects were excellent.  There were
times
that I felt like I was actually in the action sequences.  This is a must
see!!!!!!

******
3 April 1999
9

Knowing that I'd be on pins and needles until I see Star Wars Episode I
this
May, I needed some good sci-fi to get me pumped up for the big event.
"The
Matrix" was that film.   The Matrix was everything I wanted "Dark City" to
be and more.  While watching this movie I couldn't help but think how this
would certainly raise the bar for science fiction flicks to come.On the surface, the Matrix is a thought provoking sci-fi story about a
post
apocalyptic earth."The Matrix" does have its faults however.  The ending seemed rushed
(despite the length of the movie) and the story seemed to get a little
thinned out from what was earlier in the film a very richly textured
story.
Also, the much heralded special effects (which were, without a doubt,
awesome) have been used in television commercials within the last year
(did
somebody mention "The Gap" commercial?). Lastly, the movie seems like it
could
have made better use of a sound track (except of course at the end where
we
hear Rage Against The Machine at full ear shattering decibel
levels.)But there is no doubt this is a very well put together movie, complete
with
good acting (particularly by Fishburn) and beautifully integrated with
state
of the art special effects .  Go see it.

******
3 April 1999
10

This is all I have to say about this movie.  I had somewhat of a low
expectation going into this movie but once this movie got going there was
no
turning back.  The fight sequences and special effects in this movie were
well beyond Blade and well beyond Titanic.  If you haven't seen this movie
yet...what's wrong with you! I know I will see this movie at least one
more
time in the theaters before it goes out and I will buy this movie on DVD
because this movie is just too great not to watch again.

******
3 April 1999
10

I thought that this movie was gonna be cool since it had Laurence
Fishbourne
in it and you see a scene in the trailer where he kicks Keanu Reeves's
a**.
BUT... This movie goes way beyond cool with the action, special effects,
and
plot.I also thought that I'd either give Keanu a chance to perform well as an
actor or just ignore his acting, but I didn't have to worry about in this
case since he, Laurence, and all the rest worked really well together and
pulled off a great performance. I plan on seeing this again very soon
(probably tomorrow) and hope to catch the nuances I didn't see before,
like
the clip from "The Prisoner". My only question is not, "What is The
Matrix?"
(for I know the answer) but "What was the purpose of The Matrix?" Oh, and
as
my friend, Zathras would say, "It IS The One."

******
3 April 1999
8

This movie has some of the best action scenes ever made in movie history,
yet the conversations in it are killing us. The Matrix started off pretty
powerful. The way she knocked those guys over was a brilliant scene, but the
plot slows down after that. Every action was slow and the direction to shoot
the conversations were boring. We just see 2 people on screen keep talking
to each other without good music, humor, or others to accompany them. The
movie was about 150 minutes long. I only enjoyed about 50 minutes of it,
when the actions took place. I saw the making of the Matrix and expected a
good action film. I must say I was disappointed by the result yet still
impressed with what they've done for the action parts. Maybe it's because
the actions are directed by Chinese people they hired from
Asia.

******
3 April 1999
9

I knew when even the critics gave it positive reviews that it must be sheer
sci-fi brilliance...Brilliance doesn't approach this engrossing, enthralling experience. I even
had "lying watch" syndrome. When the films over, you look at your watch, and
cannot believe the movie was as long as it was, because you were sucked in
to the credits. I last had that feeling during the Usual Suspects and L.A.
Confidential. Maybe I've just got a thing for brilliant noir-action fusion,
but this movie is a winner. I'm glad it came out before Star Wars I, or even
I probably would've ignored it...See this movie. See this movie now.

******
3 April 1999
7

The Matrix is an interesting film that blurs the distinction between
reality
and the unreal.  Based on the premise that we're all really living in a
dreamworld, it asks the question "What
is real?"  The answer seems to be "Who cares, so long as it seems good to
you?"  There's lots of action and good special effects, though not on the
spectacular scale of a Star Wars.  Keanu Reeves looks good, and Laurence
Fishburne gives a chilling performance.  It's surreal, and if you're
looking
for logic, go somewhere else.

******
3 April 1999
9

This is the best movie I'll see this year, except, maybe, "Star Wars." At
the end, my friends and I had headaches due to oxygen deprivation from
forgetting to breathe for two hours; it was that much of a thrill ride. My
only questions now are, "When does it come out on DVD?" and "Can I pre-order
it?" 

******
3 April 1999
7

The movie was entertaining, but the writers' ignorance was
glaring.The idea of harvesting heat from people to power machinery is silly since
you have to put more energy into a person than you'll ever get out.  And
with no sun, there would be little plant life to feed the people.  If all
they had to feed people was the remains of the dead, the population would
have to be in continuous decline.When Trinity said "Dodge this," she gave the agent much more time to get out
of the way than he'd need if he were adept at dodging bullets. 

******
3 April 1999
10

This movie easily falls into the top ten sci-fi movies of all time, ranking
just after Star Wars, Bladerunner, and 2001. Although not as serious in some
respects--it has a few silly action-movie moments and Keanu, despite a
convincing performance, is still, well, Keanu (something hard to forget in
some of the fighting scenes)--it has amazing effects, an infinitely cool
"look," perfect sets, and a plot that sucks you right in and almost leaves
you wishing it was true to real life. See it on the big screen. 


******
3 April 1999
10

What struck me the most about the Matrix is that there were really no themes
new to the science-fiction realm, but a wonderful culmination of many
different plots from decades of great authors.  This is not to say it had no
original ideas, but I think it shows that the old tales CAN be retold and
combined to make a new story. 

******
3 April 1999
10

I saw The Matrix last night, and I think that this will be one of those rare
movies that actually makes more money the next few weeks than it does the
opening week.  This movie pretty much has it all, and it does it all well.
Keanu was good in his role, basically because he didn't have to do too much
acting, and was able to carry off the action scenes.  And what action scenes
they are!  The cinematography is great, every shot is well set up and
thought out.  The special effects more than live up to their advance
billing.  Most action movies today would be content to stop there.  However,
The Matrix also has a very good plot, one that keeps you guessing till the
end as to what will happen.  One element that I feel makes this movie better
than the usual action movie is that you actually care about the characters,
and whether they will live or die.  The opening scene will hook you, and
will also introduce you to the "freeze time" camera effect.  This effect
appears throughout the movie, so get used to it.  I guess the highest
compliment that I could give this movie is that i didn't want it to end, I
just wanted more action, more effects.  All in all, I highly recommend this
movie.

******
3 April 1999
9

Worth seeing for the conversation you have with your friends afterwards!
Finally, a worthy realization of the concepts imagined in your favourite
William Gibson (Neuromacer) novels.  The thoughtful use of special effects
to convey a fresh story embellished this good storyline.  The fight scenes,
performed by the actors themselves, are worth the price of admission (Jackie
Chan fans will like them).  Comic relief throughout keeps you going when the
story sags a little bit after the intro.  Spectacular ending.  Let's see
more films, like this, that use cities other than NY & LA for
backdrops! 

******
3 April 1999
10

To quote Keanu Reeves would be an understatement when talking about this
film. Even if the acting and storyline suffered severe "Holywood-ness"
(which they didn't--well maybe a little) the special fx alone is worth
seeing. A lot of work has been put into this film to make it one of the
best, most inspiring sci-fi films of this decade. The actors had to go
through 4-6 months of martial arts training to do these scenes WITHOUT
stuntmen, which makes it so much more real and heart pounding (like Jackie
Chan action films). There are fx in Matrix that have never been done before,
or at least extensively used throughout the film. Such as, what the
Wachowski brothers call "bullet-time photography", which provides dynamic
camera movement around slow-motion events that approaches 12,000 frames per
second, thus the super smooth slow-motion scenes seen occasionally in the
film. This is also one of the first films I've seen that effectively
recreates the "Anime" action feel. This is how John Gaeta, of Manex,
describes it: "The Wachowskis are from the comic-book culture, and are
therefore familiar with the Japanese animation style called anime, which we
re-created with live actors for this movie. Anime takes advantage of 'the
physics of decimation'  it breaks down action into its components and
allows those elements to be meticulously controlled to build the most
dramatic effect from dynamic movement." But if you're not a fanatic of
incredible sfx and action sequences, you'll still be pulled into the plot
like the Matrix pulls in its visitors. Don't cheat yourself from the most
incredible cinematic experience of your life. Go see this film!


******
3 April 1999
9

Wow, what an excellent movie! The acting, the fight choreography, and the
special effects are aweswome. This is by far Keanu Reeves best movie yet.
I
never though I would find him believable as a tough guy, but he is.
Laurence
Fishburne plays the leader well with his seriousness balanced by his
drive.
Carrie-Anne Moss was amazing, and Hugo Weaving was just evil. I was
equally
impressed with all the actors/actresses dedication for doing all the
combat
and stunts. This movie is like a live-action anime, has a great story and
terrific special effect. I would advise anyone who enjoys sci-fi movie to
go
see this.


******
3 April 1999
10

Matrix was extremely entertaining, good graphics.
It was around 2 hrs, and 20 minutes..But I was so caught up in the movie
that I didn't notice the time. A great flick, a definite must
see.

******
3 April 1999
9

Whoa, it's Keanu Reaves trying to act.  Mind you, I'm not insulting the
movie overall by saying that the acting in this film was consistently
sub-par.  But I guess that's the good thing about it--consistency.  It was
evident early on that the scratchy dialogue was purposely placed there.
One
could argue that their speech was a result of their society (watch the
movie
and find out what I mean).  But then one could argue that dolphins taste
like chickens.  Worthy Sidenote: Laurence Fishburn tried his best.At any rate, the acting never took away from any of the wickedly ingenious
twists (and there were quite a few moments of those) nor did it infringe
upon the brilliant fx and cinematography.  What kicked me the most was how
the commercials got me to salivate yet still only represented a portion of
what was installed for me.  Another reason I believed the "B movie"
dialogue
to be planned was that some of it was actually quite funny and clever.
The
comic elements would not have been possible had the film taken on the
seriousness of Dark City.  Overall, a worthy deal for the price of a
ticket.

******
3 April 1999
10

Keanu Reeves gives a respectable performance in a superb presentation of
an
intriguing story. The effects are outstanding, as is the cinematography.
Laurence Fishburne is dominating, Carrie-Anne Moss is deadly, and Hugo
Weaving is ice. The martial arts have incredible choreography. The story
is
an almost frightening possibility- I hope to see more from the Wachowski
brothers.

******
2 April 1999
10

Man, This movie was awesome.  I've already seen it twice (at $10 a show),
and it's been playing for less than 36 hours.  The effects are just
fantastic, and the story itself was great.  A real change in pace from
most
of the movies that have come out in the last while.  The acting is great
throughout, though the cast (save Fishbourne & Reeves) is not comprised of
very well-known actors, and even Reeves, whose acting I don't usually
like,
does a good job with his character.
Strongly recommended!

******
2 April 1999
9

I thought the Matrix was pretty good..
I'd say that the best parts were the fighting scenes and
the
special effects. The plot was pretty cool too.
The only thing I wasn't too sure about was Keanu's acting,
not that I have anything against him, it's just that I
didn't
see him improving too much compared with the movie
"Devil's Advocate" .
Well, maybe there wasn't too much acting
in this movie, afterall, it's a sci-fi action based movie..
but I think he did a good job on playing his roll, and I
can
see that he spent time learning all that Kung Fu.. it's
very
entertaining, I gave it a 9. (maybe it should have been 8.6 or
something..)


******
2 April 1999
10

This is one of the best movies I have ever seen and will probably win next
year for best special effects. In The Matrix, Reeves and others battle in
some of the coolest fighting scenes. Incredible special effects add to the
excitement along with good acting from the main roles. An original
storyline
and plot make this movie worth seeing once, twice, and maybe a third time
with a friend. 

******
2 April 1999
9

I loved this movie, I thought it was visually stunning. I sat with my
mouth
open most of the time, but then, I am a sucker for eye candy. The only
real
problem I had with this movie was the last 15 minutes or so, I honestly
think that they didn't know how to end it.  

******
2 April 1999
9

Went to THE MATRIX expecting the standard fare.  What a surprise I got!
This was as good or better than DARK CITY.  The production is outstanding,
the acting is unnervingly futuristic, the plot was highly
thought-provoking,
and for someone who isn't into kickboxer movies -- this movie kicked butt
all over the place.  My eyes were glued to the screen, and I just crossed
my
legs tight when nature called -- because no way was I going to miss a
second
of this fantastic, thrilling film.

******
2 April 1999
10

One word can describe the entire movie ... WOW!  I'm not a fan of SciFi
movies, but this movie just grabbed ahold of me and wouldn't let go.  I
found myself breathless several times during the movie for several
reasons.
The special effects and action scenes are amazing, probably the best that
I've ever seen.  When the plot behind the story was revealed I got chills
pondering over the full truth and intricacy of the story.  Seeing this
movie
was the best money that I've spent in a long time, don't miss this
one!

******
2 April 1999
10

Watching a movie on a Thursday nite in a packed theater only means one
thing
: the movie has to be good.  Well, it was!!! Forget about the plot (which
is
a bore) and the dialogue and brace yourself for the SFX, fights and
gunfights.  TRINITY is a great and fresh looking actress and Keanu is
adequate.  

******
2 April 1999
9

Bound was a smashing debut by The Wachowski Brothers in which they took up
film noire and brought it into the hip world of the '90's. It was a
perfect
example for the indies in that The Wachowskis had never made a feature,
they
were in their mid-Twenties, and they were gutsy. Above all, it was clear
that Bound was a labor of love. Now, these enfants terrible pour their
love
and passion of movies into a sci-fi thriller and stylize the themes and
genres such as the Western, film noire, Asian martial arts and epic cinema
in a post-modern cyber world. An out of this would-be hodgepodge, they
create a mini milestone in an explosive manner. All the innovative special
effects aside, The Matrix has a plastic texture interwoven with sufficient
character depth that is a delight to watch. And the eternal subject matter
of our subconscious, what is Reality/Truth, that it tackles with elevates
this smashing pop-art onto an intellectual level. No, we are not talking
Kubrick/2001 here. The Wachowskis may not have his genius but they have a
perfect cinematic vision, full commitment to each and every detail, a
talent
to put together an impressive cast and crew, and above all, a total
devotion
to the magic of movie-making. Talking about the subject matter of The
Matrix
and its few shortcomings is secondary at this point. It is a movie you see
to devour its feel, its balance and its presentation. Go and see it. You
will recall The Blade Runner, The Dark City, Terminator II, and the themes
from the classics yet wonder how refreshing they are put together. Clearly
Bound was no accident.

******
2 April 1999
10

Whoa, the only word that came into my head was "awesome" when I was
watching
this.  The storyline is a little silly, but the action sequences were so
cool.  The actors would have shoot outs and martial arts fights, all of
them
really long and graphic.  Like when they shoot they fly through the air
shooting each other and dodging bullets.  The martial art sequences were
nice because...it's the Matrix!  You can kick a lot higher
there...*** out of four

******
2 April 1999
10

Quite simply the best Sci-Fi film to emerge from Hollywood in recent
history.  Artistic, stylish, engaging and action packed. Hats off to the
Wachowski Brothers and the crew for bringing it to the big screen and
doing
it so well.  Bravo.

******
2 April 1999
9

Saw the movie yesterday, and it kicked! Anyone who enjoys a good sci-fi
movie will love this. Good visuals, plot, and acting (it's all been said
before)However, I felt a number of echos from William Gibson's works such as
Neuromancer (Let's face it, the discs to teach the people skills are
basically Gibson's microsofts). In fact, I believed at first that the
Matrix
was a film based on one of Gibson's stories, considering the title (if
you've read any Gibson, you know what I'm talking about). It's interesting
how one author can have such a rippling effect on an entire genre of work.
I'd go into detail, but I'd probably spoil a lot of this excellent
story.Down sides to this movie? The ending left me wanting more... something
else
than what happened, but that's just the breaks with movies. Also, most of
the forshadowing was rather blatant (the fact that Neo is a hacker springs
to mind, and let's not forget his name means "new" which is basically what
he is in more than one way) Chessiest foreshadowing? Finally, I wanted to
see Neo manipulate the Matrix a whole lot more than he
did... I didn't feel compelled to "believe" like the characters
did.Overall, this movie really whips the llama's a**. Pumping soundtrack (I am
listening to it right now actually) combined with stark, moving visuals
and
a fresh twist on an old idea all helped give the action scenes depth and
meaning. Go check this sucker out. It's worth another trip into the
Matrix,
just for the visuals. I give it a 9.0 on the cult-film-o-meter. Sure to be
haunting your movie collection for years to come.

******
2 April 1999
10

This is one of the best "what the hell is actually happening here" movies
I have seen in a long time. If you like to think and not have everything
spelled out for you this is the movie for you.
However if you are in the mood not to think see Forces Of Nature. This is a
movie that I have to see a least 2 more times and then buy the DVD. I hope
when it gets to DVD they put the extra effort into it to make it one of my
favorite titles. 

******
2 April 1999
9

This movie is everything it sets out to be, and should be admired for that.
It has virtually no flaws in that aspect.
The virtual world is fantastic, the acting is great, the story is great, the
special effects are just the best ever.  You are safe to take your
girlfriend to this one she will like it.
There is many little details that add to its appeal, especially the
explanations to the glitches in our reality and the scenes from classics
remade in a virtual setting.  Loved the showdown from the old Eastwood
westerns.

******
2 April 1999
10

When I first saw the trailer for the Matrix, I did not know what to think.
I only saw Keanu Reeves, who hasn't had the most consistent acting career,
running around with Lawrence Fishburne asking "What is the Matrix?"
However, this same question drew me into the theater, and I was not
disappointed.
The Matrix has it all.  A great storyline, which causes viewers to question
their own realities.  It also has a pretty good acting crew.  Reeves tops
his previous best in SPEED, portraying the confused, reluctant Messiah of
Fishburne's movement.  Also, the movie has complete control over the
audience.  In one scene, Fishburne (Morpheus) asks Reeves (Neo), "Do you
think what you're breathing now is air?" The entire audience stopped
breathing, and then recovered to congratulate the film with scattered
"whoa's" and "ah's."  Another similar instance occurs when a bullet comes
whizzing directly into the camera, making everyone in the audience
instinctively blink.
Oh yeah, I forgot:  The movie is absolute eye-candy!  Although it is
overdone at times, the computer enhanced stunt sequences are unbelievable!
I won't give anything away, but you're about to see something incredible as
soon as Neo and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) attempt to enter the Agent
headquarters!
All in all, the movie combines the best of the most classic sci-fi films to
create a story to wrap around their visual marvels.  The plot contains
allusions to The Terminator, Alien, and others.  All of this makes the
Matrix an incredible experience that you won't want to see
end.

******
2 April 1999
9

Even with all the hype about this film, it actually managed to live up to
most of its promise.  This is a very fast-paced, inventive, and visually
stunning film.  Every shot is breathtaking and aesthetically brilliant.  The
costumes, makeup, sets, and casting is top-notch.There are flaws, however.  The movie seems to be constantly just falling
short of its promises.  Every sequence is amazing, yet you're left with the
feeling that perhaps it could have been even better still.  The action has
been touted as even better than John Woo, yet I found the sequences somewhat
derivative of the great Hong Kong director.Finally, the ending was a cop out.  It was *almost* satisfying, but the film
decided to get cute.  It's like watching an amazing Olympic race in which
one runner is so fast that he quickly outdistances all the other runners ...
and then, mere inches from the finish line he shows his contempt by not
crossing it.  "I won this race," he says arrogantly, "and everybody knows
it, so why bother crossing the finish line?"Well, that's what this movie was like.  It didn't have to bring everything
to a nice tidy ending, true, but it could have done so so easily that it's
obnoxious and pretentious that it didn't.However, even with these flaws, this is a major work.  It's inventive and
ingenious and a work of art.  Even where it rips off old ideas (such as by
Phillip K. Dick and William Gibson), it at least has the integrity to come
up with its own variations. 

******
2 April 1999
10

I want to congratulate the film makers on a wonderful story and exciting
special effects film.
PKD fans will applaud the question asked and sci-fi fans will love the
action.  A well done film.
Kudos to Mr. Reeves also, I forgot all about the previous films he made me
cringe in.


******
2 April 1999
9

This movie was the embodiment of sci-fi as it should be - it draws you in,
scares you to death, gives you a LOT of eye candy, and leaves you dying to
see it again.Some of the actors enlisted didn't make it look too promising, but the
performances were easily the best seen from Keanu Reeves and Laurence
Fishburne while Carrie-Anne Moss was the perfect choice for Trinity.The look of the scenes that were not based in the Matrix was similar to that
of Alien Resurrection in some ways, and one cut of Keanu Reeves turning
toward the camera with his black trenchcoat flapping in the breeze, raising
2 pistols up toward you looked like it could have come right out of a
Nicolas Cage Face/Off scene.  The majority of the film, however, is very
original.Finally an effects movie with a fantastic plot. 

******
2 April 1999
10

Have you ever had a lucid dream. Y'know one of those dreams where you
realize that you're dreaming and you can then alter the course of the dream
however you want. Well, what if your entire life was a dream and you
suddenly realized it? What would you do? That's the question that Neo faces
in "The Matrix".

******
2 April 1999
10

My palate for summer Sci-Fi movies is now Full. I hope that Star Wars
Episode I can turn up the heat even hotter. After watching The Matrix all I
can say is WOW !!!!! There have been many Sci-Fi movies in the past that
have dealt with the same subject matter but none have so eloquently displayed 
the cinematography like the Matrix did.Hats Off !! To everyone that help bring this 136 min joy ride to the big
screen.CrazyLion
" Movies are freedom for the Soul "
CrazyLion 1999

******
2 April 1999
10

Wow. I was on the edge of my seat for most of this film.  I still don't know
what the Matrix is-  I definitely have to see this movie again.  Beautifully
choreographed action sequences. The physicality of this cinema was amazing.
The CGI work is some of the best I've seen recently. This movie was a great
blend of man's struggle in the world of the "unreal", and ultimately within
himself. Couple this with kung-fu,  extraordinary camera work, and actors
who seemed to put everything into their roles, it's a must see!


******
2 April 1999
7

Before I saw "The Matrix" I thought it was going to be like "Event Horizon",
which is a good movie, if you've never seen a movie before.  Well, I was
wrong.  "The Matrix" isn't an original idea, or even an original movie.
Its originality lies in the fact that all these other films were so
seamlessly tied together in the storyline of "The Matrix", which makes sense
since that's what The Matrix is, or what you are lead to believe it
is.The cast is weak.  Hopefully, someday, our wishes will be granted and Keanu
will stop being the wooden puppet and turn into a real boy.  Laurence
Fishburne can't even save this with his Obi-Wan Kanobi
self.On the plus side, the special effects are really well done.  It is nice to
finally see a movie where the special effects are part of the storyline and
not just for show.  My recommendation:
See this as a matinee, don't pay full price.  You'll feel much better about
yourself only paying $4 for The Matrix, instead of $7.

******
2 April 1999
9

The plot and idea were all pretty new and were good. The special effects
were very good too, but the best was still the action and fightings. They
are awesome.
The only thing I wasn't too sure about was Keanu Reeves. Not that I have
anything against him, in fact, I think he did a fine job in the movie
(especially the effort he put in on all the actions) but compared to the
movie Devil's Advocate, I didn't see big improvements from him. He facial
expressions were almost identical in the two movies (and Al Pacino was just
too good standing beside him, he wasn't too good in that movie) but of
course, there isn't as much acting in Matrix as in Devil's
advocate...
despite that, The Matrix was very entertaining. I gave it a 9 (more like a
8.6)

******
2 April 1999
9

Great flick. Fantastic special effects, and a great plot. Unless someone's
told you the main idea behind the movie, you're really kept guessing as to
what's going on until almost half way through. It's the first entertaining
movie I've seen in a while (maybe I don't get out as much as I
should). 

******
2 April 1999
9

The one aspect of this film that seems to garner almost universal
approval is the action.  The reason for this is that the stunt co-ordinator
AND martial arts instructor for The Matrix was none other than Hong Kong
action director Woo-Ping Yuen, and let me tell you that if you thought The
Matrix's action scenes were out of this world, YOU AIN'T SEEN NOTHIN YET.Woo-Ping Yuen's magnificent Tai Chi series contains some of the most
beautifully choreographed fight scenes ever to grace a strip of celluloid,
and the most impressive of these films is, without a doubt, The Tai Chi
Master (1993), starring none other than the now-famous Jet
Li.Hong Kong comparisons aside, The Matrix is a visually and conceptually
stunning masterpiece (despite an incredibly lame, squirming-in-your-seat,
why-did-they-have-to-put-that-in-there, Hollywood-esqe speech from
Carrie-Anne Moss during the climactic battle) which will leave you wanting
more.  As several previous reviews have stated, Reeves wasn't given enough
dialogue to screw up; thus, the film is mercifully (almost) devoid of
horrible one-liners.Several critics have accused The Matrix of having no original plot, but
my contention is that originality isn't necessarily the key; it's how you
work with what you've got that makes all the difference in the world.  I
personally enjoyed picking up on the slew of subtle movie references in the
film, which include, but are not limited to, Vertigo (I guess this one
wasn't so subtle), Superman II, True Lies, and Dark City/Hellraiser, as well
as a Looney Tune or two.  There are many more, and seeing them used as
tribute rather than rip-off makes viewing the film more fun that it already
is. 

******
2 April 1999
10

I just went to see The Matrix last night and now it is my #1 movie! I
think that Keanu Reeves looked his best in this movie and did an exellent
job as Neo in the movie. Carrie-Anne Moss is a wonderful actress and  was
awesome in this movie. I also loved Laurence Fishburne he did a great job!
The Matrix was such a great movie I am going to see it for the second time.
I highly recommend that you see it. I love The Matrix!

******
2 April 1999
10

One Word: Awesome. I loved the action, special effects, fight scenes, bullet
dodging scenes, and the scene where the Matrix is revealed to Neo. It's the
perfect sci-fi thriller with an interesting story, action, good camera work,
and good choreographs of Hong Kong fight style. It's fantastic and one of
the best sci-fi thrillers of the decade. Like Blade Runner, it's a real big
movie. I hope a sequel will be made soon. It will rock the box office. I
predict it to earn 28 million dollars over the weekend. Mark this movie in
your MUST-SEE LIST OF 1999. The Matrix has me..... 

******
2 April 1999
9

If you enjoyed Dark City as I did I am quite sure you will love this movie.
Dark City is one my all time favorites list and now so is The Matrix.  The
special effects in this movie were out of this world.  They really leave you
pining for more in the end.  I just wanted to watch the movie over again to
catch all the special effects.  As far as acting goes nothing spectacular
was done.  I am quite happy that Keanu did not have many lines in the movie
because he is not the best actor.  In fact, he pretty much sucks (when he
speaks) but the darkness of the movie allowed for his lack of acting
abilities.  Not much dynamic was needed in acting in this movie.  It was
your typical hard ass
acting role movie.  IE. there was one absolutely horrible line in the movie.
(maybe more than one) When Keanu is in the car after being contacted the
girl in the front seat (I think switch) tells Keanu "take your shirt off"
Keanu responds by saying something to the effect of "no way".  The girl then 
says "Listen buddy, it is my way, or the highway".  She then orders the car
to stop and Keanu opens the door like he is going to take the highway.  This
is one line they definitely should not have included so early in the movie.
I thought it was going to be a flop of acting after I heard this, but thank
god it was not.  This movie turned out to kick some serious ass.  It is
definitely worth your time and money.  (5 buck up here in Fort Collins). The
only main thing I recommend is to find a theater that has a huge screen and
awesome sound.  The theaters up here in Fort Collins really stink and I
probably would have had a better time with a good home stereo TV setup.  So
get up off your butt and go see this movie.


******
2 April 1999
10

The Matrix is one of the best sci-fi movies I have ever seen.  This movie
pulls you in and takes you for a wild ride and shocks your senses with
amazing special affects and great martial art fighting scenes.  The plot was
right on with great acting by Reeves(neo) and Fishburne(morpheous) and the
rest of the cast.  This movie has raised a high standard for future sci-fi
movies to come to the level of this movie and I believe very few will.  The
only way to find out what the Matrix is, is to go see The
Matrix.Jason Martin 


******
2 April 1999
8

It seems to be as difficult for Hollywood to put together a good science
fiction movie as it is for a Catholic to take the pill. That is what makes
The Matrix such a pleasant surprise. The opening scene (which is most of the
trailers) is engaging, very well-shot. Keanu Reeves (who's Johnny Memnonic
almost made me swear off Sci-fi)is, believe it or not, very good in this
part. Even more unbelievably, he performs the high-impact martial arts
scenes flawlessly. And when I say high-impact, that's just the tip of the
iceberg. Very well-choreographed, and paced. All the actors do their own
fighting in this one, and all do a good job. The plot is disturbing, and
took a lot of balls to spend this much money on. The directors only
occasionally dip into the realm of cheesiness that haunted Bound, and the
rest of the movie more than compensate. I gave it and 8, which is for me
very good. I think this is probably the best sci-fi movie released in the
last five years. Very well-done.

******
2 April 1999
10

Seldom has a movie exceeded its anticipation as Matrix.
I saw the trailers and thought cool.  The trailers do it
little
justice.  The action sequences: hand to hand, gun fights, and others are
amazing.  The plot makes an X-File conspiracy look tame.  This movie took me
to the edge of special effects and action without sacrificing a great
science fiction story line.  Anyone with the capacity for understanding its
plot would enjoy this movie.  Aside some action scenes that may be scary
and harsh, (no nudity, little profanity [gave a finger],deaths) I would
recommend this movie to any age group with ANY kind of taste.  This movie
rocks!The best way I can describe this movie is a better written, if
possible, Dark City with an even more mind boggling plot and better special
effects along with the added bonus of great action sequences.  Whooh, say
that three times fast.  Back to my original comment, MATRIX is a great movie
I would see more than once and can't wait to purchase. 


******
2 April 1999
9

I had high expectations for this film, given that the directors were
responsible for 1996's great "Bound".  For once, not only were my
expectations met, but they were exceeded.  The film actually improves on the
stylistic ground set forth by last years "Dark City" and adds actual tension
and excitement to a world filled with doubt and suspicion.  The efx are
unlike anything seen before and the fight scenes and shootouts are the
closest thing Hollywood has ever come to the heyday of Woo and Hark.  In
addition, the plot is surprisingly complex and unpredictable (although the
finale is somewhat disappointing).. Acting is sufficient for basically a
visually driven film, with Keanu Reeves giving a much more credible
performance than in the pitiful "Johnny Pneumonic".  A must see
9/10. 

******
2 April 1999
10

I am a huge fan of Hong Kong action films and I thought that I would never
see a American movie that would be any where close to a Hong Kong film but I
was wrong. This movie was one of the greatest action movies I have ever seen.


******
2 April 1999
10

I'm not a science fiction fan.  I like Star Wars and all that, but going
into "The Matrix" I didn't have extremely high expectations.  Coming out of
that movie, I felt like I had just seen a movie that will be the standard
for sci-fi action for years to come.  I won't go on about the storyline,
it's too complex for me to even begin.  But the fun comes in the imagination
of the story, and the action scenes (which rival that of John Woo).  If you
like action movies, science fiction or just entertaining movies in general,
you really need to see "The Matrix".  I've never heard an audience clap so
loudly before. 

******
2 April 1999
10

I really loved this movie, even though some parts are laughable.
It's really enjoyable if you just sit back and let yourself enjoy it without
trying to analyze it too much, and don't take Keanu Reeves too seriously.
Even if some of his lines make you chuckle, just let that make the movie
more entertaining for you. And, the effects are actually used in a way that
makes sense with the story.  I would definitely recommend
it. 

******
2 April 1999
10

The Matrix has to be one of the most exciting movies I have seen in a while.
The visual effects are stunning, the acting is very strong, and the plot is
pure genius.  When I first saw the trailer I thought it would  be just
another stupid sci-fi bomb.  But the Matrix is different.  It has what other
sci-fi thrillers sometimes lack-potential reality.  It kind of makes you
think,  maybe that's possible. It kind of makes you scared too.  YOU MUST SEE
THIS MOVIE!

******
2 April 1999
9

I really enjoyed The Matrix.  This movie was gripping with slick special
effects and cinematography.  The slow motion shots were wild and the fight
scenes were incredible - I felt myself twitching along with the various
martial arts movements, and wished I could jump along walls like they did!
Everything looked smooth, slick and very real.Overall, I loved this movie, and my husband and I both plan on seeing it
again.  I really liked the plot, the effects and the actors.  It's been a
while since we've seen an action-packed movie that didn't insult our
intelligence!  

******
2 April 1999
10

Pitting humankind against computer AI.  You would think that it had already
been done with Terminator, Johnny Mnemonic, etc., but this puts a fresh face
on the concept.  The Matrix is an incredibly well directed, well written
movie!  The special effects are undoubtedly the best in a while.  But not
only that, the story-line actually supports the action and the effects.  It
isn't just an effects movie, the story is well thought out and even thought
provoking.  The acting is well directed and each actor's strengths are played
upon.  As the premise of the movie states, I can't explain the Matrix, you
really need to see it to grasp it.  All I can say is WOW!

******
2 April 1999
7

Ack!  How frustrating.  The movie had a great idea, great visual style, and
an interesting, twisting plot... if only they had gotten rid of the many bad
parts to leave us with the unbelievably great stuff in between, we could
have had a truly wonderful film.The fight scenes were like a super-stylish mix of Woo-style gunplay
utilizing (and well, too) the new spin-around-a-still-scene technology seen
in those Gap and Coke ads, and Hong Kong style kung-fu (Not a surprise since
they got Yuen Woo-Ping, a veteran Hong Kong director dating back to the
original Drunken Master in '78, to choreograph the fights).  And those
scenes are amazing - really.  The high-speed photography was absolutely
beautiful, and mixed with the unreal camera movements, gave me an action
experience unlike any other I've ever seen, from  America's greatest
action/sci-fi flicks, to Hong Kong's recent gunfests and kung-fu
extravaganzas.  It's new, it's exciting, it's great, and it will copied
unabashedly in the future (best to see it while it's fresh).Add the audio/visual perfection to an interesting plotline and
passable-to-good acting from everybody, and you've got the making of a great
show.Unfortunately, there is some pretty downright lame dialogue, a rather slow
expository section in the middle, and some "bad CG creatures versus the CG
spacecraft (or whatever) in the CG set" scenes that are totally passable,
but I've seen a million times before and detract from the completely novel,
brilliant fight scenes mentioned earlier.  They also kind of fart up the
pacing of the later parts of the film, don't add anything substantial to the
story, and are generally uninteresting.Overall, a totally enjoyable experience with scenes that
will
certainly be floating around in my head for weeks to come. 


******
2 April 1999
10

I know people who say, "Keanu Reeves, oh brother."  To them I say, "Get your
butt to see The Matrix."This movie was UNBELIEVABLY good!  Its one of those movies where the heroes
are Gods, but in this one there's actually a reason why.The storyline I won't tell you.  All I'll say is that if it's based on a
book, I'm going to go read it.  What a plot!

******
2 April 1999
7

Great action. Great effects. Nice approach to the premise.
Computer internals type people will see gaping plot holes
(but
I can suspend reality enough for it not to bother me).I liked the cinematography. Good use of light and dark.
The relationships could have been developed better/more.
The "Oracle" could have used a lot more explanation.  

******
2 April 1999
10

This is one of the best visually alluring movies to ever come out on the big
screen.  Who would have thought that a Keaun Reeves movie could be this
good.  It just goes to show you that the script and the directing were right
on the money.  I loved the kinetic feel of the action sequences and the
story was a new fresh take on how we as a society are to blame for
everything that happens in our lives.  We are responsible for our own
lives.Run, run as fast as you can to this film.  You will not be let down. 


******
2 April 1999
10

To be sure all the comments before mine say many of thing things I could
have said about the fantastic special effects, the deeper than most story,
and non-stop action. So I would like to add something else.  I would say
that while this film is in science fiction / cyber `drag' I would call it a
very Gnostic film. The most Gnostic of a number of such films to come out of
late (Pleasantville, Dark City, Dead Man) And if you don't know what I mean
by Gnostic then look it up. Learning New (Neo) things is good for
you.

******
2 April 1999
10

The Wachowski brothers took three difficult elements and made them work
together: Keanu Reeves (let's face it, he's no Laurence Olivier); a science
fiction plot that -does not- put you to sleep; and action, action, action.
They made a realistic storyline that comes together beautifully, especially
with the effects that are thrown in.  This is probably one of my favorite
movies of all time, now.  A fantastic movie; I recommend that you see
it. 

******
2 April 1999
9

Easily one of the best sci-fi movies ever. It is well-written and flows at a
good pace and the amazingly few holes are easily overlooked. The set design,
while not completely original, is still gorgeous and the cinematography is
breathtaking (I have a new appreciation for the beauty of fire). I would go
on but I don't want to give anything away, let's just leave it as a "must
see." 

******
2 April 1999
9

The Matrix is one of the best movies to date.  It probably won't win any
Oscars but man does it deserve them.  Let's start with the special effects.
The special effects were nothing short of the best to date.  They match up
to Star Wars any day.  Next is the acting.  No one in this movie failed
there role.  Keanu keeps up his high quality acting from Devil's Advocate to
here.  The directing was nothing short of the best too.  The bro's top their
last show Bound by doing even more creativity and using the special effects,
not just showing them (Armageddon, Godzilla).  The effects with the bullets
was done perfect and so were all the fighting and guns fight
scenes.
This movie was so creative that it just shows that any action show can beat
a Drama's story.  The world was amazing and the twists and action were top
notch.  I can't possibly express my feelings on why you should go to this
movie.  All I can say is you will come out pleased.  Go now!

******
2 April 1999
10

Just want to echo the majority here - go see it!  It is an excellent movie.
I had NO idea what it was about - just the enigmatic trailers on TV.  I was
guessing for the first 45 minutes of the movie! I loved the way it slowly
revealed itself.  I just wish the movie could have been LONGER.  I was
disappointed it ended so soon - I wanted more!     

******
2 April 1999
9

This movie was one blood rushing brain geyser movie.  From one scene to
another..non stop action.  I have to say, if you're looking for a movie that
has guns, good music, and cool actors...The Matrix is the one to go
see.

******
2 April 1999
9

The usual formula:
Cyberpunk thriller + Keanu Reeves = SlopSomehow the directors and writers of The Matrix make it work, and
incredible
well. A strong plot and tight screenwriting benefit from believable
character performances that are built up strongly.One of the best things about this movie is that it doesn't throw you right
in to the Matrix itself. Naturally you're given a slight tease at the
start
of the movie, but you're taken on the tour along with the characters as
their realities begin to unravel and expand.Initially I thought I might criticise the movie for too action that goes a
little too far over the top; after a day's thought however it's
understandable that should the Matrix itself actually exist, most anything
would happen over the top.Some incredible groundbreaking special effects and photography, pushing
the
new field of stop-motion rotophotography to limits that have never been
seen
before. While the Phantom Menace will surely walk away with this year's
awards for FX, the Matrix deserves a spot in the hall of fame for pushing
the field beyond any other movie -- even the subtle shots are brilliantly
composited, lit, and animated.The art direction in this movie is also extremely well done. Imagine
mixing
the look, feel and martial arts of The Crow with the futuristic vision of
Metropolis and Dark City. Most every shot is filled with fantastic detail,
from set direction to matte painting and cgi backgrounds.There should be a lot of talk about this movie, and I'm sure many will
detract it. There will surely be a lot of sci-fi fans that will choose to
look for holes in the plot, inaccuracies and conflicting concepts. Of
course, these are the same fans that can see none of the same in movies
from
Star Wars to Blade Runner.I will admit I walked in with extremely low expectations, but I have since
waited on writing this review and prolonged thought on the film has
provided
me with a great appreciation.Besides, any sci-fi movie with such a strong plot and fantastic effects
that
manages to throw in a fantastic homage to Return Of The Dragon (the Bruce
Lee - Chuck Norris fight, to be exact) will long sit in my
memory.

******
2 April 1999
10

Here are a few thoughts on why this movie is so great:The kung-fu is spectacular for a movie not out of Hong Kong.   They even
did
the nice touch of having Keanu learn some of Bruce Lee's little moves from
movies like "Enter the Dragon".  But the camera tricks, slow-motion, and
actors did a wonderful job!  Wow...  It isn't better than the final fight
in
Jackie Chan's "Drunken Master II" -- the best fight in all of Martial Arts
movie history -- but it is great!The special effects are spectacular.  The first fight scene between
Trinity
and the police...its energy and speed set the tone of the movie...awesome!This movie is pure anime.  When you watch some scenes they are
manga...there
are close ups with just enough room for a thought bubble.  The stop-motion
pans set a style of viewing that allows one to see a kick or a punch as a
process of many distinct moves.  The bounding, fighting, gunslinging...
all
very very nice and all very live-action anime stuff (flipping and shooting
and fighting, oh my!).Finally, and most important, a sign of a great movie must leave you
wanting
more.  What decision will they make?   Go see it.

******
2 April 1999
8

All I really can say about this movies is that it was awesome!! Not so
much
based on the acting but on the ideas behind the movie. It really is as
original as they come. Also, action scenes don't get much better than
this!!
I thought that Mortal Kombat had good fights til I saw this! Special
effects
were great, but not distracting. Probably the best movie I've seen so far
this year!

******
2 April 1999
10

Only since the beginning of March 1999 had I become interested in this
film.
I downloaded the trailer from the film's web site, and I became obsessed.
This film was going to rock!And that it did. Take the reality-is-not-what-it-seems element of Dark
City,
add the post-apocalyptic future of Terminator, and mix in the best action
sequences I have EVER seen in an American movie (it tops even Face/Off),
and
you have The Matrix. And with special FX that have to be seen to be
believed, I have found my favorite movie of 1999 (perhaps even more so
than
The Phantom Menace). It's about one more viewing away from becoming my
favorite movie EVER.See this movie. Find a THX-enhanced theatre and RUN to see this movie.
It's
the best money I've spent at the theatre in a LONG time.

******
1 April 1999
10

I don't know if it's because I came into the theater thinking this
would
be a special effects film with a less than an interesting plot, or if it
really started off that badly, but during the first twenty minutes, I kept
thinking "I'd better get out of while I'm ahead."  Good thing I stayed. It
just got better and better.  Yes, it had good effects (with one notable
exception) and great action sequences, but the winner was its exciting
story.
I don't really know what else to say, because I want everybody else to
be
as surprised as I was at all of the enticing aspects of the plot.  I will
say this: If you're ready to walk out in the first 25 minutes, do yourself
a
favor and stay.  I can't wait to see it again.


******
1 April 1999
10

This was the most enjoyable movie I've seen this year.  The previews and
trailers and commercials don't do justice to the quality of the special
effects.  I highly recommend watching this movie with a full theater--the
audience reactions and cheering make it all the more exciting.It's been awhile since I wanted to clap during a movie,  but "The Matrix"
had me laughing and my heart pounding.  There are several major action
sequences which make it worth the ticket price.And I didn't even notice that Keanu Reeves was in the movie--he did a
great
job as the unwilling hero.

******
1 April 1999
10

This is easily the most stylish cyberpunk film I've ever seen. It kicks
the
snot out of Johnny Mnemonic and Strange Days. Yes, it's full of cyberpunk
cliches, like black leather trenchcoats, martial arts, gunplay, etc, but
that's exactly what I was looking for. The visual effects are stunning.
The
fight sequences are incredible. See this movie on the big screen
now.

******
1 April 1999
10

Well, what can I say. I read all the reviews that people
wrote here, and I agree with them. I went to go see it yesterday
and was just so surprised. This is an instant classic, and I intend to
make
the matrix section on my homepage, study the movie when it comes out as a
video, ah dang, it's just such a great movie. John Woo isn't making good
action movies anymore like HARD BOILED, the Matrix certainly filled my
emptiness for some hardcore action movie, you know? I recently learned
about
this two directors. I enjoyed Bound very much and I enjoyed Assassins very
much too. I certainly became a fan of this two directors,, and I thank
them
for making such a great movie when all the movies coming out these days
suck
so bad such as that trash movies Armaggedon. I hope I can make great
movies like them in the future.
The Matrix is the bomb, and if you watch it , you will know it totally. It
kicks major a**, god damn it!

******
1 April 1999
9

This movie far exceeded my expectations.  I read a bit on the net, saw the
trailer, and it looked interesting, but I figured it could go either way.
But wow... what a great movie.  All of us left wondering how soon we would
be able to get the DVD.  This is one of those movies that makes you want
to
spend lots of money on a better home theater system.  The visuals were
stunning and the sound & music were great.  Much fun was had by
all!Guns, loud, sci-fi, kung-fu, great story, and killer special effects...
what
more could you want?  I can't wait to go see it again.  Best sci-fi movie
I've seen in a long time.

******
1 April 1999
9

The 1990's is going to be a memorable year for the Sci-Fi genre.  With
films like "TOTAL RECALL" "THE FIFTH ELEMENT" "JURASSIC PARK" "TERMINATOR
2"
"EVENT HORIZON" and "12 MONKEYS" they were all excellent films that
provided
imagination, along with plenty of intellengence and excitement.  Now
before
the Sci-Fi genre hits full throttle (with EPISODE I), you can say the
engine
is warming up, and it warms up well with THE MATRIX.
THE MATRIX is a interesting mix of "THE FIFTH ELEMENT" "12 MONKEYS" and
"TOTAL RECALL" it's about a computer hacker (Keanu
Reeves) who's is inducted into a gang (led by the always wonderful
Laurence
Fishburne) into realizing what reality is, and what is the mystery behind
the MATRIX?
What is THE MATRIX?  Ha! I'm not going to tell you, you're going to
have
to see the movie to find out!  But you'll be pleased when you do see it.
The movie does have a lot of imagination, and excitement.  It also have
great effects, excellent action scenes, brilliant directing, and decent
acting.  Leave it to the Wachowski brothers to make a exciting film.  I am
wondering after making BOUND and THE MATRIX, on what they are going to be
doing next?  Until then go see this
wonderful sci-fi flick.  It will calm down your excitement before May 19th
hits.  ****1/2 out of *****

******
1 April 1999
10

Keanu was right to skip Speed 2.  This movie is immeasurably better.  The
story is coherent, though complicated.  The effects are the best I have
ever
seen, and the acting is as cool as the entire movie.  I actually took KR
seriously as a kung fu master.  Larry Fishburne was great, and the entire
cast had a comic book reality quality that was completely appropriate to
the
film premise.This is the first movie since LA Confidential I plan to see again before
it
leaves the theater.  I may even buy the CD.

******
1 April 1999
10

This is a must see movie.  I would not wait until it came out
on
video.  The effects are just to good.  If you see only two movies this
year
make The Matrix one of them.  Unique plot for
a movie.  Great special effects.  The gun scenes are excellent.
(Shades of John Woo).  There is humor, however, it is placed
appropriately.
Gives a breath of fresh air to the movie.
Doubt anyone who goes to see this movie will come away disappointed.
:)

******
1 April 1999
8

Let me break the bad news first.  Keanu Reeves has no martial arts skills.
He's stiff as a board and he obviously didn't practice enough before the
filming.  His attempts at trying to mimic the late and great Bruce Lee
were
very sad indeed.  They should have cast Jet Li instead.The fight scenes were an obvious attempt by the Wachowski brothers to
grope
Hong Kong martial arts films.  And they were sorely lacking in comparison
to
the truly skilled martial artists of Hong Kong cinema.Not only did the Wachowskis try to bite Hong Kong martial arts movies,
they
tried to imitate unsuccessfully John Woo's gunfights, two-handed pistol
action and slow motion sequences.  Poor Mr. Reeves pales in comparison to
the likes of Chow Yun Fat.Now, for the good news:  overall -- despite all the wannabe Hong Kong
cinema
elements prevalent in "The Matrix," the movie was visually stunning and
fun
to watch.  The special effects were top shelf, top of the line eye candy.
If you can look past Mr. Reeves inadequacies when compared to the likes of
Jet Li and Chow Yun Fat, the action was still top-notch.  The action and
visuals are well worth the price of admission.Laurence Fishburne is great, as usual.  He plays the role of Morpheus with
the kind of level-headed cool we've all come to expect.  The man commands
respect whenever on the silver screen, and his performance in "The Matrix"
is no exception.On one level, "The Matrix" does what "Dark City" tried to do, but only
better.  The premise is somewhat similar, but I don't want to say too
much,
or else I'll spoil the film for all of you who haven't seen it yet.Watching "The Matrix," I was hoping for a "Twilight Zone" type of ending
that was lacking in "Dark City."  That old television series was great in
that the episodes would start off mind boggling, and end even more so
because the endings weren't necessarily happy and quaint.  But I was
disappointed at the rosey ending of "The Matrix."Nonetheless, "The Matrix" is a solid piece of entertainment, and is more
than worthy of the price of admission.  It gets the thumbs up from this
moviegoer.

******
1 April 1999
10

A great movie, with a great story.  There's never a dull moment and the
computer effects are outstanding.  I will see it 2-3 more times in the
theatre.

******
1 April 1999
9

Since the Bill and Ted movies, I have not had an occasion to watch a movie
and feel that Keanu Reeves was appropriately cast.  Now, I have another
reason to state this.  The Matrix is a High-Energy, fun, and visually
stunning movie, but with an actual plot. The Wachowski brothers have
pulled
off what I had thought impossible and made a realistic looking Live-Action
Anime.  I truly recommend this movie to any sci-fi, anime, or action buff
out there, even if it does tend to get a little heavy handed at times.
Oh,
and see the "Gap Effect" used better then I've ever seen before, the
effects
artists prove that you don't have to be stationary for it to look good.  I
give it 3/4 stars.

******
1 April 1999
10

What is the Matrix?The Matrix is why everything tastes like chicken, why you get deja vu, and
why you should ALWAYS disable those cutesy software agents in Microsoft
Office.The Matrix is what happens when William Gibson, H.R. Gieger, Jean-Pierre
Jeunet, and John Woo decide to make a movie, and it works. You've got to
see
this film on the big screen!

******
1 April 1999
9

I saw the trailer for this film on my computer about a month ago and was
waiting with baited breath to see it! Well I was not disappointed. It was
excellent. Really good special effects, gun fights, bleak-futuristic
cyber-punk film-noir stylee. YES!
The Kung-fu scenes were very well choreographed, and the actors themselves
performed the fighting, very fast, very exiting.
Even Keanu Reeves managed to do well in his role as "Neo" the Hacker,
turned
Leather-clad, sub-machine gun wielding fighting machine.
The coolest film I've seen since 12 Monkeys SEE IT NOW, Miss it at your
peril!

******
1 April 1999
9

After Keanu's last romp as a Cyberpunk in Johnny What's-His-Name who would
have thought he'd ever be able to redeem himself in that type of role
again?
Well, the Wachowski brothers obviously did.
Granted, the term "Cyberpunk" has a tendency to turn people off since it's
been dragged through the mud thanks to the internet but what the Wachowski
brothers have done is put a slightly different spin on the genre.  Though
many of the plot devices used in The Matrix are easily referenced from
other
movies, they are presented in a slightly different fashion that breathes
new
life into them.The special effects are used effectively and don't overpower the viewer.
The sound effects, on the other hand, are loud - almost too loud.  The
sound
effects were a bit overdone in my opinion.  Sound should be used to
accentuate the visuals, not drown it out.  In several instances the sound
got a bit too chaotic and made it hard to concentrate on the
film.The action scenes are some of the most inspired martial arts this side of
Hong Kong cinema.  The use of wires and a majority of the slow-motion
shots
were done exceptionally well.  Because the Wachowski brothers are
notorious
for extreme closeups, some of the action scenes aren't always framed
properly and the amazing choreography doesn't give the audience the full
impact (sorry for the pun).  The director of photography, for some odd
reason, had scenes with people dressed in black fighting in extremely dark
interior spaces which, oddly enough, makes it difficult to see what was
going on.But these are only minor gripes for a movie that stands as 1999's first
Sci-Fi/Action hit for the year.**** out of *****

******
1 April 1999
10

Now this is a movie worth seeing.  The Matrix has got to be the best
sci-fi
movie since Terminator 2, and that has been awhile.  The Matrix has
everything.  Its got a wonderfully imaginative plot, gorgeous visual
effects, great acting, and the whole atmosphere gives it a mysterious and
apocalyptic feel.  The fighting scenes were great!  Very much like anime
cartoons.  Kudos for The Matrix!  It is definitely a MUST SEE
movie.

******
1 April 1999
7

This movie has no right to be this good or this much fun. I went with low
expectations and left very impressed and wanting to see it again. Everyone
on the cast and crew did a fantastic job on this film, except "Mr. Wooden"
of course. (How on earth does Reeves get acting jobs?!!) The only major
gripe I have with the film, besides Reeves and the ever present plot
holes,
is the films tendency to fall back on more action instead of  developing
and
exploring the interesting philosophical questions it raised. (Dark City
comes to mind as an example of a film that spent time with its own
philosophical questions instead of defaulting to yet another action
scene.)
However, with that said, I have to admit the action sequences were
extremely
well done and a blast to watch. I highly recommend this
film.


******
1 April 1999
8

I saw 'The Matrix' and have to admit. I Loved It. The first few minutes
will
blow you away. The stop animation fights got you tense and then kicked
some.
But unfortunately, after the first few minutes, it gets dry for awhile.
There are exciting bits here and there during that dry time, but really
it's
a first five minute/last 30 minute movie. Everything in the middle was
just
to get you to the last scene(s). But those last scenes didn't disappoint
me
at all.I really think this is a movie I'm going to go back and see in a week or
so,
to get it burned into my head a little better. One of the good things
about
this movie is, it can make fun of itself. Through the whole thing, It
would
take itself seriously, then suddenly, something was ridiculous, and that
really broke the tension. The audience laughed during the funny scenes,
and
actually clapped after some of the fight scenes and moves that the actors
did.The fight sequences were so creative, and original. The special effects
were
amazing. Just so fun to watch. So surreal. Almost convincing, but that's
not
really necessary for this kind of movie, because the special effects are
there to make things surreal. One thing can be said though, the ending is
predictable.  Through the whole movie, you are trying to
figure it out.  They tell you about it, but never tell you everything.
That
makes it really interesting.  All in all, if you are a Steven Seagal fan,
see
it. If you are a sci fi fan, see it. If you are a Keanu Reeves fan, see
it.
And if you like girls(and guys) in black leather, see it. So go out and
pay
a couple of bucks for The Matrix, if nothing else, you can make fun of it
afterwards by saying "what is the matrix?" and doing some stop
animation/slow motion fighting with your friend, as my friends did.  But I
definitely recommend this movie.

******
1 April 1999
10

I saw this movie last night, when it opened here, and plan to go back and
see it again tomorrow night.  Overall, this is one of the best sci fi
movies
I've seen.Take the future image of Terminator 2, the atmosphere of Blade Runner and
Gibson's Neuromancer, the plot of Dark City, and the fight scenes,
effects,
and music of Mortal Combat.  Blend them all together, and intensify the
resulting mix, and you get The Matrix.  This movie steals almost
everything
from other works, but mixes the borrowings in a way which enhances all of
them, resulting in a nearly orgasmic work of cyberpunk sci
fi.Not even Keanu can bring this movie down; I would venture to call this one
of his best performances that I've seen.  

******
1 April 1999
10

This is one of the best movies I have ever seen and I used to work at a
movie theatre so I've seen a lot. The storyline is fantastic and I hardly
noticed the movie was long.  You know a movie is good when you don't want
it
to end or hope it will last longer.

******
1 April 1999
10

This movie delivered great acting, an enthralling storyline, action packed
scenes,outstanding computer imaging, and the feeling of question that a
good
sci-fi movie should give you when you leave the theater.  I've seen this
movie four times in the past 2 days... I hope to see it again soon.
Reeves
did a outstanding acting job in comparison to his other movies; he managed
to keep the story surrounding him without sinking the plot.  Great
performances were given from all of the actors in this movie.  See this
film
as soon as possible... and you will never again ask "What is the
Matrix?"...

******
1 April 1999
10

I thought the movie was just excellent. From the story line to the action
sequences everything was just perfect. The sfx were very well done. I
would
say one of my favorite scenes in the movie was the "lobby". If you have no
idea what I mean GO SEE THE MOVIE! Not much being said about the movie in
the media now, but I hope this will change, because this is one movie that
deserves all the publicity it can get. I think '99 is going to be the year
of two great movies, The Matrix and... well you can guess what the other
one
is, right? All I can say in conclusion: GO SEE IT (I definitely am going
to
go again)

******
1 April 1999
10

When I first heard about this movie I thought to myself, oh great
another
Johnny Mem movie. I read the plot along with seeing one image about 5
months
ago and said, "Nah I'll pass."
Last month I saw a preview in the theaters and said to myself, "Oh my
god
this may actually be good." Then I have to say that each time I saw the
preview I started anticipating it more and more.
It looks and feels exactly like a comic book story. The shots of the
characters in a lot of the scenes feel just like something you would see
in
a comic book. The action once again follows the comic book theme as does
the
entire movie. I was well pleased with seeing this movie and will see it
again to catch some of the subtle things that went on.If you are thinking about not going due to Reeves acting, just ignore
your
thoughts cause this movie will have you laughing and cheering and also
saying "WOW!" all the way through it. GO SEE IT!!! 

******
1 April 1999
8

This movie fits well into the cyberpunk genre--dark, edgy, intense, and
very
computer oriented.  If you don't much like cyberpunk, I can't imagine
you'd
much like this movie.  The plot's pretty iffy, but the action is great,
the
special effects are seamless, and all the lead characters excellent for
their roles.

******
1 April 1999
10

This is one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. From the
beginning to the end, this movie oozes out w/ coolness: the soundtrack,
the
wardrobe, special effects, dark shades, etc.One of the movies I immediately thought of as I watched this was Ridley
Scott's "Blade Runner". Both offer a dark view of the future that is
realistic and interesting to watch. It also has a lot of guns ala John
Woo.In "The Matrix", there are a few scenes that seem like a video game--some
that are pretty amusing. But the special effects throughout are just
fabulous. I'm looking forward to seeing it again!

******
1 April 1999
10

I was waiting so long for this movie to come out. When I saw the
preview during the Super Bowl, I knew I had to see this film.
Finally on Wedsday, March 31st at 4:00 P.M. right after school,
I went straight to the movies, and saw it. It was fantastic. The
visual effects were amazing. The actors could do all these
amazing moves. Keanu Reeves and Lawrence Fishburn do martial
arts in this movie, and they were great at it. I've never seen
them do such moves, and I was mesmorized. The story was amazing.
Even if I was allowed to, and wanted to, I couldn't explain it.
You have to see the movie in order to understand. All the actors
and actresses were great. Keanu Reeves especially. I liked him
before, but he was great in this movie. It's his 2nd best
performance since "The Devil's Advocate." I can go on and on
about saying how great this movie is, but I'll stop. There is no
reason why one shouldn't like this movie. So, See it.


******
1 April 1999
7

An awe inspiring film with some of the most unusual imagery I've seen
since
Dark City. The plot is far more comprehensible than I thought it would be
from the looks of the previews.The film revolves around the character known as Neo (Keanu Reeves). A
computer programmer / hacker who suspects that something is wrong with the
world, and that something has to do with The Matrix. Unfortunately, he has
no idea what the matrix is.I really don't want to give away any of the plot beyond this, because the
mystery of it is part of the fun. This movie is well thought out, well
acted, well directed, and just plain great. It also has quite a bit of
humor
in it. Mostly in the form of poking fun at cliches.* * * * - Classic, go see it

******
1 April 1999
7

I don't think I can describe this movie in any short manner.  So, I won't
begin.  It is worth checking out. Watch for Agent Smith, he is  one of the
highlights.  Don't go to the bathroom or concessions during the
movie....
***1/2 out of *****

******
1 April 1999
10

I can not remember having had my expectations more wrong than when I saw
The
Matrix. Expecting a typical, stupid, special effects movie lacking in plot
and character development of any kind, I was amazed at what I saw, and am
still amazed. Instead of preparing yourself for another Independence Day,
prepare yourself for a film that will make you question reality itself.
Combine that with some terrific acting, a truly amazing premise; almost
beyond imagination, some terrific fight scenes and incredible special
effects, and you have one of the best films I have seen in some time. No
one
can be told what The Matrix is, so see the film and find out for yourself.
You won't be disappointed.

******
1 April 1999
9

I went into this movie after hearing all of its good press  wondering if
it
could live up to my expectations.  Instead of living up to my expectations
it totally blew them away.  The movie may be a little confusing and
bizarre
in some parts but on a whole it was spectacular.  The special effects
should
win an Oscar.  For any action or sci-fi lover this is must see!


******
1 April 1999
8

At first, I thought this would be Johnny Mnemonic II because of Mr.
Speed's
role.  After watching this movie on the official wide-release opening
night
(3/31/99),  I was proved wrong.  I believe some people are meant to enjoy
certain types of movies, and some are not.  I was meant to enjoy this one.
The cyberpunk, William Gibson-esque motif, the constant action sequences,
and that lobby scene... Those who have seen the movie know exactly what
I'm
talking about.  I grew up reading Neuromancer, (I actually did a book
report
on it in 8th grade!)and I was hooked on the computer game of the same
name.
This movie has more style than any cyberpunk type movie in existence.  The
only problem I had was that the movie ended too quickly, I wish that this
movie was 3 hours long.  Any latin majors out there can correct my
spelling
but I think "Deus Ex Machina" applies to this movie. Regardless, I'm
waiting
for the DVD. . .  and the sequel!!! (hint, hint)

******
1 April 1999
10

Who would have though that philosophical allegory, Hong Kong kung fu and
high-concept sci-fi would blend so well ?  Unique, thought-provoking and
exhilirating, this is could be the best film of 99.  A
must

******
1 April 1999
9

The Matrix is one of an increasingly rare breed of sci-fi films: it
delivers
in every department. Most of the hype surrounding this movie was built on
the word that the special effects and action sequences were unbelievable.
And, as sometimes happens, the hype turned out to be true. The fighting
scenes in this movie leave little to be desired, as they exhibit a flow,
choreography and elegance that evokes images of the John Woo style Hong
Kong
action genre at its best. And the special effects are so seamlessly fluid
and well-done that one would be inclined to wonder if Star Wars may have a
run for its money. However, the movie does not follow the all too common
formula of simply relying on the action and special effects to keep an
audiences interest. Instead, a solid and complex storyline backs up every
bullet and punch thrown at the audience. And to make the story believable,
top-notch performances from every cast member, notably Laurence Fishburne,
Hugo Weaving and, surprise surprise, Keanu Reeves. The cinematography also
shines in this film. Many of the shots are simply so iconic and beautiful
that you marvel at how it would look in real life. All in all, this film
is
a truly amazing piece of work, and one not to be missed.

******
1 April 1999
10

Ok, first off, I am not a critic or reviewer by profession.  I'm just a
regular science fiction fan just like any other.  I like my action fast
and
furious, my story-line engaging my characters detailed and believable and
just as importantly my technology amazing (after all, isn't that what
science fiction is about?).Unfortunately for the science fiction genre, movies that have all of these
things are few and far between.  There have been decent entries such as
(and
some may disagree with me here) Starship Troopers and the Fifth Element as
well as some movies that i found fun to watch but far from being able to
be
considered good sci-fi flicks (Wing commander and Johnny
Mnemonic).So I was expecting to be fairly disappointed with The Matrix.Boy was I in for a shocker.  The best way to explain the first 5 minutes
is
by comparing it to the beginning of a roller coaster.  About 40 seconds
setting up the scene and then a furious drop into white-knuckle grip
action.
The way that they show how much more powerful Trinity is than the police
and then how much more powerful The Agents are to Trinity is
awesome.While the plot may not be 100% original it is very well done and I found
it
very enjoyable.  The locations give a feeling of confinement even in open
spaces which adds atmosphere that fits the story line perfectly.  I don't
want to comment too much more here for fear of adding spoilers.The characters in the film are detailed and have quite a bit of depth.
Even
the minor supporting roles had enough detail to make them believable.  I
especially loved Agent Smith.  I could almost watch an entire movie about
him because his character and mannerisms were so engrossing.  The
characters
really draw you into this film.Now for the action and technology.  All I can say is damn.  The action
sequences blew me away.  With each sequence better than the previous.  The
directors use of 12,000(yes thats twelve thousand) FPS during key
sequences
provided some never-before-seen effects that made my jaw drop. Trust me,
you
have to see it to believe it.  And my personal fave as far as the
technology
is concerned is what I can only describe as an ELF (electron flux gun)
that
fires off blue-white bolts of lightning.  Incredible.Well that about wraps up my schpiel.  As you can tell I love this movie.
Do
your self a favor and go see it as soon as you can.

******
1 April 1999
8

The Matrix scored big points with its over the top special effects and
action
sequences.  Suprisingly, the script is very strong.  We get a good sense
of
who these people are, at least the main characters, and why they are doing
what they are doing.  The dialogue is simple but not stupid, and
realistic.
Buzz words don't overwhelm this script.  However, the concept is nothing
new.  Similar stories have been seen in "Dark City", "The
Terminator"(series), "Total Recall", and even some elements of "Star Wars"
show up in this film (as if there is a Sci-Fi film since that hasn't).  It
is though, one of the best cyber-punk films to date.  The script is
complicated, but well explained.  You won't be scratching your head in
this
one.  This role is tailor made for Keanu Reeves.  He fits perfectly in to
the role of Neo.
The film does run a little long, and dragged in some scenes.  The use of
digital effects was superb and NOT too overdone.  Look for really cool
digital reflections in Fishburne's sunglasses.
The cinematography is top notch, especially the use of filters.  Editing
is
also very tight.  Possibly the best thing about this film is the fact that
although there is tons of violence, there is not a lot of blood and
language.  If you are wondering if it's ok for the kids to see this one,
it
would probably be okay if you parents went along.


******
1 April 1999
8

I went to see this on opening night (Mar 31) and really enjoyed the film
as
a whole. The visuals are stunning and questions of perception versus
reality
and the metaphysical role of awareness stayed with me for the rest of the
evening. There were some weak spots (as there always are) and some wholly
predictable ones (ditto), but the movies pulls you along from one scene to
the next, and I left feeling that the price of the ticket was money
well-spent.

******
1 April 1999
8

The Matrix is probably the best-looking movie I've seen since Dark City,
and
it may actually be better looking.  There is not a single shot in this
movie
that hasn't been thought of stylistically, and it shows.And the plot?  Well, when you think about it later, you will kind of wish
that the last third of the movie had been as intellectual as the first
two-thirds.  But that's only later.  When you're actually watching it, all
those thoughts of "why didn't he..." will be blown away by jaw-dropping
action scenes.That's not a major flaw, though, just a slight one.  Certainly not enough
to
keep this from being a must-see.  This is easily the best action movie of
the year so far.

******
1 April 1999
10

I had the pleasure of seeing 'The Matrix' on its opening night in Boston.
I
went into the theatre not exactly knowing what to expect out of this film.
It has been hyped well.  The trailers left me drooling with their amazing
special effects and their intriguing cast.  However, I was a little
apprehensive about what exactly 'The Matrix' would turn out to be.  I was
afraid that this would be another film where the intense special effects
would drown out the directors' ambition to create a good plotline.  I can
tell you that I was ecstatic with the final results.
This film will leave you wanting more like it.  Its like a masterful
combination of 'Blade' meets 'Dark City' meets 'Hackers'.  The actors have
all gone through intense martial arts training creating some very
impressive
fighting scenes.  The story grabs you from the beginning and leaves you
pondering your very existence.
I highly recommend this film for those with open minds who really love
science fiction and who are looking for a surreal experience like no other
in film.  I can't wait to see it again.


******
1 April 1999
9

This was an excellent piece of filmwork that posesses wonderful
photography,
quality stunts and genuinely impressive computer graphics.  This also
contains one of the best gunfight sequences I've seen not to mention
skillful use of slow motion and lighting.  The plot is well thought out
and
the acting is satisfactory.  Keanu Reeves plays his role well and is well
supported by Laurence Fishburne.  If you ever wondered about why the world
is the way it is, this will blow you away!

******
1 April 1999
9

Average rating among other critics 3 stars out of fourMy reviewTHE MATRIX***1/2[3 1/2 STARS]-Another excellent sci-fi movie. Keanu Reeves
was excellent in this movie. Personally, I'm not crazy about some of the
other movies he's been in except I really did like his movie "The Devil's
Advocate".with Al Pacino. I think Larry Fishburne was also excellent in his
role. What I love about this sci-fi movie is that it is the first sci-fi
with such great action sequences. I also like the idea that just like "Dark
City" it makes you think of whether the world we live in is real or not
real. And that is something that could give me and other people the creeps.
A lot of you are probably wondering if this movie or "Dark City" is better.
All I can say is that each is better in its own way. This movie was better
as an action movie and "Dark City" was better as a horror, but both of these
movies were great movies.

******
1 April 1999
8

After all the trailers, interviews, and general hype, I stood in line,
special preview pass in hand, ready for the action film of the season.
Subconsciously, the question Can they deliver or will TM join Johnny
Mnemonic on the Keanu scrap heap dogged me as the lights went
out.The first twenty minutes of the film seemed to confirm the worst:  it was
choppy, cryptic and I found my mind wandering.  Luckily the pace picked up
and never slowed down again. As Neo, Reeves gives a fairly wooden
performance (something we've come to expect of him), but surprisingly it
actually helps his character.  Carrie-Anne Moss as Trinity is wonderful:
alluring and deadly, a leather clad black widow.  Fishburne's softspoken,
almost monastic Mephisto is riveting.  And, finally, there is Joe
Pantoliano's Cypher, as devious and slimy as we've come to expect him
(Bound,
Risky Business,etc).The nightmarish real earth landscape was truly hellish.  The setting and
atmosphere will
obviously be compared with T2, Blade Runner, and Dark City, not to mention
shades of Demolition Man, and Brazil.  Thankfully TM does  an excellent
job
of this and will not be seen as merely a copycat.  I was also thankful of
the fact that TM does not follow the simple linear plot line common in
most
Hollywood films these days and makes you pay attention and, god forbid,
think.  Setting and plot aside, the question on many people's mind, is
does
the action live up to the hype.   Yes.The action sequences were simply breathtaking and beautifully
choreographed,
worthy of John Woo .  On these merits alone I would strongly recommend the
movie.  The fact that the actors did all their own stunts and spent
several
months in intensive martial arts training only gives it that much more
oomph.   Combine this with the effective utilization of the new freeze
photography (popping up in everything from the Gap commercials to Wing
Commander),  and you have some of the best scenes ever
filmed.This movie will be a welcome addition to my film collection when it hits
the
video stores next year (hopefully I'll have my DVD player by then so I can
enjoy it even more).


******
1 April 1999
9

I saw this movie the first day it came out.  It had everything a perfect
plot, characters, and some of the best special effects I had ever seen.
Keanu Reeves actually did a real good performance as the main character
Neo,
because I remembered the movie Johnny Nmeonic and it sucked!
I would like to see another movie try to copy the plot of this one,
because
it would be impossible to do it.  This movie was so good it made me think
when I got home:  Is our world real or fake?I recommend this movie to anybody, except my parents they hate just about
every movie!

******
1 April 1999
7

It's not the best film, but it's certainly not the worst. The movie asks
the
basic question, "what is reality?"...it's up to you to decide what the
answer is. If you have the slightest inkling to see this film, see it on
the
big screen, in as large a theater as you can get to. This movie will not
be
very enjoyable on a television set. The effects are great, and due to the
nature of the story, never distract you from the film. Tons of action, but
slows down inexplicably in the middle. Keanu doesn't talk much, so
Keanu-haters should be able to tolerate him. All in all, a fun
time.

******
1 April 1999
8

I went into this movie expecting cool special effects and a lame plot.
Instead, I was treated to really cool special effects, a hot babe in shiny
black leather (who can resist?), decent acting, and a surprisingly good
plot.  What is the matrix?  Well, I won't tell you because it will give
away
the fun, but it's definitely worth your time and money to find out.  See
this movie on a big screen.  You'll hate yourself if you wait for
video.

******
1 April 1999
10

The Matrix is a breakthrough film that surpassed all expectations.  Keanu
Reeves finally broke the mold of playing bad roles and delivered an
extraordinary performance.  For those of you who like the film "Blade",
"The
Matrix" is definitely for you.  The special effects were unbelievably
crisp
and very realistic.  This film is a benchmark for films to come.  A real
keeper.

******
1 April 1999
10

This movie is simply stunning.  The visual effects are some of the best
I've
ever seen, if not THE Best.  The movie is gripping.  The action never lets
up.  You are pulled in from the very beginning and are left begging for
more
at the end.  The story itself and the questions it raises are incredible.
They remind me a lot of a book called "The Mind's I" by Douglass
Hofstadter
and Daniel Dennett.  The main question is could this really be happening?
How can you even pretend to know what
someone else experiences if you are not really them?  If you are
interested
by the questions of AI, separating mind and body, reality, and being other
objects, I would seriously suggest you read "The Mind's I."  Most of it is
very interesting and raises questions about the reality of the world we
live
in.

******
31 March 1999
10

All day long I've been saying to people, "Hi.  How's it going?  Go see The
Matrix.  Take the day off.  Go.  NOW."  Movies like this generally don't get
the Oscar and that's a shame.  I haven't been this so completely
entertained, non-stop, I mean it doesn't let up for a second, in years.
After it was over I wanted to beg them to just run it again.  Who are the
Wachowski brothers?  Where did they come from?  I have to rent "Bound" now.
They are amazing.  Come to think of it, everyone who had anything to do with
this has to be amazing, or this was their moment of amazing, or just the
beginning of their amazing filmmaking lives.  Thank you all of
you. 

******
31 March 1999
10
.........is what this movie is all about. It actually takes the
time not
only tell you about the world they have have created, but they also show
it
with great elaborate sets and amazing cg. The script was original and
fresh.
It was well cast; Keanu Reeves gave a good performance, but Fishburne
steals
the show. And Carrie-Anne Moss......whoa. Something that also shines is
the
choreography of the fight scenes. All the actors do their own fighting,
and
it looks great. This definitely makes up for Fishburne and Reeves' other
sci-fi encounters(you know what they were). What is the matrix? You'll
just
to have to find out for yourself. A must see.

******
31 March 1999
10

Many films have made me real hyped after I saw them but this is the best
film to give you a big rush.  It's just the best of the best in its
generation.  The acting is a little dull but that's beside the point.  The
story line is outstanding once you find out everything that's going on and
the action sequences have more adrenaline pumping through them than the
opening action sequence of Blade.  Anyone who had an interest in seeing
this
film must see it.  Like others said don't wait, GO NOW!  I can't believe
how
amazing some of the stunts are and the training Keanu, Lawrence, and
Carrie
must have went through must have been incredible.  This is something you
can't
miss and I want to say so much about it but I don't want to ruin it for
any
of you.  "Unfortunatly no one can be told about The Matrix, you have to
see
it for yourself" is very true. This is a must see to
believe.

******
31 March 1999
8

Great special effects. A visually stunning film. The story had some holes
in
it, but the visuals more than made up for any deficiencies in the
script.

******
31 March 1999
9

One of the best sci-fi movie since Aliens; yes the one with the S.  My god
this movie was incredible.  Let me do you a favor, don't listen to critics
whom don't appreciate or understand sci-fi genre.  If you like sci-fi,
action, consistency of plot, and movie that has refreshing look and
feel-See
this movie.

******
31 March 1999
9

This film fairly exceeded my expectations.  Right off the top of my head I
cannot think of a single thing that I disliked about it (as I sit here
listening to the soundtrack).  I can't claim that this is a "good" or
"great" movie, or give it a fair, unbiased rating.  What I do say is that
I'm extremely glad that I spent the 120 plus minutes sitting in the dark,
and becoming totally absorbed into another reality.  Movies to me are a
total form of escapism, a glimps into impossible dreams, and in that
aspect
"The Matrix" more than accomplished its purpose.

******
31 March 1999
9

I saw this movie yesterday on an advance screening.
This movie really kicks ass, with some of the most awesome special effects
to date. The mood of the picture is a lot like Blade - so if you loved that
one, then there is no doubt that you are going to love this
one!
It's a techno sci-fi action/John Woo special effect sight and sound from
start to finish
There is only one downside that you already know about - I think?.Keanu will never be a great actor, but he is kind of cool when he is wearing
those shades.

******
31 March 1999
10

Best SF movie I've seen in 5 years.  I will be watching it at the theatres
another 2 or 3 times paying full fare!  It's got the necessary ingredients
for an epic sci-fi flick:
1)Great story line: post-doomsday setting with a prophetic messianic
premise.
2)Great actors who happened to be in their "I take my profession very
seriously" mode.
3)Expensive, detailed, and fluid (as opposed to stop-action type) special
effects.
4)Expert editing with full consideration for continuity and
story.

******
31 March 1999
10

The Wachowski brothers bring their stark (and black leather) visions back to
silver screen! And how!  Definitely influenced by the Hong Kong Kung-Fu wire
pix and the two handed pistol shooting protagonist a lá Woo, the action
sequences are some of the best seen in a movie of this type (unless you
count the trailers for "Phantom Menace" - and they still hold their own).
The plot can be confusing at times and somewhat hard to swallow, but... what
if?  That seems to be the point that the Wachowski's are getting across.
Keanu and Laurence are definitely a great pairing.  This isn't so much a
buddy relationship as it is a mentorship.  Reminds one of a similar film
(and film series) that may have been mentioned beforehand.  The other
supporting characters also lend their presence and aren't just backdrops.
Hugo's droll performance for the majority of the film fits perfectly in the
wetworks world, until he throws the equivalent machine version of a hissy
fit.  It's an intense and involving movie that lends itself to fantasy and
amusement.  I'm hooked!  Now only if the Wachowski brothers are involved in
the development of the inevitable software game, then I'd really be wired
in.   

******
31 March 1999
10

It isn't original. It's a splice of Terminator 2, Dark City, a 
Hong Kong martial-arts smorgasbord and about a dozen other 
science fiction and action movies, plus Gibson and Stephenson 
novels.But DAMN, I have never seen a movie that combined so many 
elements as well and come off as something fresh. Finally, someone did a cyberpunk movie and got it right. I'm 
getting the DVD as soon as it hits the shelves.

******
31 March 1999
10

This film ranks up with others such as Dark City for taking an original and
sometimes frightening look at what might have been (or is).  It gives a new
version of a different reality hidden beneath the one we are
in.The amazing special effects drives the vision of the Wachowski Brothers
home.  The martial arts scenes were obviously very well done.  You can see
the work and detail put into this movie.  All these scenes were by the
actors themselves and not by stuntmen, which add to the overall
pleasure.As for what the Matrix is, it has to be seen to be understood.


******
31 March 1999
10

Let's see what can I say.  This is totally unbelievable , from the  moment I
saw the first clip , I wanted to see it. Also I saw Letterman last night
and saw a different clip on it which made me want to see it more. A fast
paced movie with great effects, action and plot.  I was not disappointed.
 From the moment it started I was hooked. For action, guns and martial arts,
always works for me.  Special effects were quite impressive and very
elaborate. The film was equally put together, one aspect did not overwhelm
any other. I do have have one slight dislike, and I guess that goes for all
action lovers. They tried to add a little feelings to the movie. I'm just
glad they kept it like they did.  Just enough to give a  different flavor
not drown it out.  For me I will definitely see this one
again.

******
31 March 1999
10

One of the best movies I ever seen. The best science fiction film ever.
Strongly recommend to see it to everyone. 

******
31 March 1999
8

The W. brothers have taken the sci-fi genre to the next plateau of movie
making. They have managed to forge the intensity of a top action movie, that
would rival any John Woo classic, with the dark foreboding post-apocalyptic
sci-fi view of the future. It is being compared with such classics as Blade
Runner, and a cross between Dark City and Blade, but it is much more than
all of those combined. Reeves finally finds a film to balance his talents
without pointing out his limitations. If any criticism can be found, it would
have to be that the script limited Fishburne's efforts. He should have been
given more dialog to play with. If you see one movie between now and the new
Star Wars, make it the Matrix.  

******
31 March 1999
10

I saw the 10:45 am show today (opening day). I'm leaving in 5 minutes to see
the 10:00 pm show. It is THAT good.

******
30 March 1999
9

This movie shows a lot of the benefits of Hollywood power and will surely
dazzle the considerable majority of viewers with action scenes unlike any
they have seen before.  The deep pockets of Hollywood have slicked-up with
post-production CGI and editing pure Hong Kong style martial arts and gun
fight sequences heavily influenced by imagery drawn from Japanese anime.
The synthesis is quite fresh, but really is an anticipated evolution of
East
meets West action motifs.  Worldwide audiences should eat it up.
Action-director Yuen Wo Ping is a veteran of Hong Kong masterpieces and
should get much of the credit for the visual impact of the action.  To
experience more of his dynamic work (not to mention the soon to dazzle
America charisma and skill of Jet Li) please check out Fist of Legend and
the Once Upon a Time in China series from the  martial arts section of
your
local video store.  You will not be disappointed.  The Matrix receives an
eight out of ten.

******
30 March 1999
9

I don't know the Wachowski brothers, but I know what movies they watch.  Go
see the Matrix and you will too.  Do you like Hong Kong kung fu action pics,
such as Iron Monkey or any Jet Li film?  So do the Wachowskis.  They
obviously knew who in Hong Kong to hire for their wire work and stunt
choreography, because the hand to hand fight scenes in this film are
excellent, and led to applause in the preview audience I saw this film with.
Do you like John Woo's best Chow Yun Fat films, such as Hardboiled and the
Killer?  The Wachowskis do as well.  There is enough flying shell casings,
exploding concrete walls, and 2 handed gun play in this film for the most
die hard Woo fan.  Do you like Japanese Cyberpunk Anime, such as Ghost in
the Shell or Akira?  Those Wachowskis must love it as well.  The storyline
in this film seems straight out of Tokyo, and has that same "I'm not quite
sure I understand what is going on, but it sure is neat" quality that much
anime has.  The special effects (which are very well done) are designed to
generate the feel of anime in a live action film.While the Wachowskis are not quite as good at any of the elements of this
film then the true oriental masters are, they have succeeded admirably in
synthesizing those elements together into one exciting film.  If you are
going to see this one, see it on the biggest screen you can, because on
video (unless you have a home theater set up more expensive than the GNP of
Belgium) this movie will simply not carry your interest.
Without the stunning visuals and style to distract you, some of the plot
holes and Keanu Reeves acting (Jah be praised he has to do very little
acting) will be much more obvious.

******
30 March 1999
10

Given the opportunity to see this movie 4 days before the official opening,
for free no less(!), I immediately took it... after all, for me this has
been one of the most anticipated films of the year, second only to the
"Phantom Menace." Despite what the previews have been showing off for the
past few months, I wasn't sure about the plot, or of Keanu, for that
matter.Well, all my reservations were for naught, because this likely is the best
action flick since "Terminator 2," and it is easily as groundbreaking
technologically now as T2 was back then.
5 minutes into the movie, I thought I was doomed to an overly complex plot,
but all was duly explained, and the pieces fit nicely.Keanu Reeves, along with the rest of the cast were superb, especially
Laurence Fishburn, who was better than ever. Another performance in need of
mention was that of Hugo Weaving as the ruthless Agent Smith... he was just
a kick-ass antagonist.And those action scenes... as I mentioned before, they are as groundbreaking
today as the scenes in T2 were 8 years ago. They truly must be seen... a
feeble description on my part will gravely under-rate how spectacular they
are.
An awesome soundtrack by such artists as Massive Attack, Rage Against the
Machine, Propellerheads, and more, only adds to the overall
package.
"The Matrix" is a phenomenal movie in many aspects, and I'm definitely going
to see it again...and I'll be happy to pay for it. 

******
30 March 1999
9

Do you like sci-fi?  Do you like Hong Kong action and Kung Fu films?  Well,
welcome to heaven a.k.a. The Matrix.  Like a Japanese anime coming to life,
the Matrix is a continuous feast of eye candy; concentrated adrenaline, if
you will.
The film focuses on a young computer hacker ,Neo (Keanu Reeves), who must
choose between two worlds.  One world is an illusion and the other reality.
In doing so he will decide the fate of every one on the planet.  Take a
little Dark City, a lot of Terminator, and about 15 Hong Kong shoot em'
up-chop socky movies and you pretty much have the plot.  The fighting scenes
were choreographed by the same man responsible for Jet Li's finest action
film, Fist of Legend.  So we ain't talkin' souped up Van Damme.  We're
talkin' 100%, grade A, home grown Kung Fu fighting here.  In Hong Kong it is
commonplace to get that level of grace and power in action scenes, but in
America it's as good as we have ever gotten to that coveted level.  This is
probably the best American made Kung Fu movie since Enter the Dragon.  It's
that good.  Get together with some friends, don't blink, and get ready to
experience over 2 hours of the stuff dreams are made of.


******
30 March 1999
10

An old and intriguing question of the imagination is brought to life in this
modern day tale of a world that isn't.  What if everything that you knew,
everyone you loved and you, yourself weren't real.  While I don't want to
give away too much of the plot. I have to say the actors did wonderful jobs
and I usually dislike Keanu Reeves.  His character, Thomas (Neo) Anderson is
played very well along with Laurence Fishburne's character, Morpheus.  The
entire cast complements this movie and help keep the action and plot moving
along at a fast pace. 

******
30 March 1999
10

 From the beginning of The Matrix all the way to the end, I was amazed and
impressed.  I'm not going to touch base on the plot, but it is something
that has never been in any movie that I've ever heard of. The Matrix is
laden with seamless special effects and the best camera angles in a movie to
date. Bullet's cartridges pour over the tops of the camera lenses, shells
are clearly shown being released from the side of the guns, and those are
just a few of the great camera angles. Plus...the action sequences. The
fight sequences, gunfights, explosions, and chase scenes are all done with a
precision that is rarely achieved in any movie today. They all contain
genuine intensity, originality, and perfect choreography. For an action
movie, it's a long film, but the running time goes unnoticed. There are some
plot holes, but not any considerable ones. At the beginning, some of the
performances were a little bland, by the thirty minute mark of the movie,
the entire cast is at their best. This movie tops off Terminator 2, Lethal
Weapon, Die Hard and John Woo's 1989 classic "The Killer" as the best action
movie of all time. The only thing that has a chance at beating it this year
is Star Wars: Episode 1.

******
30 March 1999
8

I was in aww! the movie had a breakthrough with graphics and the plot
harbored within it another plot which was commendable.  The dialogue was
crap though, if I had a say it was the king of One Liners.  Once again Keanu
will score big with what he's best with, action (little speech hard core
violence).  Though I say romantic films are corny this movie reached a
level beyond corny with its attempt for romance, that scene was plain
stoopid!If you're in the mood for anything but intelligent, deep, witty, or life
inspiring, go check this movie.  It's still worth it, it's a fun
flick.

******
29 March 1999
8

The Wachowski Brothers enjoy action movies, but like the rest of us,
realized that most of those made by Hollywood in the last dozen years or so
have been basically mindless, however entertaining they are in other ways.So they wrote THE MATRIX -- actually, before they wrote BOUND -- and
had a hard time selling it.  No wonder.  It's furiously intelligent, very
serious but with an undertone of dark comedy that makes it different from
all other action movies.  While clearly influenced by movies like BLADE
RUNNER and ALIEN/ALIENS, they've also clearly been jazzed by comic books,
cyber-science fiction of the William Gibson school, Hong Kong action movies
and Japanese anime, as well as classic Hollywood films
noir.But while they're clearly influenced by this heady stew, they've
stirred into something fresh and original, and provided a back story so rich
that dozens of other stories could be set in this same universe without ever
getting around to actually doing a sequel to THIS story.  Keanu-bashers will be deeply disappointed, because Reeves is terrific
here, as is the rest of the cast, including the ultra-cool Laurence
Fishburne.  But the standout performance comes from Hugo Weaving as the head
bad guy; it's hard to believe he played the leading role in THE ADVENTURES
OF PRISCILLA, QUEEN OF THE DESERT.

******
29 March 1999
9

What is The Matrix? It would be unfair for me to tell you here,
but take the time and see for yourself. The Wachowski Brothers
have combined slick, state of the art visuals with a thought
provoking screenplay and created one of the most ambitious films
I've seen in a long time, and I've seen a lot of movies.
The Wachowski Brothers manage to seamlessly integrate story
influences ranging from Alice in Wonderland to Terminator 2:
Judgment Day, and stylistic influences covering the spectrum
from Sergio Leone's spaghetti westerns to the best of recent
Hong Kong cinema through their own sensibilities to tell the
story of Thomas "Neo" Anderson (Keanu Reeves), an ace computer
hacker who finds himself a pawn in a larger conspiracy involving
world domination. Recruited by band of rebels led by the
enigmatic Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne), Neo becomes the center
of a deadly cat and mouse game in which not only his fate, but
quite possibly the fates of millions rest on his every
move.Revealing more would ruin one of the best joys in watching The
Matrix - the way the plot unfolds and the surprising twists and
turns it takes. Although The Matrix is being marketed as an
action film in the vein of Blade or The Crow, it's much more
than that for two reasons:1. The intelligence of the screenplay.
2. Its unwillingness to condescend to its audience.Not only does The Matrix succeed on a visceral butt kicking
action film level, but the friends and I who saw an advanced
screening of the film were able to pick it apart and discuss the
ideas and concepts it presented for *days*.If you're looking for a film to get your brain as well as your
adrenaline pumping, The Matrix is it.

******
26 March 1999
10

I recently had the chance to see an advance screening of The Matrix at
Michigan State.  And OH MY GOD, this movie is going to BLOW YOU AWAY.  A
new
standard has been set for sci-fi action movies.  Move over John Woo.  Move
over Michael Bay.  The Wachowski brothers have redefined what an action
movie should be all about.Right from the beginning, this movie is just one HUGE adrenaline rush.
And
unlike the sorry, pathetic excuses for decent action movies during the
summer, The Matrix delivers.  None of that horrendous acting and weak
storylines here, The Matrix has been refined down to the smallest details.
The action sequences are UNBELIEVEABLE, the choreography is SUPERB, the
script is incredible, the special effects are mind-boggling, and the
acting
is great.  This movie has it ALL.Storywise, like The Usual Suspects, this movie has you guessing and
thinking
until the end.  What IS The Matrix?  Who IS The One?  The story is
incredibly well written and clever, it is definately one of the best
sci-fi
scripts out there.However, by far the best part of this movie is the action sequences.  The
choreographer, Woo-Ping Yuen, known for his work in several Jackie Chan
movies, refused to join the crew unless the actors intensively trained in
the martial arts everyday for several months.  The work paid off, as you
will see right away in the opening scene. I must admire and congratulate
the
dedication and work put into filming the action scenes by the actors, the
end result is truly amazing.  Fight scenes in The Matrix is to car chases
in
Ronin, they're both in leagues of their own compared to other
movies.In closing, I honestly think this movie will give Star Wars a run for its
money in overall satisfaction after watching it.  This movie had me
thinking
for days afterwards, still in awe of it.  It may not be as big or make as
much money as Star Wars, but if you're going to see another movie in 1999,
let it be The Matrix.

******
26 March 1999
9

I really enjoyed this film. Keanu Reeves actually did a decent job. The
effects were great, although they had a slight overdependance on the wrap
around freeze frame effect (A la swing dancers in khakis).

******
26 March 1999
10

Damn.  That's what I call action.  Not since T2 have I seen such great
special effects coupled with action, only this was better in some aspects. 
I don't know, I just kept laughing a giddy little laugh throughout because
of awesomeness of scenes (i.e. the lobby).  Sure, the dialog could have been
better, but that's true with almost every film.  But the effects and action
make up for it without a doubt.  You say you don't like Keanu Reeves?  Yeah,
I know, he's not an actor, or at least not a good one.  In this though, he
fits, and makes a pretty cool bad-ass.  So, if you like action in the
slightest, I highly suggest this movie.

******
26 March 1999
8

In their followup to Bound, the Brothers Wachowski present a complex tale
of
VR, AI's, and a resistance group that harkens back to many traditional,
eastern tales. Influences as varied as Dark City, Brazil, High Noon, The
Terminator, and every John Woo film ever made come together in a story
that
makes the best use of Keanu Reeves' limited range. He plays Neo, a man
recruited by Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne) to  battle the AI Agents who
seek
to enslave mankind. In the VR world were they meet, the characters can
perform physics-defying feats, and spectacular Chambara-styled action
ensues. But...can he be The One? Find out for yourself...

******
25 March 1999
10

I just saw an advance screening of the Matrix tonight, and I've gotta say
this:
this movie is a good excuse to get a HDTV and DVD - when it comes out on
those media, that is. (and home theater, if you don't have it, of course.
=)It's a solidly good flick, borders on great at times. It's a
action/thriller, a cyberspace-based nailbiter that borrows snippets of plot
element and/or scenes/similarities from such movies as The Terminator,
Aliens, Star Wars, Empire Strikes Back, and a small handful of others. *But*
only snippets. It's
still a *fairly* original story/adaptation. The main stars are Keanu Reeves
and Laurence Fishburne, and a handful of other fairly talented people (Joe
Pantoliano - been in a bucketload of fairly popular movies over the last 15
years - and Carrie-Anne Moss).Now, anyone who made the mistake of forking over $X to see Keanu Reeves in
his last cyberthriller role, "Johnny Mnemonic" [an adaptation of a William
Gibson (read: the god of cyberspace) ] short story, might run screaming from
The Matrix. Johnny Mnemonic was a *real* dog.  This film is better than that. 
By a *huge* margin.It's a solid  flick, with good non-contrived acting, a
pretty unique and decent storyline, and it was actually very cool -
without trying to ram it down your throat that it was cool/cyberspace is
cool/wearing all black is cool/everything we do is cool. It just *was* what
it was - and it did so very 
proficiently. It's got good guys (albeit somewhat darker-tinged in mood than
you normally think of good) and a strong heroine part in it; and it's got
very bad, evil, insidious dark forces too...it's worth the
$X.I'd give it....somewhere between an 8 and a 9.5. I guess a 9. That'd be
fair.(I just wish "real life" was that easy...I'd say more, but then I'd have to
divulge spoilers. :) Just being able to do a whole bucketload of things that
people were able to do in that movie. :)


******
13 February 2016
10
From March 1999, to November 2003, The Wachowskis have made the
masterpiece trilogy known as The Matrix that doesn't suffer from cute
characters such as Yoda and Jar Jar. It has no more than three films
(Excluding Animatrix), which makes it not as bloated. The first one was
very revolutionary. It was inspired by Alice In Wonderland, Ghost in
the Shell, Simulacra and Simulation and Plato's Cave Of The Allegory.
Like the other two films after it, The Matrix is flawless. The casting,
directing, writing and editing was phenomenal. It was very amazing and
had spectacular action and dialogue. From beginning to ending, this
film has it all. It won four Academy Awards and got added to the
National Film Registry in 2012. Next up: The Matrix Trilogy: Part Two.

******
12 February 2016
3
Technically flawless. Another example of the trend of satisfying the
culturally deep-rooted links from adolescents with fantasy of
British-Scandinavian origin. Makers - and now already our new young
generation on the European continent- managed to forget that what was
'foreign' some 15 years ago now belongs to our cultural heritage.
Gigantic marketing campaigns on all levels since the mid-90ies were a
huge success. I am in my mid-forties and I'm afraid it is too late to
expand my own early cultural roots, mainly based on what the brothers
Grimm and HC Andersen gathered. Sure, this does not diminish the merits
of adding other cultural influences. It's perfectly clear that film
distributors aim for maximal revenues. However, it's a pity the high
quality horror genre for adults is too small a niche to add it to the
films on offer in our theaters.

******
5 February 2016
10
The best thing about the Matrix is the fact that it's such a brilliant,
brilliant plot. Extremely mind blowing! The plot is incredibly deep, having multiple levels for every part in
it. It just try to open our eyes, we are in the matrix and this world
is not what we think it is. One of the most interesting and exciting
movies you can get. Along with the great FX, the story and setting have
endless situational and political analogies that make this hit a
universal smash. Make the connections, and you'll see how this movie is
not just an excellent addition, but an absolutely essential one.
Everyone should see it.This wildly imaginative thriller is a futuristic head trip you most
definitely want to take. I'll be willing to defend the greatness of
this movie. One Of The Great Movies Of All Time A 10 out of 10

******
4 February 2016
8
I cannot get enough of this- movie. I have seen this movie more than
any other movie . "The Matrix" is a visually dazzling caber adventure,
full of kinetic excitement, but it retreats to formula just when it's
getting interesting. It's kind of a letdown when a movie begins by
redefining the nature of reality, and ends with a shoot-out.We want a leap of the imagination, not one of those obligatory climaxes
with automatic weapons fire. In "Matrix," on the other hand, there
aren't flesh-and-blood creatures behind the illusion--only a computer
program that can think, and learn. The Agents function primarily as
opponents in a high-stakes computer game. The movie offers no clear
explanation of why the Matrix-making program went to all that trouble.
Of course, for a program, running is its own reward--but an intelligent
program might bring terrifying logic to its decisions.

******
14 December 2015
10
The Matrix is the best ever movie's. This movies was blow-ups everyone
mind. The best technology ever use on the movies. Keanu Reeves is the
best actor's. I hear from someone, In Greek Mythology Morpheus is the
god of dreams. Some personal information can be seen on Thomas
Anderson's "criminal record" that Agent Smith glances at when he
interrogates Neo: The last update to the file was July 22, 1998 Neo's
date of birth is "March 11, 1962" Neo's place of birth is "Lower
Downtown, Capital City" Neo's mother's maiden name is "Michelle
McGahey" Neo's father's name is "John Anderson" Neo attended "Central
West Junior High" and "Owen Paterson High" (named after the film's
production designer). Recommended movies.

******
23 November 2015
10
"Welcome to the real world". The Matrix, directed by the Wachowskis,
and starring Keanu Reeves as Neo, and Lawerence Fishburne as Morpheus.
Neo is a computer hacker, and Neo is he's hacker name. He real name is
Thomas Anderson. Morpheus, is the wise man who shows Neo "The Matrix".
The Matrix is the world we live in, which is really a computer
generated program.The Matrix has everything. It has Sci-Fi, Action and Comedy. The
characters are very likable, and their are very personable and able to
understand. The Action Sequences are amazing, and the special effects
are simply mind blowing. The plot is very well written, and is very
original. Keanu Reeves suits the role of Neo, just like he was born to
play the part. The supporting cast are also extreme good actors.The Matrix proves to one of the finest Sci-Fi Films of all time and
will last forever.

******
13 November 2015
10
I watched the movies twice a student first , last and only film . I
remember I could not even watch the weeks after effect. How can a man
write such a scenario, I always thought a masterpiece of science
fiction movies of the past have come to be among the top five films.
thank you screenwriters.If a proposed matrix must be absolutely
fabulous if this film one day , I think.If you say why;You feel like
you played with your mind while watching the film.So much subtext ,
metaphor, symbolic expression, besides the philosophical implications
of the spectacular action , which reinforces the spectacular action and
literally a masterpiece of cinema with groundbreaking visual effects.

******
18 October 2015
10
blew my mind the first time i saw it when it first came out. one of
those movies that changed pop culture in cinema and the way we think
about the world around us after seeing one. mind blowing. movies were
never the same after this. sequels weren't as great but still are very
worth seeing. keanu reeves once again plays the savior of all mankind,
which is what he always does. this movie role of his proves that he is
a seasoned pro at the type of character. the "clueless savior of
humanity.' this movie is better going into it for the first time not
knowing what it is about (which is hard since it has been out for so
many years now....) . thats the way you get the true effect of shock
and surprise. one of those movies where its so insane and crazy because
it COULD be real.. and you wonder if it is after seeing this movie.
wondering if your entire perception of reality is false and you're
really living in a simulated computer reality.especially when they tie
end real life events like deja-vu and offer the viewer a sci-fi reason
for what it happens. and, of course, this movie makes trench coats the
most ultimate bad ass thing a person can ever wear.

******
10 October 2015
10
Have you ever felt, with every fiber of your being, that something was
just not quite right? That something or more correctly someone(s) were
manufacturing events, and you know what events I'm referring to, to
make our reality a living hell and there is simply no logical reason or
explanation for it? Well the Matrix is a possible explanation (doubtful
but possible although I have a much more cogent explanation). Every
aspect of this film was groundbreaking! The soundtrack was impeccable,
opening with Zombie's Dragula, followed by others like Manson's Rock is
Dead, Clubbed to Death, Rage Against the Machine's Wake up, etc. it
simply was a groundbreaking soundtrack with no equal. Has Laurence
Fishburne ever been better in anything else? His performance, as well
as his co-stars, was very, very good but his stood out for me! An
amazing film that takes you on a mind blowing ride of possibilities!

******
2 October 2015
10
Very good film, good idea of the world(the matrix) and the way it
functions.Loved every second and every character in the film. Keanu Reeves was
awesome, the kind of strength he brought to the character is something
not everyone could do, and Agent Smith? that guy is bad ass! totally
gave life to the "system" that everyone was fighting, the face of the
machines.The world itself, covered in dark clouds, apocalyptic, machines using
humans for energy... very inspired and intelligent, I've seen it at
least 20 times and still amazing.

******
28 September 2015
10
Before going any further, let me tell you that my review is going to be
a general review about matrix trilogy.Set in future with a very stylish approach, Matrix consist of movies
consisting of alternate world ruled by the machines. Humans are
harvested here in huge fields. Machines create a world for them which
is meant to be error free. This is achieved with help of programs.
Example of such programs are agents. There are programs , there are
anti-programs doing there work for which they have been constructed,
thus trying to maintain balance.Zion is a free city situated underground, for they know their exposure
will bring their end via machines. Although underground these people
are advanced, they have ships which travel through severs to guarantee
well being of Zion. A man from Zion is believed to get to someone who
would be their savior(conveyed as 'He is the one'). Do they find him?
Does he fulfills his destiny movie is all about that.An alternate view of an artist can be consider spiritual in nature
where this world is a matrix and salvation is way of getting freed. An
interesting thought really! I would recommend the trilogy to everyone,
specially sci-fi fans.rating: 10/10

******
14 August 2015
10
The first and the second movies from The Matrix was very good, but
unfortunately the third one was kind of disappointing. I mean.. what
the hell happened? Really! In the last 10 minutes when you expecting
the grand final and be waiting so long to know the answers.. and
nothing. Just some flashes and bright lights and Neo wins. Why don't
they explained that? Also in the end every one expected Neo to win the
war.. not to make a deal. But if we don't look the last awful minutes
from the third move i will say.. This was awesome! The music, the
effects, the story.. man i love this film, and most important it was
original.

******
13 August 2015
9
My first review, in my opinion The Matrix is a fantastic movie and
loved it hence why I rated it a 9/10. These movies are slow paced but
worth the watch. Make sure that you can control the volume because it
seems that the dialog can be quiet and action really loud. It took me a
couple times to watch it to fully understand it. I had my wife watch
the matrix and its sequels, and she enjoys them as much as I do.
Although, because its the first movie I was hoping for more of a in-
depth explanation of what exactly the matrix is.Overall, The Matrix is a great movie and worth the watch. Please set
time aside for this one.

******
4 August 2015
9
The Matrix and Ray Kurzweil's, The Singularity Is Near, are similar in
that both are categorized in the cyberpunk science fiction genre, are
entrenched in the future, has a Prophet (Matrix: Oracle, Singularity:
Ray Kurzweil), Battle forces (Matrix: Sentinals, Singularity:
Nanotechnology), contain sentient machines however, they are dissimilar
in that the sentient machines seek to control the human population
(agents led by Agent Smith) in The Matrix and the sentient machine
strives to save the human population whilst working to be labeled as
one herself (Ramona) in The Singularity Is Near. The Singularity Is
Near though, grounds itself in reality by including interviews with a
line of current day movers and tinkers of our time.

******
23 July 2015
9
I remember taking a class in social psychology many years ago. The Joy
Luck Club figured prominently in the course. I like the idea of
combining movies and theory.I am now studying metaphysics, and any study of reality begins with
René Descartes, the father of modern philosophy. Descartes began his
intellectual odyssey with this question: How do we know that there is a
reality outside our own minds? We each know that we have experiences,
and we can be sure of these experiences; therefore, each of us can be
sure that we exist. But how do we know that the internal experiences we
have corresponds to objects outside our minds?This is the whole theme of The Matrix. Watching this film is like
studying metaphysics.

******
17 July 2015
6
Thomas Anderson lives an ordinary life. A software techie by day and a
computer hacker by night, he sits alone at home by his monitor, waiting
for a sign, but from what or whom he doesn't know.One night, a mysterious woman named Trinity seeks him out and
introduces him to that faceless character he has been waiting
for........Morpheus. A messiah of sorts, Morpheus presents Neo with the truth about his
world by shedding light on the dark secrets that have troubled him for
so long......After seeing this after so many years, the then groundbreaking movie
just doesn't hold up for me.Back in 1999, the trailer was one of the most mysterious things ever to
be seen at the cinema. It was refreshing to see a film not give away
any of the plot, and just astound people with the wonderful effects for
that time.And it comes to fruition that the reason why none of the plot is
revealed on the trailer is simply because it's that mind-boggingly
bonkers, that it probably would have deterred many form seeing it.Seeing it now with much older and wiser eyes, the films just a series
of zen like exposition chapters tied together with very beautiful,
awe-inspiring action, and Keanu going Whoa.The Wachowskis are geniuses, they have made some very experimental
movies, some of them are good, some of them are complete cobblers, this
is why the sequels are much maligned, because they were released when
other, better movies were released.What summer blockbusters were released at the time of this? Episode I
Entrapment Wild Wild West The Mummy The HauntingSo this would have stood out, because the summer of 1999 was a
travesty.It's still enjoyable enough, I just don't think it deserves the
pedestal it sits on.

******
8 July 2015
10
The Best Science Friction ever Made. No one can't tell it's not a
reality Which we are living in. The story line make it so real. Most of
the details are matching with others. There are no controversy. Some
visual effects in the movie, I saw those first time in my life. There
are some technical errors, No Movie is perfect. But this one is way
better than other movies. The idea is the best. Characters are chosen
well as i think. It took me more than 4 hours when I watch the movie
first time. I can watch the movie over and over, Every time I watch it
there's some thing new I didn't notice when I watch it previously.
Again the best movie in the best movie series ever.

******
30 June 2015
10
First of all the idea of the movie is just so perfect. This is what
gives the Matrix the interest of watching..and it sure did pay off!
Everything about this movie is perfect. The idea, visual effects and
acting!So the idea of the movie is something that has never been shown before
to cinema. Living in a computer system controlled by A.I. Using human
bodies as batteries. Wow just reading that makes me want to run to
watch this. The way the idea was shown is crazy perfect. How everything
runs in the Matrix with agents and etc. I can't find anything wrong
with this part of the movie.Second the visual effects...Now for this movie, things like the effects
have never been done or shown before like this. Thus giving the movie
such a praise and respect for the effects. All the martial arts
fighting,shooting scenes and jumping off walls. Your eyes...will be
stunned. Never will you forget those scenes in your life!Last was the acting, the cast for this movie was marvelous...MARVELOUS!
Keanu Reeves, the main actor was superb. He portrayed his roll
perfectly, a lone man searching for an answer. He captured that image
by his great acting skills. Everyone else did a great part as well and
second most credit to Laurence Fishburne. I can't name anyone else who
could pull off a huge leader like roll in this movie. He really pulls
off the "godfather" look and acting in a cyborg computer mafia.Once again...MIND BLOWING!!!!

******
25 June 2015
9
Great trilogy. Enjoyed this so much. I only wish the hero got to learn
more of his powers before the last film. The CG for all the 3 films
were very well done. The acting by the whole cast was spot on and I
never felt like disinterested. The action scenes were great and they
always brought something new in each film. Each film also brought in
new heroes and villains to keep the storyline going while further
seeing new faces. The pace of the storyline was great. Starting off
slow in the first then picking it up more in the second and then
delivering a huge finish in the third film. Enjoyed this trilogy until
the end and I've gone back to watch them again over the years.

******
23 June 2015
8
It's been a while since a movie has generated enough interest in me for
me to watch it. "The Matrix" looked exciting enough in the trailers, so
I decided to give it a look. What I found was an amazing movie, with
some of the greatest special effects I've ever seen. The camera angles
really work for the action sequences and the choreographed fight scenes
made me yearn for more. Say what you want about Keanu Reeves' acting.
He may not deliver the best dialogue, but his look can carry a film. He
was a great choice for the role of Neo. Carrie Anne Moss was great as
was the underrated Laurence Fishburne. I highly recommend this film for
those who are a fan of visually stunning movies. It will blow away your
senses...

******
20 June 2015
10
one of the best Sci-Fi & action movies i have ever seen. people should
not miss this one.the casting members are all well known actors &
actresses. the movie is directed in a very befitting manner.
graphics,choreography,cinematography,sound composition and everything
is so perfectly done.the sequences of this movies has already been
released in the market and they are all very interesting.i already have
watched this movie and all of it's sequences by this time. the movie is
generally based on an imaginary story by the director. but overall i
liked the movie very much for it's graphical composition. the story
line is very amazing. truly a brilliant story to watch. at last it is
just to say awesome.

******
14 June 2015
10
The amazing thing about this film is the philosophy behind it, being
trapped inside the matrix is of course supposed to represent us being
trapped inside our own minds, the physical world around us which our
minds create for us to live in, inescapable, yet feeling so real.
Everything you look at, hear, touch, it's all just a product of the
brain, electrical signals, none of it is really "real", but invented by
the mind. The part the film gets wrong is the idea that if you realise
that you can break out of it, in reality the conscious mind is a slave
to a higher mind which is imposing this prison onto it; the
consciousness is not creating this world and is powerless in trying to
manipulate its prison.

******
10 June 2015
10
When I first watch "The Matrix" I thought I understood what is wrong
with our world. I felt like Neo, waking up while he was still connected
to the System. That's what this movie should be: a wake up call to all
of us, to start living, once and for all.We're so trapped in our day-to-day actions and we forget to live for
ourselves, we forget to look around, to have feelings, to learn to
avoid being trapped in our small bubble, connected to a Reality which
is not ours.I watched this movie so many times, without developing an obsession,
and every time it's a fresh sip of air, helping me to move on with this
life as it is. I'm addicted to it, but in a good way. "The Matrix" will
help anyone to be more determined, to look for a way out from this
System, without disrupting the wires which keeps it connected.In my opinion, is the best movie ever, for so many reasons. If you did
not watch this movie, do it. Leave aside the awesome effects, forget
about the small errors. Think that YOU can be trapped inside the Matrix
and make a choice: the BLUE pill or the RED pill. This will define you:
you're either one of us, or one of them. There are no other options.The movie is outstanding: the effects, the characters, the plot,
everything is very well made, Andy and Lana Wachowski did a perfect
job. Nobody else but Keanu could play Neo's character. The costumes,
the make-up, everything was done in the right way.If you did not see the movie, you don't exist. If you've seen it and
you did not understand the essence, is worst.

******
2 June 2015
10
Matrix can be seen as a action or fight movie, but it is much more than
it. It's a new way to see (and doubt) the world, the reality. There are lots of Philosophy books about it.And also Religion books, because you can find a huge number of
interpretations in the movie. Besides that, the action scenes are revolutionary and the direction is
sharp. Trust me: you got to see it!(And in HD)

******
27 May 2015
10
I saw this movie today with the kiddies. I would say it is a really
solid movie. It is the story of an unlikely friendship that forms when
an outcast alien meets a sassy little girl on a mission to find her
mom. I think the story is well thought out and there are many hidden
life "gems" noted within. The theme of judging others sticks out as
well as themes of "being yourself" and learning from your mistakes. It
is a little predictable but I think all adults feel that way about
children's movies. The acting was good and surprisingly Rihanna did
very good (I had my doubts about that). The kids loved it and laughed a
lot. They also enjoyed the music a lot and that is really what it is
all about. I would recommend it for families.

******
23 May 2015
9
"The Matrix" is a visually dazzling cyberadventure, full of kinetic
excitement, but it retreats to formula just when it's getting
interesting. It's kind of a letdown when a movie begins by redefining
the nature of reality, and ends with a shoot-out. We want a leap of the
imagination, not one of those obligatory climaxes with automatic
weapons fire.I've seen dozens if not hundreds of these exercises in violence, which
recycle the same tired ideas: Bad guys fire thousands of rounds, but
are unable to hit the good guy. Then it's down to the final showdown
between good and evil--a martial arts battle in which the good guy gets
pounded until he's almost dead, before he finds the inner will to fight
back. Been there, seen that (although rarely done this well).Too bad, because the set-up is intriguing. "The Matrix" recycles the
premises of "Dark City" and "Strange Days," turns up the heat and the
volume, and borrows the gravity-defying choreography of Hong Kong
action movies. It's fun, but it could have been more. The directors are
Larry and Andy Wachowski, who know how to make movies (their first
film, "Bound," made my 10 best list in 1996). Here, with a big budget
and veteran action producer Joel Silver, they've played it safer;
there's nothing wrong with going for the Friday night action market,
but you can aim higher and still do business.Warning; spoilers ahead. The plot involves Neo (Keanu Reeves), a
mild-mannered software author by day, a feared hacker by night. He's
recruited by a cell of cyber-rebels, led by the profound Morpheus
(Laurence Fishburne) and the leather-clad warrior Trinity (Carrie- Anne
Moss). They've made a fundamental discovery about the world: It doesn't
exist. It's actually a form of Virtual Reality, designed to lull us
into lives of blind obedience to the "system." We obediently go to our
crummy jobs every day, little realizing, as Morpheus tells Neo, that
"Matrix is the wool that has been pulled over your eyes-- that you are
a slave." The rebels want to crack the framework that holds the Matrix
in place, and free mankind. Morpheus believes Neo is the Messianic
"One" who can lead this rebellion, which requires mind power as much as
physical strength. Arrayed against them are the Agents, who look like
Blues Brothers. The movie's battles take place in Virtual Reality; the
heroes' minds are plugged into the combat. (You can still get killed,
though: "The body cannot live without the mind"). "Jacking in" like
this was a concept in "Strange Days" and has also been suggested in
novels by William Gibson ("Idoru") and others. The notion that the
world is an artificial construction, designed by outsiders to deceive
and use humans, is straight out of "Dark City." Both of those movies,
however, explored their implications as the best science fiction often
does. "Dark City" was fascinated by the Strangers who had a poignant
dilemma: They were dying aliens who hoped to learn from human methods
of adaptation and survival.In "Matrix," on the other hand, there aren't flesh-and-blood creatures
behind the illusion--only a computer program that can think, and learn.
The Agents function primarily as opponents in a high-stakes computer
game. The movie offers no clear explanation of why the Matrix-making
program went to all that trouble. Of course, for a program, running is
its own reward--but an intelligent program might bring terrifying logic
to its decisions.Both "Dark City" and "Strange Days" offered intriguing motivations for
villainy. "Matrix" is more like a superhero comic book in which the
fate of the world comes down to a titanic fist-fight between the
designated representatives of good and evil. It's cruel, really, to put
tantalizing ideas on the table and then ask the audience to be
satisfied with a shoot-out and a martial arts duel. Let's assume Neo
wins. What happens then to the billions who have just been "unplugged"
from the Matrix? Do they still have jobs? Homes? Identities? All we get
is an enigmatic voice-over exhortation at the movie's end. The paradox
is that the Matrix world apparently resembles in every respect the
pre-Matrix world. (I am reminded of the animated kid's film "Doug's 1st
Movie," which has a VR experience in which everything is exactly like
in real life, except more expensive.) Still, I must not ignore the
movie's virtues. It's great-looking, both in its design and in the
kinetic energy that powers it. It uses flawlessly integrated special
effects and animation to visualize regions of cyberspace. It creates
fearsome creatures, including mechanical octopi. It morphs bodies with
the abandon of "Terminator II." It uses f/x to allow Neo and Trinity to
run horizontally on walls, and hang in the air long enough to deliver
karate kicks. It has leaps through space, thrilling sequences involving
fights on rooftops, helicopter rescues and battles over mind control.And it has performances that find the right notes. Keanu Reeves goes
for the impassive Harrison Ford approach, "acting" as little as
possible. I suppose that's the right idea. Laurence Fishburne finds a
balance between action hero and Zen master. Carrie-Anne Moss, as
Trinity, has a sensational title sequence, before the movie recalls
that she's a woman and shuttles her into support mode. Hugo Weaving, as
the chief Agent, uses a flat, menacing tone that reminded me of Tommy
Lee Jones in passive-aggressive overdrive. There's a well- acted scene
involving Gloria Foster as the Oracle, who like all Oracles is
maddeningly enigmatic."The Matrix" did not bore me. It interested me so much, indeed, that I
wanted to be challenged even more. I wanted it to follow its material
to audacious conclusions, to arrive not simply at victory, but at
revelation. I wanted an ending that was transformational, like "Dark
City's," and not one that simply throws us a sensational action
sequence. I wanted, in short, a Third Act.

******
29 April 2015
9
The Matrix is the type of gem that only comes around once a decade. It
is a great film that combines top-notch philosophy (Plato's allegory of
the cave) with the coolest action scenes in a long time. It was awesome
to learn that some of the coolest effects in the film were achieved by
having hundreds of cameras set up to take pictures simultaneously to
get the same image from different angles, simulating camera movement
when edited together.On surface level, this film is simply really cool to watch. The
shootout before Neo and Trinity enter the elevator is one of the most
iconic action scenes in film history. We get all the fun of a lot of
bullet fire, one-handed cartwheels, walking up a person's body just to
kick them in the face, and a lot more fun choreography to go along with
all of this.I love that this film makes ideas from Plato interesting and relevant
via sci-fi motifs. There is also the notion of "the one" in the film. I
have to admit, this motif gets somewhat annoying at times; everyone
seems to say "he is the one" at one point or another in this film.
People see it as a Christ story, but just because somebody is
resurrected doesn't make them Jesus. I mean does he die for sins? There
is also no clear connection to a god in this story, which goes against
the ideas Christianity. I think Plato is more relevant here.What is on and off for me is my opinion on Keanu Reeves' performance. I
used to think his performance in this film is terrible, but I've
realized his playing dumb/ignorant is spot-on. The scene where he
questions if he should save Morpheus seems to lack some emotion, but I
now realize this is one of the few instances of "poor" acting coming
from Reeves in the film.This film would be perfect with a slightly better lead than Keanu
Reeves, but this movie is still f***ing awesome.

******
24 April 2015
10
This time I have to write something because I've watched this movie for
11th times and it never bored me. I wonder why is that? Because Neo was
so cool or Wachowskis are so genius or.. maybe deepdown inside I'm so
eager to take the red pill? Whatever my reason is, this is still (after
16 years) the best movie I've ever watch. The philosophy behind this
movie is never gets old because in some points, it's like a religion,
blind faith & spritually enlighting.. Kinda 21st century Moses story..
A bible that re-written in modern & sophisticated words.Keanu Reeves is absolutely best fit for Neo role, despite of he is not
the first actor chosen to play Neo, Keanu is The One! Laurence
Fishburne played very well as Morpheus, Neo's mentor. He look so tough
& convincing and off course so freakin wise, almost as wise as the
oracle. Carrie-Anne Moss match properly as Neo's girlfriend.. well.. I
think more of partner though. She's not just a sexy girl decorating a
hovercraft full of man, but as a crew, she is as tough as other. Hugo
Weaving is a badass agent Smith that if he is a human, maybe he will
become a saint.. LMAO!For the special effect, even though it's old enough (16 years old
tech), still looks excellent. Similar to my favorite serial, Star Trek
The Next Generation. Tech is old, but the storyline & idea behind that
visual effect is more important & so sharp that cut through the eyes
straight to the brain. Aweeesomeee!!!

******
20 April 2015
10
One of my favorite movies! , All the especial effects are well done , I
love the way they mix between science fiction quantum physics other
sciences with action and martial arts without to be gory ,the director did not exaggerate with blood ,obscene words or obscene
moments , I think a good movie does not need this topics to be a good
movie . Definitely this cast gave the best of their actuation, the production ,
the writers and all the crew made their best to give us a movie to
remember for the rest of our lives.I really enjoyed !!!

******
19 April 2015
9
There are those films that can be considered game-changers in their
field. A Trip To The Moon, The Great Train Robbery, The Public Enemy,
King Kong, The Godfather, Psycho, The Terminator. While it may be a bit
pretentious to put The Matrix with the likes of those masterpieces, I
don't think it's that much of stretch. Andy and Lana Wachowski's 1999
flick is one of the best of its kind. A smart, slick sci-fi actioner
that helped redefine both of those genres. Suddenly, action movies
could be intelligent, have deeper meaning, infuse themselves with
unique visual styles and philosophical undertones. I took influences
from places rangning from Akira and Ghost in the Shell, to Lewis
Carroll's Alice in Wonderland and Plato's Allegory of the Cave, then
fashioned them into something new and original. The tale of down-on-his
luck hacker-turned-savior of mankind Neo (Keanu Reeves), prophesized to
free humanity to from the simulated reality that had become their
mental prison, keeping them from seeing the dark post-apocalyptic
future ruled over by sentient machine A.I. A film that introduced
average movie goers to concepts like simulated reality, showing that
popcorn flicks didn't have to be big and dumb. A film that blew our
minds with VFX innovations like bullet time, and gave us a taste of
that wonderful movie junkfood that is wire fu. A fairly simple story
held together by an excellent cast including the likes of Laurence
Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Joe Pantoliano, Gloria Foster, and Hugo
Weaving, giving us memorable dialogue and characters that have
engrained themselves in the public pop consciousness. It's a movie up
there with the likes of Jaws, Die Hard and Star Wars as one of the all
time greatest blockbusters, one that could hold its against the likes
of the 15-year hyped Phantom Menace and temporarily halting the Star
Wars v. Star Trek debate. A highly influential film that's been
unsuccessfully copied many times, even by its own sadly average
sequels. When one scene (the roof-top bullet dodge) is so popular that
it has been copied/parodied nearly 200 times within 4 years, that
should tell you how much influence this film had in Hollywood and
abroad (a Bollywood remake of The Whole Nine Yards copies the famous
lobby shoot-out nearly shot-for-shot). A film that truly did live up to
its hype and beyond. A smart, well-directed, exquisitely shot and
choreographed film that still holds up 16 years on.

******
12 April 2015
9
This is honestly my first time watching this film, unless I saw it when
I was really young in which case I don't remember anything about it.
It's very interesting to note that the definition of 'the matrix' from
the film has nothing to do with the bending of the back into that limbo
position, and yet it has become known as that in the world. Even to
people who have never really seen the film (like me), still refer to
that action as matrix.I actually really like this film, I don't know if I love it, but I
definitely will watch the sequels and probably even need to watch this
one again soon. The reason being that I did not totally understand what
was going on in respect to the transition between worlds, until my
friend clarified it for me and it made so much more sense after.
However, I didn't realize I hadn't understood until I talked about it,
as the film really engages you with its actions, effects, dialogue -
basically everything. There is so much going on in the film at one
time, that even if you do not fully understand what is happening, you
are invested in that moment there and then.The acting was good too, though the speech did feel a little dry at
times. Hugo Weaving portrays the villain character very well and his
expressions speak volumes. Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne and
Carrie-Anne Moss are also very badass in this, I like it! Though I do
have to comment on the fact that Trinity is the only prominent female
character in this and she is reduced to emotion, once again promoting
the male = active, female = passive, binaries.Speaking of badass, the action scenes were really on point. It was very
fast-paced and has that glitch feel to it which emphasizes the concept
of the world. It does feel odd sometimes and I know this is part of the
concept, but I really hate (can't stand it ever) when there is flying
involved in fights. I just cannot deal.The effects were phenomenal, and seems really progressive of its time.
I mean this was before the turn of the century, and yet we are still
getting movies with not so great visual effects today.Also, it is great how the film covers almost all aspects of life:
action, romance, friendships, violence, society, digital age and
whatnot. I've read reviews that attribute philosophical and religious
meanings to this, but I personally prefer not to go along those lines.
A really great film, and I can't help but wonder if Inception was
influenced by this. The Wachowski Brothers really have a trademark in
the stories they tell; I was not surprised when I found out they
directed Cloud Atlas as well, it has a similar style to The Matrix.
Plus they even created V for Vendetta, one of my favourites, but they
didn't direct it which shows because it doesn't really have their style
in it.Read more movie reviews at: championangels.wordpress.com

******
21 January 2015
9
Coming up on almost sixteen years, The Matrix still shines as a solid
Sci-fi masterpiece. Amazing character and a well crafted universe that
compliments dynamic characters. An amazing soundtrack helps create an
atmosphere that can only be described as exciting and gripping. Its
bizarre to think that originally will smith was going to be cast to
play Neo, but gave up the opportunity in order to pursue the roll of
James West in Wild WIld West. Thanks to that decision, we get Keanu, in
a roll that oddly really suits his personality. His dead eyes and
expressionless acting seem to add to the character of Neo. If there is
anything that can take away for this experience, it is probably that
some of the visual effects are starting to look a little "seasoned".
Thats nothing to be surprised about considering that this film is a
decade and a half old. Great film all around, would recommend it to
anyone.

******
18 December 2014
9
The Wachowski brothers really did excel themselves with this movie.
It's a brilliant movie on a number of different levels - the directing
is excellent, the camera work is great, the visuals are stunning, the
acting is executed with style and conviction, and the plot is truly
inspired. It's really hard to use enough superlatives on this movie!It'd be a 9/10, except for the ending. Having Neo do what he does at
the end really lets it down, in my opinion. However, there's a couple
of sequels on the way, so let's see what the Wachowskis can do to make
up for it. People will say what they want to say about how good The
Matrix is but the bottomline is this: finally there's a philosophical
film that has cut through this generation. My generation. The Wachowski
brothers probably scribbled a little P.S. note when they finished the
script saying: THINK FOR A MOMENT ABOUT YOUR EXISTENCE. What is the
Matrix, you ask? Something that's closer to reality than you think.

******
6 December 2014
10
one of my fav films of all time , a MUST watch for any cult or S-Fi
film fans just do it ! if you have never watched this film before you
should because the plot is amazing it was a unique story when written
and is trueley encaptivating, worth the watch. no bad points. keano
reaves portrayal is amazing and very believable if a fan of any alien
or predator, star trek or staar wars films then i think you'll be a fan
of this for many years to come, the classic rolling code and many
quotes are known by many people even those who have never watched the
film, but you should, for a mind expanding experience of epic
proportions, WATCH THIS FILM NOW

******
4 December 2014
10
This is one of the Best movies ever made throughout lifetime......... I
love the slow motion parts especially when they was doing the security
check... .........I notice most movies now a days have slow motion
scenes in them I am wondering if they will ever make back a matrix
cartoon or movie.........I'm also wondering if they are making more
Matrix movies, scenes should be outer in space and maybe have new
characters like people here in Trinidad and Tobago or the
Caribbean........ Hope to see more action as well as karate. also there
should be a series on television.........Keep up the good work and hope
to see MATRIX 4

******
23 November 2014
10
The Matrix movie is awesome. As it takes us from past, present to our
possible future, it leaves the viewers boggle in amazement at how they
can inanimately identify with message of the movie. it totally makes
sense as science fiction film and has the possibilities of being a
everlasting classic. Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburn did a great job
in making the audience believe the story. i found it to be sexy,
mystical and revealing. i give it a thumbs up for it's graphics and
production. this is a win win all day. it never gets boring. keeps you
on the edge of your seat wondering what's next despite how many times
you've seen it. I hope to be in the next couple of sequels.

******
14 November 2014
8
Whatever one thinks about the original 'Matrix', its influence on
sci-fi and action cinema in the early part of the new millennium is
beyond dispute. It was a game changer the likes of which we hadn't seen
since the original 'Star Wars'. But with its fancy bag of technical
tricks now as outdated as a 56K modem, does the 'The Matrix' still hold
up? Yes, and then some.'The Matrix' is a triumph. Yes, it remains a visually dazzlingly film,
with its bullet-time moves and fast-paced kung-fu choreography, but
what makes it a classic is its ability to move us emotionally. Too
often in this post-Michael Bay world movies seem to think that action
is enough to entertain, but what they seem to forget is that we must
first care about the characters and the stakes before the action can do
its job.Like any such film, there are holes in its logic should you choose to
look for them, but this is a very well conceived and thoughtfully
crafted world that the Wachowski's have built. It's totally immersive
to the point that you don't even question it. Every single thing has
been meticulously crafted. I can't think of a more fully realized
fiction in my lifetime.It spawned an entire sub-genre of imitators, but the original 'Matrix'
stands alone as a bona-fide new millennial classic.

******
22 October 2014
7
Matrix is a good movie and I think it is definitely worth seeing. The
good things about the movie is that the special effects are
groundbreaking, the effects are original and unlike anything you've
ever seen before in sf movies, the action sequences are stirring,
storytelling is compelling and smartly constructed, it has brilliant
ideas, strong human thinking and there is an awesome and completely
believable central villain character (definitely putting him on my
favorite movie villains list) and there are much more good things
still. One thing however is that the Matrix lacks humor and I'm sure
that a little dose of humor would have helped strengthen the script
even more and make the Matrix even more memorable. Aside from that the
film is perfect. My rating: 7.2/10

******
8 October 2014
10
To me it represents pretty much what we are nowadays living in a world
where nothing is true and reality constantly gets confused with
conspiracies.If our current world does not YET fit the story-line completely.
Virtual reality is currently been substituted by news media fallacies.Yet we will someday wake up to a very similar world than Matrix. The
rebels will be Anons, Assanges and Snowdens while the electronic
virtual reality will try its best to become "virtually real".I just hope plenty of us remain awake and aware of the changes taking
place.Welcome to the a new world where fiction overwhelms reality.Never forget. Never forgive

******
16 August 2014
10
I found this movie to be awesome! The acting is good. The scenes are
brilliant and everything else about it makes it deserving to be one of
the best movies ever made. Anyone else have differing opinions? Feel
free to share them. The humour is also good. I don't know what else to
say. The only movie that I think is better than The Matrix is The Shaw
shank Redemption. Other than that, the movie is well made. Seriously
awesome. This beats movies nowadays by a long shot. This is why its on
my Watch list. It is awesome. Really Really Good. This information is
really worth reading. The movie adds drama and action to make the
audience more excited and continuing to become intrigued and fascinated
by the movie. They will want more.

******
16 August 2014
10
There are two realities, one in the world that we live in, the other is
fictional, virtual.One is a dream, another MATRIX."Have you ever had a dream in which you're not sure at all it was? What
if you fail to get out of there? How will you differentiate real and
unreal? " Neo explores the truth about the Matrix, although there knows
only from stories. Something unknown, mysterious, something that
controls his life. What is the Matrix? Neo believes that Morpheus only
be able to answer. He is a living legend, dangerous, elusive,
mysterious. One night, Neo meets with the Trinity who takes him to the
underworld. There he meets Morpheus, who has a simple logic: "No one
can tell you what the MATRIX. You have to work hard I may know." A bit
disappointed, Neo already suspected that Morpheus "one who knows".
Cypher is the Morpheus team. He is also skeptical. There are groups of
people who kept MATRIX. They are led by Agent Smith, who has a
frightening methods to manage and to preserve the secret of the Matrix.

******
14 August 2014
9
The Matrix is probably my favorite action film of all time. Not only
are the martial arts and gun battles so entertaining, but the plot is
extremely original and keeps you guessing throughout the entire film.
No doubt the best film in the Matrix Trilogy, it never fails to keep
the viewer interested. The film, despite it's complicated premise, has very few plot holes,
other than miutia. Plus it's ideas have never before been explored, so
how can we question them. All in all, an amazing film with great
performances, especially by Hugo Weaving and Lawerence Fisburn. What
can I say? I love the Matrix.

******
10 August 2014
9
After their remarkable debut movie 'Bound' in 1996, the Wachowski
Siblings come up with their incredible and revolutionary sci-fi
thriller 'The Matrix'. These siblings always know how to enthrall both
the mind and the heart. With such a brilliant concept, spectacular and
innovative action sequences, and a gripping story, they keep you hooked
and in awe throughout the movie. The characters, the dialogues and the
scenes have become legendary now. No matter how many times you watch
it, it thrills you every single time.The movie can be seen as a stand-alone one or the first part of the
trilogy; no matter how you watch it, it's simply brilliant. It is a
metaphor and allegory for so many things. Mainly, it tries to tell how
our urban lives are so commercialized and media-driven that we're
almost blinded by it. The film blurs the lines between fate and
reality; ultimately, it depends on us as to how we take our life
forward. A life of ignorance or a life based on knowledge - though
happiness/satisfaction is possible either way, only one of them can
keep a particular person happy; sometimes, it's our choice what we
choose to go forward with, and we should have the strength to go
forward with the choice we've made.An average living-day-to-day guy waking up one day to find himself to
be different, important, and many people depending on him - Who hasn't
had that dream? This would be one of the most full-fledged and
elaborate execution of that fantasy.Bill Pope's cinematography and Zach Staenberg's editing make the action
sequences seem out of this world (pun intended); it takes you to a
completely different level of cinematic action. I remember, when I
first saw the movie (back in 2000 or something), I was completely blown
away.Keanu Reeves is perfect for the role of Neo, and he slides in perfectly
into the character of the young naive programmer trying to understand
and grasp the limits (or should I say, no limits) of the new reality
presented before him. Carrie-Anne Moss, Laurence Fishburne, and Hugo
Weaving perform commendably, and form outstanding and memorable
supporting characters of Trinity, Morpheus and Agent Smith
respectively. Each one of them has their own unique part to play.From the prophecy of 'The One' to self doubt, there are many Christian
references in the film, and there are influences from other religions
as well. Influence doesn't matter, as long as it leads to the creation
of something unique and exceptional. Japanese anime and Asian martial
arts films had great influence on the Wachowski Siblings, but it was
Mamoru Oshii's 1995 animated film 'Ghost in the Shell' that pushed them
to delve into the cyberpunk genre. And as we all know it now, the
result was one-of-a-kind.

******
10 August 2014
9
1999 was an excellent year movie-wise. American Beauty, Fight club, The
Green Mile, Being John Malkovich... all excellent movies. Now this is
something different. This is not just a great movie, it also marks the
end of the 20th century and the beginning of the 2000s decade. I mean,
just how more 2000s does it get than Keanu Reeves in a black robe
avoiding bullets? The Matrix is a classic. It has already become a classic. From the
red-and-blue pills scene to the "I know kung fu" quote (the decade's
"We'll always have Paris" or "I am your father", if you allow me the
exaggeration), going through Neo's awakening schene, this movie is
already deeply embedded in popular culture. And it deserves to: it is
beautifully shot, the story is very well-paced, it is entertaining and
it does include enough elements potentially iconic (Morpheus'
sunglasses, Agent Smith's accent...). But what makes this movie a
classic, beyond anything else, is the issues it deals with. What makes
a classic is its "timeless quality", as Wikipedia says. And for
something to be timeless, it must relate to Humanity's core, those
things that can be reach both me and someone who was born in 2 A.D. Now something that every human can relate to is feelings. Love, pain,
fear of death. Which is why most classics are love stories (just think
of Romeo and Juliet). But this is not what The Matrix mainly brings
about. What makes The Matrix a classic is that it deals with those big
questions that have troubled philosophers (and people in general) since
Socrates' times. I'm not gonna list all the philosophical issues in
here because somebody has probably already done it, but let me quickly
enumerate a few from the top of my mind: duality mind-body, evil genius
dilemma, freedom as moral self-direction (I cannot set free somebody
else but myself), man-machine relationship, Utopia, the issue of fate,
the "what makes a human being" question (our own impulses according to
Mouse), my freedom's interaction and interdependence with the
subjectivities around me... If I was a philosophy teacher, I would
totally screen this movie on the first day of classes. Needless to say this is a must-see, specially that hour between the red
pill and the plot's main complication, just before all the action
starts. That part of the movie is worth watching three, four times,
because it's not something you see everyday.

******
6 August 2014
9
Title: The Matrix Condensed Storyline: A computer hacker learns about the truth of the
world and has to try and save it from the computers by being 'The One' Notable Acting: This movie has a great main cast consisting of Keanu
Reeves, Laurence Fishburn, Carrie-Anne Moss and Hugo Weaving. These are
the only characters who actually matter and who provide good acting.
Sure Joe Pantoliano and Marcus Chong provide their good parts, but
they're just secondary characters who get minimal character
development. Noticeable Camera work: This movie is great for its dolly shot and its
180º shots, these are only used during the fight scene which makes them
special as they are not over used, but apart from that there are few
other good shots which they use to good effect as the rest is left up
to standard shotsGraphics: This movie had the best CGI for that period of time and it's
CGI still stands up amazingly in the standards set by today. Incorrect Science: The plot revolves around humans being used a
batteries, hence why there are massive farms of them. But humans cannot
generate chemical, thermal or electrical energy without a food source
which provides them without enough energy to do so. In short this means
it takes more energy to keep humans alive than a human body produces.
So the machines are working a flawed system. The second time Morpheus
calls Neo he says that "this is a tapped line" and proceeds to tell Neo
where to meet Trinity. If the line was tapped Trinity would have Agents
coming after her because Morpheus just gave away their position. In the
end of the movie Agent Smith shoots Neo with a Desert Eagle, a weapon
of that caliber would go through Neo and into the wall, but we only see
a blood smear and no hole in the wall. Overall Feel: The first opening scene of this movie was done on a
$10million budget, once it was shown to the people at Warner, they were
then allowed the Wachowski Brothers to have the $80million that they
originally asked for. That was just a little bit of trivia for you.
This movie was ahead of its time in its usage of CGI, it is a movie
which can still rival a few movies which are made today. Amazing
mixture of good acting, great CGI and good camera work.

******
6 August 2014
10
The Matrix is an awesome sci-fi movie that is both original and
extremely philosophical. The Matrix is not a typical cliché full sci-fi
movie as it gives you another meaning to life and the scary and very
possible chance that it could be real. I won't give much away as it
would ruin the movie completely. I rated The Matrix 10/10 straight away
because the movie blows your mind as it is action packed, full of
awesome scenes and a selection of great actors. The Matrix is currently
19th on the IMDb top 250 movies and deservedly so as many people would
agree, the Matrix is definitely of the greatest movies ever made.
Highly recommended to anyone who is mature enough to understand the
movie properly.

******
5 August 2014
9
But what makes The Matrix several cuts above the rest of the films in
its genre is that there are simply no loopholes. The script, written by
the Wachowski brothers is intelligent but carefully not geeky. The
kung-fu sequences were deftly shot -- something even Bruce Lee would've
been proud of. The photography was breathtaking. (I bet if you had to
cut every frame on the reel and had it developed and printed, every
single frame would stand on its own.) And the acting? Maybe not the
best Keanu Reeves but name me an actor who has box-office appeal but
could portray the uneasy and vulnerable protagonist, Neo, to a T the
way Reeves did. But, come to think of it, if you pit any actor beside
Laurence Fishburne, you're bound to confuse that actor for bad acting.
As Morpheus, Mr. Fishburne is simply wicked! Shades of his mentor-role
in Higher Learning, nobody exudes that aura of quiet intensity than Mr.
Fishburne. His character, battle-scarred but always composed Morpheus,
is given an extra dose of mortality (He loves Neo to a fault.) only Mr.
Fishburne can flesh out.

******
29 July 2014
10
Awesome movie. Great plot and action scenes. This is one of the best
sci-fi films I've ever seen. I love it. I also likes the sequels but
they don't get any close to the original. I loved the part when Neo and
Trinity are fighting all those agents on the rooftop and then one of
the Smiths points a gun at Neo and Trinity shoots him saying DODGE
THIS. It was so awesome!! After watching this movie i found myself
making references of it (i know, nerd!!!!). What i'm trying to say is
that this film has some of the best lines of dialog and some of the
most remarkable scenes in the history of cinema. For a quick
conclusion, if you want to watch a great action flick and complex plot,
this is the film you should watch.

******
29 July 2014
10
What if I told you this is movie is in my top five must see list? What
a great flick to make you think! I love that there are many aspects of
the film that do not make since right away, I know that sounds weird,
but I enjoyed that. It had me on the edge of my seat... is NEO the one?
Is he the one to fulfill the prophecy? Its just so good! I love all the
little "Alice in Wonderland" feel nuggets in the movie, like the
"follow the white rabbit" and "see how far the rabbit hole goes" makes
me wonder if i would take the red or the blue pill myself. I recommend
this flick to anyone who likes a good syfi flick and movies to make you
think.

******
25 July 2014
9
This is one of my favorite movies in the camp of sci-fi. camp. First,
it has great special effect and excellent choice in soundtrack The thematic has a hole holistic vision of a hypothetic society living
under the idea and convinced of "true" and only reality, it makes you
think in another level, when you really understand the point of be
Alive and death, everybody needs to think perhaps in the alternative
reality. But the most important question here is: What is real and
what is not?.This Question has alternatives answers cause finally the "true" is what
you decide to want to believe, right?...

******
22 July 2014
10
This movie tells the story the story of Neo(Keanu Reeves), a computer
hacker. But the world in which we live in is a lie and is called the
matrix. After Neo discovers this after meeting Trinity (Carie Anne
Moss) and Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), amazing action sequences ensue
with a great villain (Hugo Weaving).The special effects were
revolutionary for the time and still hold up marvelously, but this
movie isn't just special effects, it makes you question your own
existence. The movie is structured very well, it starts with a small
action scene, then some character moments, then some revelation, then
some action then characters and some more revelation and finally,
awesome action which you won't forget. It's Keanu Reeves' best
performance. Visually, it looks amazing. This is the finest work by the
Wachowski "Brothers" (Andy and Lana Wachowski). It's an unforgettable
classic that will stay in your mind for a long time after you watch it.

******
22 July 2014
9
Science fiction can toy with our minds like a filter in our home that
won't stop bleeping. "The Matrix" is one of those complex and sometimes
uncomprehending to some sci-fi thrillers that is so visually
entertaining that you might get lost from it's original story. Pay
attention to this! Thomas A. Anderson (Keanu Reeves) is a computer
programmer and hacker known as Neo. Neo has always questioned his
reality, but the truth is far beyond his imagination. Neo finds himself
targeted by the police when he is contacted by Morpheus (Laurence
Fishburne), a legendary computer hacker outlawed by the government.
Morpheus awakens Neo to the real world, a devastating world where
humanity has been controlled by a race of machines that live off of the
humans' body heat and energy and manipulate their minds within an
artificial reality known as the Matrix. As a rebel against the
machines, Neo must return to the Matrix and confront the agents. The
plot is very science related but is a little confusing. That doesn't
prevent pure cinematic entertainment from being replaced. The visual
content "The Matrix' contains is historical. Intense shootouts and
bizarre production designs make this not only fun to watch, but more
and more intriguing and interesting as the film carries on. This film
is a Wachowski brothers film, as they wrote and directed it. The ideas
they capture are very nerdy but none the less awesome. They allow an
incredibly complex science film relate to some of the coolest action
films that take place in normal time period by adding elements like
shootouts and cheesy dialogue to make it popcorny and not all complex.
The legendary costumes with the suits, classes and capes all make the
film's setting unique and fun. The film can also bring up interesting
ideas about protecting humanity. rising up against corruption and
enjoying simple life-styles. The differences are very different in the
Matrix world than in the real world, but we find many interesting
similarities to our world that this electric and kinetic world has to
offer. Visual films that make you think a little are the perfect
combination of fun and intelligence. Adding them up is a tough process,
so we'll see which side you end up on: Thinking, enjoying the action,
or both?

******
28 June 2014
9
The film is a great mix of action, sci-fi and drama. It takes you to
heights you've never been before. It can probably glue you to the chair
and keep you from doing anything else.The directors did a great job with the movie. The detail of the effects
set higher standards for the industry and probably will get placed in
history as 'the matrix' effect.The actors are incredibly believable and can keep up with the movie's
rhythm and tone. The dialogs are not-your-every-day-movie ones but
instead lead you to actually believe whatever the movie states.
Fishburne does a great role and this is probably Reeves' greatest role
ever.

******
27 June 2014
10
Im trying a little different approach in this review since there are so
many good reviews for this excellent film.I was 15y old when i saw this film and all i expected back than was a
cool sci-fi movie with some high end SFX. It changed the way i viewed the world and was one of the reason started
questioning more and accepting less things as a fact because others do
and introduced me unknowingly to a lot of concepts of Buddhism.Till today its in my all-time 5 movies, but it was way more than just a
high quality distraction of ca 2h.I'm very thankful to the Wachowski siblings to introduce me into the
Buddhist themes and recommend this film to anyone.

******
22 June 2014
10
With another Wachowski brothers movie on the horizon, I thought it
appropriate to go back and review their first ambitious offering. For a
movie that was produced in early 1999, everything about the movie still
feels new. Of course some of the tech has changed over the past 15
years but it's not a hard stretch to picture that this movie takes
place in today's world. The movie challenges the viewer with questions
we have all asked ourselves, What would I do to preserve or gain
freedom? , Is reality real? and Do I control my future or is it already
decided for me by fate? The theme the Wachowski brothers present in the
movie is one of basic human needs, one all humans can relate to,
freedom and freewill. This theme is presented early as we discover
Thomas Anderson, played by Keanu Reeves, is leading a double life. One
where in the day time he is working for a successful software company
as a developer and at night he is known as the underground hacker Neo.
For those that know, working a 9 to 5 job is necessary but sometimes
feels like a prison. I believe this is why the alter ego of Neo
personifies the act of expressing freedom. By actively defying the man,
Neo shows that there is something missing in his existence that he is
trying to fill. This is where Morpheus, played by Laurence Fishburne,
comes into the picture. He offers Neo a chance to find out what true
freedom is by offering a way out of his normal routine with a simple
choice, red pill or blue pill. Neo chooses to "go down the rabbit hole"
and this is where he and the viewer discovers that the reality
presented previous to this moments was all a simulation known as the
Matrix that robots had created to simulate actual existence in order to
keep the humans complacent as a power source. Once Neo is ejected from
the Matrix he learns that the real reality is one that is bleak. The
world has all but been destroyed in a human versus robot war that lead
to the near extinction of the human race and the near destruction of
earth. He is presented with a reality were humans are not the dominate
species, but one that live a life of fear and seclusion. This motif
paints a desolate picture and makes the viewer and Neo question wither
it was the right decision to leave the Matrix. This plays well into the
threat to the real reality, as among them, Cypher, played by Joe
Pantoliano, does not think the "real" reality was the right choice at
all and would do anything to "be ignorant" once again. Once we learn of
the Matrix, the Wachowski brothers use some interesting techniques in
their filming to highlight the hyper-reality of the matrix. They
accomplish this in many of the action scenes of the movie by using the
slow motion effect to emphasize the speed at which the humans that are
jacked into the matrix can move. One scene in particular is where Neo
successfully avoids being shot by moving out of the way of bullets as
they are hurling towards him. The main conflict in the story is between
the machines and the humans. The machine want to extinguish any
remaining human resistance so they can continue to use the human as a
power source unchallenged. They do this in the real world by deploying
very aggressive, seek and destroy tactics executed by Sentinel robots.
Likewise in the matrix there are regulator programs know as "Agents"
that are actively policing any anomalies like foreign minds in the
system. These oppressive concepts tie right back into the main them of
freedom and freewill, the one thing the humans are seeking for
themselves and all of the other humans trapped in the matrix. The key
component in this conflict is Neo. He is recognized as "The One" that
can over through the system, however it is not always clear if he is
the actual One or not. There is a scene shortly after Neo exits the
matrix where he is taken to see a prophet known as The Oracle, played
by Gloria Foster. In his meeting with the Oracle she tells Neo that he
is in fact not the one and challenges him with a life or death
scenario. This is where the theme of freewill versus fate come into the
balance as Neo struggles with what was revealed to him. As the movie
plays out Neo is revealed to truly be "The One" as he chooses to not
let Morpheus sacrifice himself based on what was revealed to him by the
Oracle. In this act he reveals that he indeed can manipulate the matrix
to his own will. However it is not fully revealed until Neo actually
dies. In this scene the sound is focused on Trinity's voice, played by
Carrie-Anne Moss, as she explains that Neo cannot be dead because the
Oracle told her that she would fall in love with "The One". Just at the
nick of time as the Sentinels were destroying the human ship, Neo
reanimates and now has full control of the Matrix and destroys Agent
Smith , played by Hugo Weaving, just before exiting the Matrix in time
to destroy the Sentinels with an EMP. The Matrix does a very good job
at emphasizing its theme of freedom and freewill. The use of a great
story and ground breaking visual effects for its time, really make this
movie withstand the test of time and makes it and instant classic. I do
not anticipate any time in the foreseeable future that a viewer will
not be able to relate to the theme presented in the movie. If history
has taught us anything, it's that freedom and freewill will always be
front and foremost on the minds of all human beings.

******
21 June 2014
8
Wachowski Brothers brings the art of visual to our eyes. Couldn't
forget the fallen green characters that's appear on the screen and
until now I'm still keep this screen saver.It was and it still is one of my favorite movie of all time. Mr.
Anderson, Trinity, Agent Smith, these are the classic.The story told in "The Matrix" is really important to this world
because no one knows the future and it shows how could it be and how
A.I. may be. It's a warning to humanity. Surely, An unmissable film and
truly a movie for all audiences. This movie is a good pop-corn movie to
see it at home out of curiosity

******
15 June 2014
8
It's been over 10 years since I've seen the Matrix, and to be
completely honest with you, back then, I didn't really get it the way I
did this time. When the film was made it was a huge risk for the
production company, as it was extremely expensive, and featured a first
a time Director, using a new kind of computerized effects. 15 years
later and the film is considered to be one of the best science fiction
movies ever made. For those unfamiliar with the story, it takes place
200 years in the future, a time where machines have taken control of
the planet and 99% of humans live in blissful ignorance, as pawns in
stasis, living out there lives in a dreamworld called the Matrix. The
other 1% know the truth and will do whatever it takes to defeat the
machines. The crew of the Nebuchadnezzar leads the charge, following an
ancient prophecy, that says they will one day discover a human with
extraordinary abilities, that will lead to the destruction of the
Matrix. That man is named Neo and is played by Keanu Reeves, in what
many consider to be his crowning achievement. Reeves is often put down
for being too dark and emotionless in his roles, but that is exactly
what the role of Neo calls for, making Reeves the perfect choice to
play him. Reeves is paired with veteran actor Laurence Fishburne, who
as Morpheus, is like the pope of this new world. He is the one who
discovered the prophecy and who risks everything for Neo. The story of
the Matrix is one of the most original to come alone in decades,
featuring a perfectly cast group of actors, who are aided by special
effects, the likes of which had never been seen before. These effects
are common place in 2014, but were unheard of in 1999, and really
helped cement the reputation of this classic. The Matrix may not be the
perfect movie and in fact, a lot of people won't understand it, but
it's a film that people will be watching 200 years from now, when the
events of the film supposedly take place.

******
6 June 2014
7
Films like The Matrix do not come often. It boasts a complex storyline
and fascinating concept. It creates an alternate reality so tangible,
one could truly believe in its existence. The Matrix is a film as
ambitious as they come. And while it's is not without flaw (and indeed,
there are many), The Matrix is so refreshingly original and
delightfully entertaining, that many problems can be overlooked. What
cannot be overlooked, however, is the final 5 minutes, which is among
the worst endings in memory.Spoiling as little as possible (though it's rare to find someone these
days that haven't yet see this film), The Matrix creates the idea that
the world we live in, is not real. It is, in fact, something called,
The Matrix. The audience explores the true world with the protagonist,
Thomas A. Anderson, as he struggles to comprehend the extent of this
revolutionary discovery.The concept is terribly fascinating. It's hard to explain anything at
all without spoiling things, but it is ingenious. Many have argued that
it's not entirely original, and I agree, there are definitely elements
lifted from other Sci-Fi films, but they're arranged in such a way (and
given enough subtle changes) to make a satisfying and intriguing
concept.The story is complex, and confusion is almost necessary. The film
possesses an almost dream-like quality, in which little makes sense
(likely intentionally). Scenes cut to and fro with little transition or
fanfare, adding to the dream-like aesthetic of the film. One would be forgiven for criticizing the film for suggesting far too
many questions (and supporting them with far too few answers). And
while it is a tad irksome, many of these questions are probably better
left to the imagination. Other notable flaws include some expository
lines (that do a poor job of concealing themselves), and some weak
writing at times.But the biggest problem with this film (and the only really significant
detriment) is the ending; specifically the last 5 minutes. To explain
everything that's problematic with the ending would take a far greater
deal of time than anyone has to write nor read about. Never mind the
fact that this is a spoiler-free review!To put it as simply and spoiler-free as possible, the ending is
inconclusive. Not in the way that inspires sequels (though this film
has spawned two add-ons to date), but rather, it doesn't resolve
anything. The dilemma created at the beginning of the film is not dealt
with, and the film doesn't acknowledge this. Even had it been left as a
cliffhanger for a sequel, I might have forgiven it. But instead, it
looks at the sky and whistles innocently, completely ignoring the fact
that it's fascinating concept has been left alone. In fact, after the
concept is established, The Matrix reverts to a high-level heist film -
that is still engrossing, and smashingly put together, but it's lacking
the brilliance that it initially promises.On top of that, the ending gives way to a lot of conveniences and cop-
outs, and is both very un-cinematic, and highly anti-climatic. There are a good number of action sequences, and they are exceptionally
crafted, though there are certainly too many of them. The Kung-Fu is
cool, and even some of the shoot 'em ups are neat, but they become
exhausting after a while. And one can only watch nameless henchmen miss
the protagonists so much before becoming skeptical. Also, the
gratuitous amount of slo-mo just comes across as dated, and the
excessive amount of destruction in the last hour just makes the film
seem like it's trying too hard; especially when there's a very
interesting concept that feels like it's been ignored in favor of said
action and destruction. Still, there's an excellent chase sequence at
the very end that's among the best in recent memory.Keanu Reeves is engaging in the lead, and Laurence Fishburne is solid
alongside Reeves (though he talks in an odd, robotic way - perhaps
intentionally). Hugo Weaving also has an odd speech pattern in the role
of the antagonist, though he pulls it off much better. He's as menacing
as Sci-Fi villains get. The supporting cast is good, but not great
(Matt Doran as Mouse fares the best).Don Davis' score does what a good score does; and that is improve the
film. Many scenes are significantly improved through Davis' music, as
it provides tension and texture. Though it occasionally gives way to
too much drums and not enough melody, it's an admirable effort that
gets the job done.The Matrix is the kind of film one can talk about for days. It has a
lot of depth and substance, and the plot is hugely complex and open for
interpretation. And yet, the pros and cons also merit discussion. The
Matrix scores a lot of points by simply being entertaining, smart, and
original. But the ending is so hugely unsatisfying that the 2 hours
preceding the final five minutes is nearly undone as a result of its
incompetence. The Matrix is a weird, wild ride. It's just a shame that
the payoff (if it can be called that) is so abysmally weak.

******
4 June 2014
8
A little philosophy mixed with lots of action and interpretations
Bright consecrated actors. This matrix in contemporary culture with
bezel divider: What we want and what we live! It is inexcusable to
strong affinities with the script and the growing need of the
individual contemporary escape their working hours and little resources
financial resources to a world in which he is full! Matrix contributes
to our dialectic: "You have two choices: Truth or Illusion In both can
live. I do not want to refer to incidents in a school in a city, a
country. The film is more than that! The franchise later had fewer
repercussions limited to damages continue history and add an ending
that please the fan of the series. regarding franchise earned millions
for producers and actors.

******
7 May 2014
8
I always try not to let bad sequels taint the otherwise remarkable
original film, but this tends to happen with "The Matrix"; I forget
just how good this movie really is. What's really surprising is just
how well this still holds up, fifteen years after the fact. It was
easily the greatest movie of 1999, and a high point of the decade. It's
not just an action movie with sweet kung fu and leather-clad gunfights,
but also one hell of a sci-fi trip; an honest-to-god journey through
the rabbit hole, seductive in its intriguing mystery and still riveting
after many viewings. The Wachowskis showed an incredible eye for
framing, shot composition and camera moves; this thing reeks of style.It's a classic any way you slice it, and a laundry list of memorable
scenes (the opening rooftop chase, Neo's unplugging, the SWAT ambush in
the apartment building, the lobby shootout, the helicopter crash, the
subway fight and subsequent chase). The agents still make for striking
imagery with their comically oversized Desert Eagles (I love Weaving's
intonation and line delivery).And while it's probably the most cartoonishly parodied movie of the
last half-century, those bullet-time effects and killer fight scenes
haven't lost their luster. 8/10

******
1 April 2014
9
The Matrix is the movie that changed the future of all movies. It's
amazing to think this was released in 1999 - 15 years ago already! If
you haven't seen it, you must do. This movie can be single handedly
thanked for the development and implementation of next level CGI.From the fight scenes, to the high level detail in the computer
generated scenes, you are always left wanting more. The film continues
at a high pace throughout and continues to develop all the way to the
final minute.9/10 - there will never be a movie like it again. It is a must watch
for all movie watchers.

******
24 March 2014
10
This movie represents a sublimation of couple religions, mystical
teachings as well as some forgotten orders manifestos. You can see it
from the names of characters, their ships, coincidental numbers (like
door number) and in mear film you can recognize some interesting
patterns as movie goes to an end. With no pacticural wish to reveal a
story plot, I can say that this movie is best idea movie ever made. No
just political views of directors, but also strong influence of
directors religious ideas are put in this movie. Never the less very
much worth of watching! Beneath a movie there is a secret story that is
up to audience to see it! Some unreveal history as well as some
infomrations about our system, our planet as such. Contemploary
searching of ones soul..

******
6 February 2014
10
When The Matrix first came out I was awestruck by the revolutionary
special effects back then. I'll be honest I wasn't sure Keanu Reeves
could pull off such a dramatic role, but like so many others, I was
relieved to be proved wrong. I believe to this day this movie still
feels fresh and does not seem dated at all. I loved the entire trilogy
but as most will also attest the first one made the best sense! A true
classic for the ages. Now the plot line is a bit complicated but the
Watchowski Brothers filled in the gaps brilliantly. You didn't know
that reality was in the matrix till the end. Or the matrix was reality,
a paradigm for the ages.

******
29 January 2014
9
I've seen this film ( along with the other 2 ) at least 4 times. There
aren't many films where the final conclusion remains unclear, but in
the case of this story, it works well. the underlying theme is how we
are fooled by the system,somehow controlled.This first instalment sets
the pace and clues for the viewer to THINK about the film. As the
trilogy unfolds, it is suggested that Neo's actions and predicaments
have been played out over and over again. Zion's citizens may not have
achieved freedom this time round - or have they? This film quickly
establishes the characters,and the actors deliver a great performance
that is a challenge for such a cerebral film. Of course it can be
watched for sheer entertainment if one does not want to decipher the
subplots and symbolism ( some have interpreted a Christian
theme/message to it ), there is a whole load of impressive visual
effects and feisty, fast paced action to enjoy.

******
27 December 2013
7
"Neo" (Keanu Reeves) is a computer programmer who is attempting to
discover a hidden truth on his own which others want to remain hidden.
Then one day he is contacted by certain people who have decided to
reveal this truth to him but warn him that it carries great risk. He
has to decide whether to accept this risk or not. Anyway, rather than
reveal any more of the plot and risk spoiling the film for those who
haven't seen it I will just say that this was a pretty good
science-fiction movie that incorporates good special effects and lots
of action. Or perhaps its more accurate to say that this is a good
action film that relies upon science-fiction and special effects.
Either way it's a pretty good film and the only reason I didn't rate it
higher was that I thought some of the dialogue was a bit weak and the
action went a bit overboard. All things considered then I rate this
movie as above average and I recommend it to those who enjoy
science-fiction and action movies all rolled into one.

******
24 November 2013
10
In my opinion one of, if not, best movie ever made. It share a lot with
the movie Dark City from 1998.There is a prequel called "Animatrix" that explains a lot of what
happened before this movie. Its a dark future for humanity where we
created a AI that we ended up fighting a war against, a war we lost.The main character is Neo, a normal person who has a strong belief
there is something wrong with the world he lives in. He cant put his
finger on it but he is searching for something, what is unclear to him.The antagonist is a agent who hates humans, he see them as a virus who
contaminate everything they touch. He can take the form of any human in
the Matrix.I strongly suggest watching the movie if you haven't already, the next
two movies don't come close but is still a nice watch. If you want to
get a deeper understand and enjoy the movie even more watch "Animatrix"
first!

******
19 November 2013
10
The Matrix is still one of the greatest science fiction movies of all
time and it changed that genre of movies forever after it by being so
far ahead of the game with the visual effects it used and also it had
great story telling. Bullet time was brought about in a big way in this
movie and it can be taken for granted now but it is hard to remember
how huge and groundbreaking it was when this movie came out, it looked
amazing and seemed like magic! The fact that it seems old now is due to
the fact everyone uses it all the time now and the reason they do that
is because it was so damn good! The acting in the movie is great with a
very good job done casting the movie, one of the only movies I can
stand Keanu Reeves in as he is cast perfectly in a role that suits him,
very good at doing the fight scenes too, all of the fight scenes in
this movie are a cut above the rest, with some really all-time great
scenes in this film. Action, great story, great effects, good acting,
groundbreaking and unique, it all adds up to a perfect sci fi movie
experience!

******
12 September 2013
10
The Matrix touches on some truths with spiritual undertones!It focuses on two types of people in this world: (1) those who prefer
to live in their own little world, oblivious to the what's going on in
the world around them. and (2) those who prefer to know the truth and
combat it head on.The spiritual overtones come in the form of some very profound dialog
in the script. It is also prevalent during scenes of revelation! I
remember hearing reference to The Matrix in several different pulpits
paralleling biblical principles.The Matrix, in my humble opinion, is a classic and a must buy/own. It
is also a wonderful movie for the entire family, especially for parents
and their children, as it fosters healthy dialog afterward.I give it a THUMBS UP and 5 STARS!

******
9 September 2013
10
This blew my mind in all the right ways. It opened my mind up to other
possibilities like designer drugs capable of opening up parts of our
mind not accessed before my conventional means? If you open up your
mind to the literal of possibilities, then anything can happen really?
This film is the first of many that opened my eyes up to the wider
world. Im not saying Lizard people exist, i do not know that and why 10
lines minimum? Keanu Reeves is a good actor and made this film for me.
He did it much justice. The special effects were and still are very
good. The plot is great also. It never bored me at all. Have a nice day
and i hate doing reviews man, 10 lines long whats all that about?

******
30 April 2013
10
At the time of it's creation, The Matrix was a real breakthrough.
Combining superior special effect with kung-fu action and a
groundbreaking plot, it managed to become a milestone in movie making,
not necessarily limited to it's genre.If you're into SF, you've recognized the influence of William Gibson's
Neuromancer and, to a lesser extent, Blade Runner (1982). And both
would have led to Philip K. Dick's questioning the reality. More than
that, there was almost a philosophical background to the story.At any rate, The Matrix was released in the time when internet has
still been explored, rather than an everyday tool. It showcased
everything we've craved for while playing games on PC and game
consoles. And today when we basically live online, it is hard not to
remember what this movie forecasts for the near future.

******
10 December 2012
10
I watched this the other week for the first time in years and i was
still blown away by the it visually. When The Matrix was released, it
was such a landmark in the world of sci-fi, with it's imaginative,
creative, original and clever storyline, everything about it is just
unbelievably fantastic. The action scenes and special effects still
hold up just beautifully and will blow you away. The Matrix is one of
those films that had to be seen at the cinema. I would love to watch
this again on the big screen. Once you watch The Matrix you will never
ever forget it for a long time, as it just keeps playing on your mind.
The storyline is amazing and will blow your mind. The entire film is
oozing with style and atmosphere from start to finish and all the
characters who will take you on that journey you just don't want to
end. The film sends out a very good and philosophical message. Yes.
This film has it all. The Matrix is a true genre classic by the
Wachowski's.

******
30 November 2012
10
There are two sides for this movie. On one hand, it is able to deliver
the excitement of an action movie, a bit of chasing, fighting and those
kind of stuff, but on a whole other level it approaches our daily life
with a very interesting perspective and makes the viewer question what
reality is. Some famous quotes have made their place in literature
about this concept. (Such as 'There is no spoon' or 'If real is what
you can feel, smell, taste and see, then 'real' is simply electrical
signals interpreted by your brain'). 'There is no spoon' is actually my
all time favorite movie quote. It is definitely a must-watch, both in
terms of entertainment and self thinking development.

******
24 May 2012
10
The all around brilliance of this movie comes from the multidimensional
themes of art, mythology, intellect and entertainment. It stands out
exceptional even in special effects and martial arts, so there is
something for everyone in it, and that is why it will remain as an all
time classic. My focus in this review will be on the myth of The
Matrix, the intellectual ideas and the questions that arise in the plot
and the dialogs, and these are as I have formulated them: What is real,
and by the same token, what is illusory? What is really behind the
complex, seductive, at times apparently chaotic and random, at times
apparently precisely timed and connected coincidences of the events and
between the people of the world? What controls all the events of the
world? Do individuals have any control at all through their choices and
decisions over what happens or will happen? Or is it all 'programmed'
or 'fated' in a scripted manner? In short, who or what runs the show?
Are all our perceptions the result of the cultural construct (the set
of perceptual interpretations and beliefs about the world 'taught' into
each one of us by our social, cultural 'teachers'), or do we have the
freedom to make our perception take flight into new territories, where
no one has ventured so far? What are the limits of this freedom and how
can we then meaningfully correlate with the existing knowledge matrix
(and this movie is itself part of The Matrix) of the now diffuse and
globalized culture of this world? These questions have been asked by
seers, visionaries and thinkers in all parts of the world for
millennia. The answers, descriptions, interpretations provided by these
people found in the various myths, are so diverse and different that
it's mind boggling to the non-thinker, but quite a challenge to the
explorer. Levi Strauss put it this way: "A theoretically infinite
number of versions of the myth will be generated, each slightly
different from the others. Myth thus becomes the third dimension of
language; in it a continuous attempt is made to reconcile the other two
dimensions of language - the diachronic and the synchronic. Because
complete reconciliation is impossible, myth grows spiral - wise until
the intellectual impulse which has produced it is exhausted. Myth grows
then, because, structurally, the contradiction - the asymmetry  which
gives it life cannot be resolved. Different versions are part of the
same myth precisely because a myth is not reducible to a single uniform
content, but is a dynamic structure. Eventually all the versions of a
myth have to be taken into consideration so as its structure can become
apparent." So if any of these questions has ever bothered you, then
welcome to The Matrix, the command and control system of the world that
is by the necessary order of things, hidden from us for the very simple
reason that it must be beyond individual manipulation (yes, the factual
flaw in the movie is that the Matrix can be hacked). The only thing
that The Matrix will allow is for the determined individual is to have
a glimpse or a series of images of itself, but the interpretation of
those is only one such interpretation that ideally should have
correlation to interpretations that others have given. "The test of a
true myth is that each time you return to it, new insights and
interpretations arise" (Starhawk). Good luck to you and hope you 'see'
The Matrix, that is, if you really want to.

******
28 February 2012
10
Like many people I was fairly awestruck by the special effects when I
first saw this film but was unsure how I would feel watching the film
again several years after I last saw it; after all special effects are
advancing all the time and this is over ten years old... I needn't have
worried; I enjoyed it just as much as I did first time.The story begins with computer hacker Neo receiving strange message
telling him somebody was about to knock on his door and that he should
'follow the white rabbit'; his door is knocked and his friends invite
him to come out with him; he is about to refuse when he sees a white
rabbit tattooed on one of their shoulders so goes with them. While out
he meets another hacker, a woman called Trinity, who tells him that the
legendary hacker Morpheus wants to meet with him. The next day at work
he receives a call telling him the authorities want to take him into
custody and he must follow precise instructions if he wishes to escape;
he fails to do this and is arrested. During the interview with Agent
Smith a strange bug is implanted and in a nightmarish manner his mouth
becomes fused closed! The next thing he knows he is waking up in his
apartment assuming it was just a strange nightmare but it soon becomes
apparent that is was real. Taken to Morpheus by Trinity he learns that
the world is not as it seems; he isn't in 1999 but 2199 and none of his
life so far has been real; his body is plugged into a giant machine and
he is experiencing something called The Matrix.Once woken he finds himself in a dead mechanical world with Morpheus,
Trinity and a few other free people; they mention the last human city;
Zion, but we never see it. Now he is free he must prepare to return to
The Matrix which means learning the skills he will need to survive and
gaining an understanding of what The Matrix really is. Once inside they
will have to avoid Agents, parts of the program that will hunt them
down as well as assuring that they stay hidden in the real world; if
they die in either place their life is over.This is a must see for all science fiction and action fans; it has a
fine story and spectacular action sequences; many of them reminiscent
of those in Chinese Wuxia films with characters running up walls and
doing impossible leaps... of course within The Matrix nothing is
impossible if you believe you can do it. Keanu Reaves might not have
the greatest acting range but he is just right for the role of Neo, a
man understandably a little confused at finding everything he had
experienced so far was unreal. Hugo Weaving is great as Agent Smith
bringing a sense of menace to the role. Other main actors Carrie Anne
Moss and Laurence Fishburne also perform well. Writer/directors the
Wachowski brothers did a great job; the film is incredibly stylish
without lacking substance. I can't imagine many people haven't watched
this but if you are one of those I strongly recommend checking it out.

******
25 September 2011
9
I saw this movie when it first came out, and can't really grasp the
idea that an entire decade has gone by since then. Watching today, it
still holds up as an exciting sci-fi action thriller, with effects that
still look relatively new even though many of them have been copied and
even parodied since. I have to admit, time travel, dream stories and
virtual reality films can leave you with your head hurting a bit, but
if you watch this one attentively, you'll find that it was cleverly
written leaving very little wiggle room for plot holes to creep
through.Essentially, 'The Matrix' is a computer generated dream world which
replaced the 'real' world that was destroyed at some point during the
twenty second century in a battle between humans and an artificial
intelligence. The AI won, and subsequently created an entire race of
machines feeding off the living energy of humans kept alive in a state
of suspended animation. The very few humans still alive wait for the
day that 'The One' will destroy the Matrix and free those under it's
control. To protect itself, The Matrix has created a race of machines
called Sentinels who track down humans, be it in the real world or in
The Matrix itself. This can all get a little confusing, so it's best to
take this all in with no distraction, because things move back and
forth between the two realms rather quickly.If you really want to take the concept of the picture a step further,
there's plenty here to dissect and analyze. For some, the religious and
philosophical elements conveyed by The Matrix and The One are quite
overt. One of the immediate thoughts that struck me was the parallel of
The Matrix to The Force in "Star Wars", an eternal and universal life
energy that unites all living creatures. The One can be interpreted as
The Savior, the Redeemer of Mankind who will set all of humanity free
from the curse of original sin, or in this case, the slavery of the
pods. I guess if you're skeptical of this philosophic/religious
connection, this will all be a lot of mumbo-jumbo, but to me it's a lot
more interesting to look at it that way than just seeing a bunch of
special effects involving insane martial arts moves and time stopping
bullets in flight.What I didn't care for so much was the make up of the Sentinels, not
the human ones but the machines. Personally, I thought Hugo Weaving was
great as Agent Smith in his relentless pursuit of Neo. But the idea of
those squid-like battle ships attacking the Nebuchadnezzar seemed to
defy a certain logic. Wasn't Zion, the last human city located
underground? The concept of The Oracle also catches one a bit off guard
as well. I mean, my idea of an Oracle, who was supposed to know
everything about The Resistance since the beginning, wasn't exactly
that of an old woman who smokes cigarettes and bakes cookies. This
introduction of a bit of whimsy might have been intriguing to the
Wachowski Brothers, so if that's the case, I guess I can go along with
it.Anyway, I like the idea of The Matrix and I like the movie. I can't say
as much about the sequels, and it's been some time since I've seen
those as well. I'll get around to them again eventually.

******
17 September 2011
10
Intriguing, mind-blowing and a flat out fun movie. The Matrix has one
of the best uses of CGI, visual effects, special effects and slow
motion sequences I have ever seen in a movie. Keanu Reeves, Laurence
Fishburne and Carrie-Ann Moss are definitely at the top of their game
in this CGI and visual effects spectacle. Hugo Weaving was absolutely
brilliant in his role as the lead agent. He has such a great charisma,
face, and voice. All of them make his character so vicious and
intimidating. He is just an amazing actor. Keanu Reeves role in this
movie is by far the best since his role in the movie Speed. The story
is told brilliantly. Another thing that makes this movie so brilliant
is the martial arts sequences. This movie will blow your mind.

******
10 August 2011
10
I love this movie because it is one of the best movies ever, the
special effects were magnificent for the time of year when the film was
shot, the story is interesting, the action is high, the effects are as
I said one of the best in 1999, the choice of actors is excellent, the
music played great role in the film, everyone who watched this movie
certainly has changed the view of the world for a moment and turned his
imagination, I am aware that the scene as a rooftop scene where Neo
avoids shots borrowed from Max Payne but who to pay attention to when
the film was the last word of computer technology for the time, so I
gave a ten, because every other word for this movie is redundant,
Wachowski Brothers thank you for this excellent film.

******
6 August 2011
10
There's a certain mystique to computer hacking, which is either
reflected or caused by this film, showcasing hackers as a group of
unruly punks in grungy places fighting the powers that be. There's also
a certain coolness to cyberpunk stories (which have never really been
translated to film that much, sadly enough), underscoring the symbiotic
relationship between man and machine. If you've ever read (much less
understand) William Gibson's novel "The Neuromancer," or seen the anime
film "Ghost in the Shell," you'll see strong themes regarding the
dangers and benefits of such a relationship.Put these elements together, and you'll get the foundations for this
film. It starts off as a thriller, with occasional surreal moments that
help keep a sense of mystery. In the second act, the movie spends its
time explaining its premise, and laying down the rules for the
environments the movie introduces (there is a dense universe to this
film, on the same level as "The Terminator"). Then, in the final act,
we are treated to a massive helping of glorious action sequences. There
are plenty of solid thrills throughout the film's middle, which keep
the pacing tight and even. But toward the end, we get some of the
coolest fight scenes ever filmed, one of the coolest gunfights ever
filmed, and some of the most original and imaginative special effects
ever developed. The action alone makes this film a must-see.But it's also the story that counts. It is as deep as it is original
(well, original for a film anyway). The characters show decent depth,
and by the end of the movie you really come to enjoy them. The story
has a solid structure and it is well-developed. Just about every moment
of it explores the main premise and all of its philosophical
implications; hardly a moment passes that won't make you wonder about
the nature of reality, and the nature of the human mind. There are many
nuances in the characters, story, writing, and even shot composition
that underscore all the movie's themes. On every viewing, the movie
presents something new to discover and contemplate.The film also shows apt quality. Its photography and editing are
top-notch and highly distinctive. Acting is swell all around; this is
probably Keanu Reeve's best performance in his career; Lawrence
Fishburne, Carrie-Ann Moss, Joe Pantiliano, and Hugo Weaving all
inhabit their characters very well. Writing is exceptionally strong.
Production value is strong and highly detailed; some sets look a little
fake and some of the special effects show their age, but they are
decent overall. Most sets, props, and costumes are cool. Music is very
cool too.Highly recommended! 5/5 (entertainment: 5/5, story: 5/5, film: 5/5)

******
6 December 2009
9
Writing down the review of "The Matrix" is itself a sturdy effort. I
will try but can't guarantee... :)"The Matrix" will always remain as a triumph in the genre of Science
Fiction. Filled with rich narrative, this movie was triumphant in
revolutionizing the thinking process of the viewers. The Wachowski
brothers have presented us with some story which we could have never
imagined even in our wildest dreams.Since this movie deals with a complex theme, this will require every
attention in order to comprehend the flow of the story. This movie is
definitely not for those who just like to see action without willing to
appreciate the philosophical approach and the depth of understanding.When it comes to casting, I think Wachowski brothers have made the
perfect choice for putting Keanu Reeves as 'Neo', I don't think any
other person could have pulled it so efficiently as him. Of course I
don't need to mention that Carrie Moss was perfect as 'Trinity', did I
miss some one wellwho will forget Hugo Weaving as 'Agent Smith', and
it was simply overwhelming.Action has been the integral part of this movie and will it be very
hard to believe that it had become the groundwork of many new movies
for the years to come. I think since so much innovative technique was
adopted for the visual effects; it was not difficult even for the
Academy Awards to be acquainted with and thus aptly awarding this movie
for its Sound & Visual effects.Well I had been the unlucky few to have missed this movie when it came
out to the theaters, but I did enjoy when the DVD came out. I must say
the DVD transmission was not at all regretful. Sound quality was top
notch.This movie had been the part of the Trilogy and comparing with the
other two movies, this had been the best as a stand alone very much
similar to the 'Terminator' Franchise."The Matrix" might have received mixed reviews but truthfully this was
one of the best science fiction movies which came out in the nineties.
This also had been successful in revitalizing the interest amongst us;
after all we go to Movie Theaters expecting to enjoy the show with a
mesmeric experience.

******
14 November 2009
10
well.....this is the movie i really want to watch as many times as
possible for just a simple reason. The perspective of this movie is
more than one can imagine. Its the rare combination of visual and
mental treatCasting is well shaped and conversations are carefully penned to make
it a great scientific fiction. Reeves is really the one.....kudos NEO,
so as agent smith and morpheus. The oracle character is purposely
created to give some answers for the question of viewers(though she
never gives a complete answer).To conclude,certainly this is the greatest science fiction film.But is
this the best film of all time? should be debatable.

******
23 October 2009
10
The Matrix is a truly awesome movie with a fantastic but complex
storyline that has some of the most incredible fighting and action
scenes i have ever scene in any movie. This is the type of movie that i
only intend to watch 10 minutes of and end up watching the entire movie
and all special bonus features. At the end of the movie i actually gave
it a standing ovation. the matrix is bye far the best Keanu Reeves
movie bye far as his martial arts skills kept me at the edge of my seat
throughout the whole movie. the directing is done in a very good way
really putting good emphasis on some of its fight scenes e.g slow
motion kicks and dodging bullets. like they say on the trailer the
matrix cannot be explained you have to see it for yourself.

******
21 October 2009
10
I consider it: Sci Fi / Action -10/10 Story - Interesting & complicated -10/10 Visual - One of the very best, even 10 years later -10/10 Action - One of the very best, even 10 years later -8/10 Acting - Nice acting, but a few cheesy lines -10/10 Flow - Very smooth & easy to follow -NA/10 Humor - Minimal, but not needed -10/10 Audio - Great sound -6/10 Predictability - Some things are predictable -10/10 Originality - Some very interesting ideas -10/10 Rewatchability - I know most of the lines by now -This is one of my favorite movies, and in my opinion sets the standard
all new Sci Fi movies to attempt to compare against. If you haven't
seen this, and you like any futuristic Sci Fi movies, you simply must
see all three Matrix movies.

******
20 August 2009
7
'The Matrix' contains some of the most spectacular special effects and
action sequences of any movie. Judged by those alone, it would
definitely qualify 10 stars. There's an excellent cast who make a
sterling effort on sets that must - for the most part be virtual. All
of the other standards of sound, lighting, directing are right on the
money.As to the script - well it's little more than an endless stream of
flatulent gobbledegook. Applaud or yawn, as you will. And as to the science fiction element; well that's plain bonkers.
Machines breeding humans to exploit their brain energy? Those machines
must be daft as brushes. There are far more efficient ways to create
power. We should know; we breed the other domesticated species for just
that purpose.Marvel at the technical elements but don't be taken in by them. This is
a very simple movie when the Gothic grandeur, computer junk, and action
sequences are set aside.I suspect that the strength of its appeal derives from the fact that it
is basically the time-honoured 'rite of passage story' which is
probably older than our own species. Basically; a young man must
advance and prove himself as leader, gain the respect of a loyal band,
then confront and defeat a powerful enemy. 'Star Wars', Lord of the
Rings', 'Harry Potter', 'Saving Private Ryan'; they're all retreads of
this ancient tribal format that is very likely instinctive in all human
males.

******
7 August 2009
7
Neo is a computer hacker searching for truths; he gets one bigger than
he imagined. A group of rebels, led by Morpheus, reveal that the entire
world is a simulation created by AI systems, and in the real world
humans are farmed purely for the energy they produce. What's more,
Morpheus believes Neo is a prophecied hero, the only man who can defeat
the machines. Scared and disoriented, what does fate have in store for
Neo ?The Matrix is a great action/sci-fi hybrid movie, with terrific fights
(choreographed by martial arts legend Woo-Ping Yuen), great special
effects and oodles of clever ideas, all mixed up into a thrill-a-minute
action blockbuster of the kind Hollywood does so well. It leaves you
breathless; the crazy ideas come so thick and fast, you're still
absorbing the plot before you're into the next eye-popping action
sequence. Having said that though, I must register a couple of
criticisms about this film, and specifically the way the publicity
machine marketed it as a revolutionary story with landmark visual
effects. I don't think the story is really that original - plenty of
movies have dealt with computer worlds (e.g. Tron, eXistenZ), the
conceptual ideas appear in lots of sf writing (notably Douglas Adams
and William Gibson), the structure comes from Alice In Wonderland and a
lot of the plot from Masamune Shirow's manga Ghost In The Shell. The
thing it reminds me of most is a 1976 Dr Who story called The Deadly
Assassin, which features an extended fight in a neural-network virtual
battleground called, you guessed it, The Matrix. So not so original
then. The story is also inconsistent - we never really know what powers
anyone has in the virtual world. Why does Neo survive death when we've
been explicitly told (and shown) you can't ? Why does everyone use
kung-fu - why not just mind-zap people ? Why does Agent Smith (a
terrific restrained snarling performance by Weaving) get emotional when
he's a computer program ? Having said that, I'd much rather watch a
film like this, filled with interesting quasi-religious/philosophical
ideas (the explanation for deja-vu, Smith's comparison of mankind to a
virus) but which leaves them all hanging, any day. My other bugbear is
the bullet-time shots, using multiple still cameras and computer
interpolation to track round a slow-mo or frozen image - these are
kinda cool I guess, but the movie has so much else going on, it doesn't
really need a gimmick. Undeniably, the technique has been hugely
influential though, particularly in videogames. What really scores for
me in this instead is the good old-fashioned basics of film-making -
good storytelling, great photography and music, a terrific sense of
undiluted escapism and fine performances - how does Fishburne keep
those sunglasses on ? Produced by Joel Silver, and followed by two
sequels, The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix Revolutions.

******
2 July 2009
10
I seriously don't get it when people in the above comments say "All
action, no story!!!", don't know what better story they are expecting.I mean, sure the story doesn't make you 'CRY' or feel sorry for someone
at the end. There are plenty of stories like that and to be honest they
are all like a formula or a pattern that they follow. This story makes you think, wonder, imagine, it fills you with awe,
every single step of the way. It leaves you with a feeling of
discovery, while you decipher the story, piece by piece. And finally,
the message is undeniable and universal- "One can achieve anything
he/she believes in". To me it will remain the most inspiring movie ever
made. Wachowski brothers, take a bow!

******
11 June 2009
9
The Matrix is an excellent sci-fi adventure with great action from the
Wachowski brothers who are admirable in making this movie about a
computer hacker who discovers that the world and the life he's been
living is an illusion. A computer generated dream world that was
created a long time ago to keep the humans in a prison from which only
a few can escape who are brave enough to fight the deadly machines that
have taken over the real world. I preferred this one over the two
disappointing sequels that followed. Reoladed was okay but could've
been better and Revolutions was the worst of the trilogy mainly because
the story lost focus on the main characters, the finale felt rushed,
and the ending that does leave the door open for another possible
sequel was a major letdown. The Matrix however is one of the best
sci-fi films out there because of the compelling story, complex
characters, a menacing villain, some humor, a little romance, and with
just enough intense action. Keanu Reeves stars as Neo the computer
hacker who discovers he has a greater destiny than he could have ever
imagine. He is the chosen One a man gifted with amazing abilities who
may be the only one powerful enough to stop the machines and free his
people. Reeves makes for a solid hero who may not win any awards for
his performance but he still does a good job in the role. The same can
go for Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus a man who believes in The One and
wants to free Neo in order to show him the truth about their world.
Fishburne is convincing as Morpheus and his fight sequences are
impressive especially his sparring match with Reeves. Carrie Anne Moss
is believable as the tough freedom fighter Trinity who begins to grow
feelings for Neo but she doesn't want to admit it. Moss also does a
great job in her fight sequences portraying a woman you definitely
wouldn't want to mess with. Hugo Weaving is an imposing villain as
Agent Smith a sentinel program who makes it his mission to stop Neo
from fulfilling his destiny. Weaving chews the scenery with menace and
does a terrific job with his part in the movie. The rest of the
supporting cast are admirable in their roles but none of them really
stand out. The action/fight sequences are well executed the ones that
left an impression being the first one that opens the movie, the
sparring match with Reeves and Fishburne, the lobby shootout, and the
fierce showdown between Neo and Agent Smith in a subway. The special
effects to create the machines and the ruins of the real world where
the machines have taken over which is shown a few times are
magnificently done. Also worth mentioning is the music by Don Davis
which seems to match perfect whats happening on the screen and the tone
of the film. The pacing of the movie was a little slow but once the
action kicks into high gear it moves at a steady pace from there. The
movie does leave a lot of questions unanswered but other than those few
flaws this is still an amazing sci-film that definitely impressed me
when I first saw it. So overall The Matrix is a great experience with
the state of the art special effects, a compelling story, intense
action, suspense, some humor, a little romance, and impressive
performances by the cast who make this an enjoyable sci-fi movie to
watch.

******
1 March 2009
9
The Matrix is a truly excellent movie. Although the movie is a bit hard
to follow the brilliant action scenes totally make up for it. This is
personally my favorite Matrix movie. This is one of the movies I have
watched the most. I bought the DVD - and I think it was certainly worth
it.The casting, acting and production of the movie is great. They chose
the perfect actor of Agent Smith and Neo. They suited their roles
perfectly and did an excellent job. The filming and camera angles were
great and made the action scenes as good as they were.Although, I wish the movie was easier to understand (I finally got it
after like the fifth time I watched it).This is certainly one of the best sci-fi movies ever made.

******
22 November 2008
9
What is the Matrix? Is it something like a machine that rules the
planet? It took me awhile to understand the concept of this movie. Now
that I grasped the big picture, I enjoyed this movie a lot more than I
did the first time I saw this film. This film is about a illegal
computer hacker, Neo who is wanted by a mysterious group led by the
even more mysterious Morpheus and the cops. Morpheus shows Neo what the
world is really like and who is in charge of the planet. Now Morpheus,
Neo, and the rest of the group must evade these alien-like droids that
appear as human. The fighting is great in this film. I am surprised
that there is plenty of kung-fu fighting. The special effects were even
better. They made this movie win a few Oscars. The acting is much
better than I anticipated. Keanu Reeves deserves a medal for acting
like an actor. I still need to watch this movie one more time to boost
my rating up to a 10. Currently, I rate this movie 9/10.

******
22 June 2008
8
I have watched The Matrix numerous times and always wondered about
Agent Smith's peculiar way of speaking. Today while watching a portion
of the old PBS series Cosmos by Carl Sagan, I thought they had used
Hugo Weaving's voice to narrate but it was indeed Carl Sagan with his
rounding of sounds, pausing and emphasizing, and pursed lips that was
speaking. Does anyone know if this is where Hugo Weaving drew
inspiration for his manner of speech in The Matrix series? As for the
series itself, movie #1 is by far the most exciting, after which the
Wachowski Bros writing devolves into a mismash of junk. The last two
movies have their moments but some scenes are painful to watch, I.E.
the rave and those awful loves scenes with Neo and Trinity.

******
29 December 2007
10
Matrix is an innovative movie as everyone knows but for me not because
of its special effects and action scenes It had transcend most sci-fi
action films because of its philosophy allowing oneself to know that
you can take control of your life and not allow society to dictate ones
existent if they're brave enough to see it and to work hard to achieve
their goal. I enjoy watching movies like this when you have the option
to except the entertaining value and also have the chose to be able to
look deeper and gain some profound life perspective.I enjoyed one specific scene, in which, Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving) is
talking to captured Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) and comparing humans
to viruses I thought that was interesting when I first saw Matrix in
1999 If you look at today's situation with global warming I think
Agent Smith did make a pretty good case.The special effects in Matrix where the best at that time but for me I
don't get caught up into special effects because it always get outdated
but a good story never does. You can still enjoy movies like Amadeus,
The Godfather and Schindler's List without worrying about how cheesy
the special effects are on the screen but I feel that Matrix story is
strong enough for a viewer to be more forgiving in the future. The last
two Matrix movies unfortunate don't have this airtight story to holdup
to future judgments because of little story and mostly mindless special
effects

******
28 November 2007
10
What is The Matrix? Oozing cool, this sci-fi action thriller draws
parallels from biblical stories, countless religions and ancient
Japanese lore. To say that it must be seen for yourself is no
understatement. Revolutionary special effects, spawning dozens of
notorious parodies, most notably during a 1999 Super Bowl commercial,
ultra hip wardrobes and Gatling gun action firepower, The Matrix
single-handedly saved Warner Bros. from a lengthy cinema slump, and put
the "awesome" back in R-rated films and black leather apparel.Neo (Keanu Reeves) is a computer hacker who is plagued by thoughts of
the indecipherability of the real world and the dream world. When he is
mysteriously contacted by Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), an infamous
and regaled underworld leader, he follows clues and the shapely
messenger Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) to unlock the secrets of the
Matrix. To know more would spoil the ingenious and surrealism of this
masterful film; needless to say, Neo wanders down the rabbit hole to
see how far it goes.Redefining cool, the action and stunts in The Matrix are nothing short
of unbelievable. Focusing heavily on carefully choreographed martial
arts battles and highflying helicopter stunts, this film will enliven
your faith in the action genre.Utilizing slow motion in a dance of magical cinematography, scenes
which would otherwise be exceptional are transformed into pure genius.
A helicopter shootout on a rooftop with gushing water, blazing bullets,
slow motion diving through mid-air, and a plethora of machine-gun
bullets kicking out of a mounted Gatling gun so hard and fast that they
fall like metal rain, is only one example of stylized action that is
truly beyond unique. In perhaps the most famous scene of the franchise,
Neo and Trinity march through a heavily guarded security terminal
packing dozens of automatic weapons  all in beautiful slow motion. To
see the look of shock on the security officers faces as they set off
the alarm and open fire on the unsuspecting guards is sheer bliss. What
ensues is the gunfight of the 20th century as they defy gravity and
blast their way through a hallway loaded with shotgun-toting SWAT
troopers.Magnificently blending science-fiction action and a good old-fashioned
love story, to delve too deeply into the intricacy of The Matrix is to
do it injustice. Complex and well-organized, the multiple colliding
themes of betrayal, destiny, fate and hope, help to serve up a
scrumptious cinematic dish. The detail-oriented acting and character
development is outstanding, and drives the film with sincerity and
determination. The sinister Agent Smith, played by Hugo Weaving, is
immortalized as one of the greatest screen villains and manages to be
cool and collected in a disconcerting manner, and startlingly
malevolent in his final confrontation with Neo. Laurence Fishburne's
Morpheus is stern, resolute and commanding. Trinity is the anti-femme
fatale, lithe and sexy in her shiny black leather and skillfully
deadly. These admirable and awe-inspiring characters are intertwined
into an intricate world magnificently crafted by the Wachowski
Brothers. Their previous feature, Bound, proved they had a knack for
eye-pleasing storytelling and characters. The Matrix is inspired by
many themes and ideas suggested in Japanese Manga comics, but the way
the characters and storyline is depicted is a vision for which they
deserve undivided credit.The special effects are particularly noteworthy as brand new technology
and CG methods were invented for several of the shocking fight
sequences. During the rooftop melee, bullets pierce the air around Neo
and he reels backward in an attempt to dodge them. While ripples of
waves circulate around the slowed down bullets, the camera circles
around him in over 360°. Special features on the DVD supplement The
Matrix Revisited delve into the complex camera set up and green screen
approach used for this often mimicked shot.Few science-fiction films have been so heavily praised, let alone a
film from less than ten years ago. The Matrix spawned two sequels, as
well as The Animatrix, a collection of animated films, as well as video
games, comics, action figure lines and more. If you haven't seen this
film, don't delay  The Matrix is waiting for you.- Mike Massie

******
6 September 2007
9
The Matrix (1999)Top 5 - 1999 Top 5 Sci-Fi Films Of All TimeThe first and best part of the coolest sci-fi trilogy of all time, is a
revitalising and reinvigorating, genre redefining film.In a film where we are told that the world we live is a hoax, an
elaborate cover-up designed by machines so they can enslave all
humanity. Past all the philosophy and information, this is an all out
action/adventure movie with stunningly choreographed action sequences;
some scenes definitely stand as one of the 'coolest of all time'.This is a Sci-Fi film. A brilliant one in fact. If I was giving the
Matrix a rating, when I took into consideration other Sci-Fi films it
would definitely be a 10.Anyway this is a highly recommended film that is almost guaranteed to
thrill, excite and entertain over and over again."Slick, polished, high-tech entertainment"

******
24 August 2007
10
I've watched it as many in cinema. Watched it few minutes ago, 8 years
later and gotta say: still Best Film ever created.I've got to admit, I was shocked after the film. I knew it was going to
bee good (Special effects on trailer where so amazing), but i didn't
realise that film would be that outstanding.It had everything for a good film: effects (repeating myself already),
storyline, acting (Mr. Fishburne was outstanding so was Mr. Weaving)and
etc.Directors Wachowski Brothers hopefully will release a no 4. the way is
see its far from over. Thats it is. 10 out of 10. Simple as that.

******
14 August 2007
10
There is little to be said about The Matrix that hasn't already been
said, but I stand it up with Fight Club and Network as one of the most
important and rational pieces of cinema to emerge in decades. The many
relevant ideas and wisdoms expressed are still resonating throughout
society and creating debate. Unlike many modern blockbusters, the
effects and battles are astonishing eye candy, but are always backed up
by plot or symbolism, image by image. The viewer can spot many
references to anime and other media texts, creating both a subconscious
landscape for the audience and inviting them to go deeper. The
more-than-competent acting (yes, even Keanu), and stylish techno-green
production design are just the icing on the cake for this incredible
piece of work that demands multiple viewings.A word on the sequels: they cannot compare, but with a little patience
and study into philosophy, they at least make for great brain food.

******
14 July 2007
7
"The Matrix" is the driving force behind a string of half-arsed
sci-fi/fantasy films (including 2 bloated and inferior Matrix sequels)
that have appeared (and sunk without trace) in its wake since 1999.
This film had a similar cultural impact to the original "Star Wars" and
its high rating is well deserved. Often imitated but seldom equaled,
"The Matrix" set so many new standards that it became sci-fi's
yardstick for the new millennium. It has that potent blend of action, adventure, philosophy and sex
appeal that distinguishes a classic blockbuster movie from all the
summer season also-rans. Name me one other big-hitting action movie
from 1999. You're struggling, aren't you?Of course you are. "The Matrix" was one of the first films to use
"Bullet Time" camera effects in its gravity-defying slow-motion stunts.
The bone-crunching fights and action sequences were choreographed by a
Chinese martial arts master. The soundtrack was littered with catchy
tunes. The dialogue was peppered with smart one-liners. The female lead
spent a lot of time dressed in figure-hugging shiny black PVC costumes.
The set design and CGI was awe-inspiring in scale. Did I mention the
figure-hugging shiny black PVC?"The Matrix" is lightning in a bottle. The Wachowski brothers tried to
capture it in 2 subsequent attempts and failed. Fortunately the
formulaic sequels haven't dimmed the appeal of the original film.

******
5 March 2007
9
It was all the right timing for this movie. With all the Y2K hype and
the millennium steadily approaching, this could not have fit in better.
This is a revelation in visual effects in film. People never saw this
movie or its visual effects coming because the millennium diverted it.
Not to say that it was poorly advertised because thousands of people we
know from the votes viewed this movie. This is what the Wachowski
Brothers were waiting for and hats off to the directors out there who
took advantage to the near millennium, to the near future. The
videogames of this series aren't half bad as well, however, they are
limited, even in a world like the Matrix. These are the films that make
it, from directors who put their all into making one tremendous effort
in a single film. They will be rewarded. We saw this with Quentin
Tarantino and his low-budget (but definitely not low-rated) film, Pulp
Fiction. Watch the other two films in the Matrix series to find out if
the Wachowski Brothers capitalized or fell in their own success.

******
10 November 2006
8
I have the DVD and I watch this movie all the time. I must have seen it
about a million times. The action in this movie is just so awesome! I
love all of the fight sequences. My only problem with it is the fact
that it gets very cheesy, and when there is no action, there is just
boring dialog. The dialog just sets up for the story, but they could
have made it a little bit more interesting. The story line is also very
well written. It's one of those movies that makes you think, and the
fact that we ARE in a Matrix kinda creeps you out. No outstanding
acting. I put it on my movie list just for the action in it. One of the
top five action movies of all time.

******
14 October 2006
10
OK, I probably can't add anything more to everything already noted
about this milestone of a movie. So, this is more of a teary-eyed Thank
You-speech long overdue! The genre of this adult kind of sci-fi-action
has three indisputable kings at its top, in my book: Aliens, Terminator
2 ... and The Matrix. Thank heaven and earth for the people making this
kind of movies, just for an audience like me! Without them, the movie
world would be a poorer, drier and drearier place to be. That feeling of overwhelming rush and awe that overpowered me in the
movie theater in Sydney 1999, still hasn't worn off. Seven years later,
I feel safe to say that it saved the industry of inventive movie making
at this level, all on its own, with its epic mix of genres: Sci-fi.
Action. Martial arts. Urban mythology. Immortal characters and quotes.
It's all here, unsurpassed both in mind-bending style and original
content, leaving the biggest of cult followings. As for its sequels... it just didn't need them!10 out of 10 from Ozjeppe

******
23 September 2006
9
At first when you see the movie, you feel if all this is true. An
introspection goes through your mind. That's the beauty of this movie.
It is an amalgamation of all one would want for a movies to be
successful. The script is so damn good written that i think it must be
a truly phenomenal task. Acting by the entire cast is just
unquestionable. Hats off to the Wachoski brothers, because the more you
see the movie the more truth you find in it. This movie is not just
about action or dynamic special effects, it is also a movie of
believing the concept of matrix. For a moment even you think this may
be happening with my life too. The Matrix definitely sets the table
after 2001: Space Odyssey.

******
4 August 2006
8
While I'm aware that there are a lot of people who feel that the first
movie in the Matrix trilogy is the only good ones and that the next two
were terrible, I must completely disagree. In my opinion, the most
important thing about this movie is that it paved the way for the
sequels. That means that this movie severely under-utilizes its own
plot and concept and the same are only exploited as they should in the
sequels. The real potential for insane action and the intriguing
philosophy which actually does make 80% sense, barring the weird
happenings which are not even explained properly, are only made use of
in the sequels and not in this movie. Thus it is certainly unfair to
downplay the sequels. The Matrix as a stand alone movie is quite good,
but really not as good as it could have been and this has been fixed in
the sequels.

******
24 July 2006
10
I remember quite vividly when I first caught a glimpse of this movie a
few years ago. Flipping through the channels on a hotel television, I
came across the film during the final chase scene and, upon first
glance, it made absolutely no sense. How was the guy being chased in
two places at once? What were those creatures attacking that ship?
What's with him stopping the bullets? Incidentally, I ran into this
same spot two nights in a row.When I actually came around to seeing the entire movie (on television
yet again) in sequence several years later, I began to realize how
great it actually was. I must have watched all the replays each time I
clicked on the television. This would later be coupled with my general
love for the trilogy that spawned about a year ago at this time.I've seen some of the comments from people who disliked the movie. They
either "didn't get it" or said it was "overrated." The latter has
gained more prominence since everyone and their mom has spoofed the
once unique "Bullet Time" sequence and the general themes of "The
Matrix". It's kind of sad that the repetition of third parties has
detracted from the masterpiece and brilliance of Bullet Time, which was
a revolutionary piece of art. I still love watching it (along with the
rest of the movie), and I wish I could go back in time to the day the
movie was released just to sit with the audience and hear their
reactions as Neo bent backwards, slowly dodging and weaving out of the
way of the bullets. Beautiful.To further comment on the detractions of the film, I have to say that
you either "got it" and loved the movie or sat there and hated it.
There's no happy medium for this film it seems, though I don't think
the Wachowski Brothers mind. To be honest, there are small flaws within
the movie, but it never detracts from my viewing experience.But even with all the fight scenes and special effects, what's a movie
without actors? Keanu Reeves (Neo/Thomas Anderson) is not someone you would normally
pick to play heavy roles, and many can't get past Keanu's "spaced"
demeanor. Sure, it's definitely a laugh to poke fun at it ("Whoa!"),
but within the context of "The Matrix", he's perfect. Neo, as others
have described him, is the Silent Buddha type: he'll lead more through
his actions than with lengthy speeches. If Neo were completely
confident, brash, and outspoken, it would be hard to root for him.
Thank God Will Smith chose "Wild Wild West", eh? Laurence Fishburne embodies Morpheus, the cool-headed leader with the
greatest of faith in the prophecy of the One. Morpheus is brought to
life by Fishburne and it's hard to imagine anyone else trying to fill
that role. The same goes for Carrie-Ann Moss, who convinced me as
Trinity that she can and most likely WILL kick your ass, whether you
like it or not. Furthermore, she compliments Keanu's laid back style
with her own intense approach. I suppose that's why, within the film,
Trinity is drawn to Neo.To be honest, Hugo Weaving should get more credit for his role as Agent
Smith. Smith helps carry the weight of the second half of the film
along with Neo. Weaving effectively gives the Agent his confident,
silently-smirking-at-you-constantly demeanor that parallels Neo's
character. Much of the appeal of "The Matrix" undoubtedly comes from
Weaving's performance in terms of mass media. If you put on a black
suit with shades, almost everyone knows who you are.The most underrated performance is that of the late Gloria Foster, who
portrays The Oracle. She absolutely nails down the character of the
all-knowing, disarming grandmotherly woman who is not only witty, but
also blunt and to the point. The scene where The Oracle and Neo meet is
a very nice exchange, with each actor carrying their own parts
appropriately.The best scene? Boy, that's a tough one. I could pick almost any scene
in the movie and say why it's good. The best dialogue scenes would have
to be either the interrogation with the Agents and Neo, Morpheus
revealing in the Construct what the Matrix is, the before mentioned
Oracle/Neo scene, or Smith's interrogation of Morpheus. And I'm just
slimming down my list here, folks! The best action scene, I believe, is the subway showdown between Neo
and Smith. Sure, the rooftop scene had the famous "Bullet Time" shot,
and the helicopter ride was intense, but this sequence is one of THE
best choreographed fight scenes I've ever seen. There are nice little
touches, including the Old West-esquire showdown that occurs just prior
to the fight. The Lobby Scene should not be forgotten either as it was
a beautiful piece of cinematography.In the end, "The Matrix" is one of the greatest achievements in modern
film making. It's not the greatest film of all time, but in the scope
of science fiction, action films, and modern movies (within the last
two decades), it ranks among the greats. "The Matrix" sets the bar for
future films of its type.

******
18 April 2006
8
Why somehow? Because casting Keanu Reeves in a metaphor-movie is always
risky business, considering his "enourmous versatility". Here is an
example: Keanu happy :) Keanu angry :)Keanu hurt :)Keanu in pain
:)Keanu having an orgasm :)Keanu trying to be intellectual
............... Apart from that, he seems an OK dude, really. Is this movie philosophical? Well, yes, it's a pretty nice abstract
explanatory image of the absurdity of the world we live in, and it is
consistent with a basic philosophical basic presumption on which an
entire argumentative algorithm - type system is subsequently based on.
The beauty of such a vision is that you can interpret the idea of this
movie in a personal way; some of my fellow commentators have brought up
issues like: the absurdity of work ?!!!! (mino from Romania - gimme 5,
bro). Can't say I don't agree,pal,while you're there in the Matrix,
please help Tyler Durden blow up the rest of the banks too, will
you?:). What I mostly saw here was a nice metaphor regarding the
reaching of a higher understanding of the world. Our bodies are rigid
mechanisms, the only way he can achieve freedom is through our minds.
We could be rich, glamorous or whatever, but we are still flesh,bones
and blood. It's our minds that we have to think about.Where I don't agree with some of my fellow commentators is that this
movie has a religious dimension. Every time something like "The Matrix"
appears on the market, there will be hoards of people joining that big
'ol atheist love parade. The same with E.T.,War of the Lords and the
SF-movement generally and...the newest jewel encrusted in the
existentialist frustration crown: The DaVinci Code. I mean, give me a
break, I'm not a religious person, but use your own brain and generate
your own ideas when it comes to faith and God. If you can't, that's
absolutely OK, but better turn to traditional religions rather than the
Watchowski Brothers.Having said that, the movie is very entertaining and nicely done. What
I disliked a bit was the video-clip type of filming and the very clean
advertisement-type "feel" of the movie. Also the dialog was sometimes
overly preachy, although as I said earlier, the basic idea is great.I
would have taken one point out of the deserved 8 because of Keanu R.,
but since one of man's most expressive features are the eyes, and Keanu
R. is wearing sunglasses for most of the movie, we don't have to look
to often into the eyes of KEN, so it's bearable."You humans are like a virus" Damn right, Mr. Smith.

******
13 March 2006
10
This is a great movie. Every character is FULL in all aspects of the
word; every single one of them. Wachowski Brothers were lucky and
deserve a congratulation for having such a wonderful team and getting
the best out of them. Matrix, even now 6 years after its release is just not a mere action
movie its a phenomenon. The most important lesson of the story is "Believe in yourself".(I think) The most impressive performance is of Neo & the Oracle.I am not very fond of watching an action movie twice but this one...
God, I think I have seen it about 20 times.Antone who has not seen this movie and is fond of action movies he is
missing something.

******
5 January 2006
9
This movie is a great success because of its ability to decipher the
fine points of Hinduism and Buddhism through a very contemporary issue.
There is no doubt that the film is a trend-setter in more ways than
one, but what appealed to me about this film is the concept and great
dialogues.Although it can be absolutely agreed that the film consists of awesome
action scenes that send the viewers into a frenzy, there is a necessity
not to overlook the great concept that the film encompasses.There is one more speciality -- each time you see this film, you learn
something new about it. Methinks, to completely comprehend the concept
a viewer has to see it at least four or five times.Great movie, without a doubt. I also think that the actors were
immaterial, in the sense that it didn't matter which actor got what
role. Whoever got the respective roles struck the jackpot, as the USP
of the film was the concept that it carried and tried to put across to
the viewers.

******
31 December 2005
10
Although the sequels ("The Matrix Reloaded" and "The Matrix
Revolutions") failed to bring about the same feeling you get from this
movie, it is definitely one of the most mind-bending pictures you will
ever see. The incredible special effects and wonderful acting by Keanu
Reeves are only surpassed by the incredible storyline. Even the idea
that the world we are living in isn't real is enough to make your head
spin, but the entire race being controlled by machines? It's completely
mind-blowing. The action is some of the best choreography you'll ever
see, and put together with two great directors and a really good cast,
this sci-fi action thriller is one you'll want to watch again and
again. In closing: See this movie!

******
29 November 2005
10
Thomas Anderson; or Neo, is a computer hacker. Currently he is looking
for a man called Morpheus. One night he is contacted by a woman called
trinity, telling him everything he knew about his existence is about to
change. Soon the man Neo was looking for finds him. He brings upon Neo
a startling revelation about the existence of all humans. The
artificial intelligence created by man have enslaved the human race;
using us as a form of power source. To keep us alive they have built a
computer generated reality call the matrix. There are rebels of the
matrix, people who try to release as many people they can, to tell them
the truth that they have been living in a dream world. Inside the
matrix are deadly, super fast sentinels call agents, that stop at
nothing to stop the rebels and their cause.The Matrix is a mind blowing, sci-fi action extravaganza that has
become an instant classic. The Wachowski brothers have created a
wonderfully detailed world that does have much to say about modern life
and the dependence of technology. They have made a future that in a
sense can be very close to us and holds a startling truth that in
essence could happen. They have put a lot of philosophy into the story,
giving it a lot of depth and detail so you can pick new information
over many watches.The special effect are nothing short of amazing. They haven't lost any
of their impact over the years. The fight scenes are the best fights in
any movie to date. They're fast, high energy and have been influenced
by many martial art films, but they do have been given that western
feel; having that rigid style than being really gracefully. The slow
motion and camera work they made just exploded the rules of fight
sequences and created a revelation in cinema. Not long after nearly
every action film was copying The Matrix, but they never came close to
The Matrix. The lobby shoot out is just a visually amazing sight, with
all the debris flying everywhere, and the fight between Neo and Agent
Smith is so intense and brutal. The green wash of the matrix adds a
sense of alienation; being a non-reality. The blue and white colours of
the real world add a haunted ghost feel of the dead earth.Keanu Reeves, Carrie-Anne Moss and Laurence Fishburne all give great
performances. All exerting strength in their character yet giving them
emotional depth too, making them multi-dimensional, instead of flat 2-D
characters that you can't link yourself to. Hugo Weaving gave a
brilliant performance as the menacing Agent Smith. He suited the role
perfectly, not over doing the tough persona. Joe Pantoliano also gave a
great performance as Cypher.The Matrix has raised the standard of action films so high that it will
be a long time before any other film can jump over it. A classic film
that must been seen.

******
22 November 2005
10
The Matrix has a perfect blend of everything that makes a movie good.
Great cast, great story, a lot of heart and soul on the project by all
who work on it, and the need to watch it again and again. I seen
thousands of movies in my life and most movies that I see make me feel
empty like I have seen it all. The Matrix has this great allure to make
you want to watch it again and again. If you love a great action movie
that makes you think look no further. This movie has the cutting edge
in movie looks. Bullet time gives the film look like no other. The
ideas here are mind bending. I can give you a whole new look on life
itself. The religious over tones in the movie are great but not in your
face. The Matrix has a very delicate and almost flawless storyline. I
love the fact that nothing is spelled out in the movie it helps make
this quite the wild ride. By the end of it all the The Matrix will have
you!

******
21 November 2005
9
Whoa! If you ask me, THE MATRIX is an adrenaline pumping sci-fi ride
that'll have you on the edge of your seat from start to finish. The
first time I ever saw this movie was on WTTG one night a few years ago.
Of course, it was edited for content and to run in the time allotted.
In other words, I have never seen it unedited and uncut. I couldn't
tell hat was the real world and what was the cyber world. Also, when
Neo (Keanu Reeves) was being pursued, I was scared. This was because I
didn't want him to get hurt. Also, the martial arts and special effects
were very well done. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this
adrenaline pumping sci-fi ride that'll have you on the edge of your
seat from start to finish to any Keanu Reeves or Laurence Fishburne fan
who hasn't seen it. When you see this movie, hold on tight and prepare
to be taken on a wild ride.

******
14 September 2005
10
The Matrix is probably the most important film made in the last 20
years. There are several reasons for this, the biggest of which has
nothing to do with metaphysics and "what is real?"; a question which is
quite literally asked throughout most of this film.The Matrix is a story about Neo, a computer hacker living the double
life of Mr. Anderson, a person with a "job at a respectable software
company" and "helps his landlady take out her garbage". Yet as No, the
protagonist is looking for something just a tad out of reach and in so
doing falls into the Alice in Wonderland world of the Matrix.Neo is portrayed as sort of a savior, a single being whose promise is
to win a war against a vastly superior force of super-smart and super
powerful machines. And on his way to that level, Neo discovers that the
world is nothing like he thought.The Matrix is a movie brilliant on many levels, the most base of which
is special effects. Some people are willing to dismiss this as nothing
more then a good story, a good action film. But hold on now, I say this
movie is deep. This movie has a level of subtlety that not many have
caught on to.Here's a question worth asking: why is the dream world of the Matrix
set in the 20th century? What purpose did the brothers who made this
film have in using this time period ad the period represented in the
Matrix? In a very conscious effort on the parts of this movie's
creators, the Matrix is, in a sense, a dream world which reflects our
current world. This then is the metaphor that the brothers have tried
to set up.We are living a dream. Every aspect of our lives is designed to pull
wool over our eyes. We understand Neo, because Neo's initial plight is
relateable. In a way, this time period was chosen because it was the
hight of capitalism. In my opinion, the Matrix is a movie which creates
a complex metaphor where humans literally become cogs in a great
machine. The literalness of being into a battery must be translated
into real life. Like those living in the matrix, we in real life, are
serving a system which ruthlessly and unapologetically exploits us.Quite literally, the Matrix is the capitalist machine, dehumanizing and
exploiting individual humans. That at least is the message I get from
the Matrix: a harsh criticism of the capitalist machine that makes up
our "real life"

******
18 August 2005
8
A computer hacker by the alias 'Neo' is contacted by a small group of
people who tell him a disturbing truth:The world he thinks he lives in
is nothing more than a computer program controlled by robots.Neo is
thought to be the One,he is told that he will be the one to overthrow
the slave masters and free humanity.But,doubts plague his mind...The Matrix has unfairly been stapled as a "Lets throw in some Gothic
fashion,CGI,and cool metal tunes and we'll have an audience" type of
film.And all though the film does have some fantastic and dark costume
designs,jaw dropping CGI,and an absolutely amazing musical
soundtrack(The best and most noteworthy being 'Clubbed to Death',a
cross between beautiful piano and rhyamatic techno),The Matrix features
one of the most important aspects of a good film:an excellent story.
The idea that everything around us,everything we love and loath,is a
computer program,is a chilling,yet brilliant thought.The action behind
the story is also incredible,exquisitely combing costumes,computer
effects,camera angels,originality,music and choreography to deliver
some very memorable action sequences(I.e,the opening scene).The acting
from most is great:All I'm gonna say about Keanu Reeves often debated
performance is this:The man looks awesome,and I cant see anyone else
nailing the role as effectively as he did. Carrie-Anne Moss,Laurence
Fishburne ,and Hugo Weaving give memorable performances.Andy and Larry
Wachowski do an amazing job at directing.The film is visually
fantastic,featuring some incredible shots and angles,and the
cinematography by Bill Pope is excellent to,creating a very dark and
neo noir atmosphere.The only major problem is that by todays standard,some of the "bullet
time" sequences seem a little self parodying.Highly recommend,this is not just a special effects film! 8/10

******
5 August 2005
10
I had the great experience of seeing the Matrix in the theater when it
first came out, and to tell you the truth, I was blown away by it.
Never before had I seen a movie so thought-provoking and interesting.
Aside from all the amazing action and visuals, this movie challenged
people to think that there might be something else about our existence
that we don't know about. Although I was pretty confused about some
things the first time I saw it, I can now say after seeing it numerous
times, that this is one Sci-Fi film you don't want to miss.The Matrix definitely raised the bar for all Science-Fiction films as
we know it. Go see it.

******
16 June 2005
7
I give this a seven because so many people (especially fan boys and
star wars fanatics or the ordinary children) tend to grow up and see
this as their new religion, as I happened to see up close and way too
personal with people all around me.This is not a great movie!!!!Depth: If you think the matrix is the fulcrum of philosophy, I think
you should never be allowed to read any other book than Bob the Builder
builds a house. If any of you who have seen the Matrix, have also seen
the totally superior Dark city or Ghost in the shell and understood the
story, you will hopefully know what I mean. Those films posses depth,
as every scene has a story to tell, a point to clear out. I leave the
exploring of those 2 films (you have to watch them more than once) to
you all. In the matrix this is not the case. The movie is base. It's
simple storytelling ground is a bad soil for the pretense it gives by
shrouding itself in mystery and greater questions of society/humanity.
It's not a bad movie! Hell no, I enjoy it a lot, but it remains just an
action flick with a nicer story than most action films, say Soldier,
hehe. This is not a brilliantly designed film though. It is a great
action film and it's IMDb score can only be justified in that sense,
but never in a way in which people say that it is an intelligent movie.
A film that has 50% of it's screen time having people fighting kung fu
and shooting bullets has a really hard time to fill the other half with
challenging matter, if you understand what I mean.so, lets talk film:Originality: Most of it is stolen, so less points for that originality
thing anyway, but, better stolen right then created poorly. The plot:
basic, but interesting with a nice open end, which is not put to good
use as we all would find out later with the horribly flat and
mind-degrading sequels The acting: Keanu defines cardboard pinnochio's
on strings, no surprises there, Moss is not put to use, Fishburne is
cool... his simple role requires him to have only 2 expressions (not
his fault), Weaving is good for he is the only character with
interesting lines and a little depth and puts that to good use. The
graphics: Very good, great use of special effects some sets literally
stolen from dark city. Check green intro in Ghost in the shell for more
info on how to steal ideas as well. (No, the green alphabet is not an
homage, trust me) The camera work: Apart from the new world shaking
bullet time technique, actually quite basic. Some camera angles
literally stolen from dark city. Nice use of the then still new digital
camera filters.Well, that's all actually. It's more just a call to the mostly teen
audience (and the few elder retards) to see other (better) movies as
well. If you just like action films I suggest you stick with those, no
offence, I like action movies too, but don't confuse the films with
depth with action movies with pretences.

******
29 May 2005
8
Only after a recent viewing of The Matrix did I realise how much of an
impact this film has had on the film-making industry. Think about it.
Fight scenes, action sequences, 'bullet time' have all been used
(ripped off)in other movies. The Matrix has not lost it's impact since
its release in 1999. I remember back when I first saw the film the
question everyone wanted answered was 'What is the Matrix?'. Nobody was
sure what to expect, and as a result the movie was an absolutely mind
blowing experience. When people asked me how the film was, I simply
said they HAD TO watch it themselves to form their own opinion. Even
though everyone knows what the Matrix is now, it's still one of the
greatest sci fi action films ever.

******
16 May 2005
10
I thought that this was an excellent movie, being only 10 when it came
out, i didn't understand many things about it, but now looking back,
I'm 15 and this is a great movie, but i want to say that the sequels
were not needed, they were horrible, way over the top, and to stylized.
I would recommend seeing this one.I think that without Keanu Reeves being Neo, this movie wouldn't have
been as good. He really brought the feel of the character to the movie.The 'Bullet Time' was a ground breaking new special effect, after this
movie i couldn't believe how many other movies decided to rip it off.One of my favorite movies, and will probably be for a long time.

******
1 May 2005
10
Starring: Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo
Weaving "What is the Matrix?" The fundamental question that had
moviegoers and critics across the world bedazzled in the year of 1999.
Science fiction and action movies would never be the same after this
blockbuster stormed the scene with its blazingly original visuals and
bizarre yet detailed concepts.Thomas Anderson, a.k.a. Neo (Reeves) is a software programmer who is
living two lives. In one he is Thomas Anderson, a regular Joe who goes
to work, goes to church, and "helps his landlady take out her garbage."
In the other life, he is Neo, a computer hacker who is guilty of
essentially every computer crime there is a law for. One night he's
asleep at his computer, when his computer starts talking to him. Not
literally, but flashing text across the screen. He follows the
instructions his computer is giving him and goes to a club where he
meets Trinity (Moss), another hacker, or at least that's what he
thinks.When he's at work the next day, a package from FedEx comes to him
containing a cell phone. As soon as he gets the phone in his hand, it
starts ringing, and Morpheus (Fishburne) is on the other end of the
line with him, telling him that the FBI are here to get him. Neo stands
up, and sure enough, the fibbies are over at the elevator, ready to
come and arrest him. Morpheus gives Neo instructions on how to escape
the feds and get to safety, but Neo can't muster the courage to go out
on a ledge (literally) and take a scaffold to the roof, so he gets
taken in by the feds.After an interesting encounter with the FBI, Neo is contacted again by
Morpheus, who tells him where he should go if he wants to meet. They
meet, and Neo asks what the matrix is. In the words of Morpheus,
"Unfortunately no one can be told what the matrix is. You have to see
it for yourself." Neo has two options. Take the blue pill, and he
continues his life how it has been going. Take the red pill, and enter
a whole new world. Of course, he opts for the red pill, and he is
released from the matrix and wakes up in the real world.So what is the matrix then? In a nutshell, it's a computer driven
simulation that keeps human minds busy so that machines can harvest our
bodies for power. Morpheus freed Neo from the matrix because he
believed that Neo was essentially the savior of mankind, foretold by
the prophecies.I think that's enough of a summary of the gist of the movie. The rest
of it you just have to see for yourself. It's truly an amazing action
movie with some of the coolest and craziest visuals you could possibly
imagine. It's just one of those things that you have to see for
yourself to actually believe.Bottom Line: 4 out of 4 (own this movie)

******
3 March 2005
10
Perhaps the first postmodern movie to be enthusiastically embraced by
the public, "The Matrix" has not only sold lots of DVD players, but
also passed into our cultural mythology. Which all goes to show the
power of a great story well told. On a first viewing, it seemed to me
that the brothers Wachowski were trying for a Zen myth, but when they
got to the crunch, they bailed and went with the tried and true Christ
figure archetype. Perhaps it really is still the greatest story ever
told.I'm sure that there are nitpickers out there who have totted down the
film's supposed flaws and inconsistencies (as my wife says, "another
great adventure story ruined by kissing"), but even after several years
and many, many viewings, I find the combination of the writing, the
brilliant camera shots and the art direction to be really inspiring.
And it's nice to see a film in which the special effects actually serve
the story.

******
3 March 2005
10
This movie is so good. I don't know where to start but let's see when I
first saw it I didn't know much about it. I knew it was futuristic and
had cool special effects. I didn't know the effects were to that extent
and I also didn't know who was starring in the film. So I went into it
thinking I'm gonna watch and see. And what did I see something that I
haven't stopped watching to this day. I ended up knowing some of the
cast Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishbourne and Joe P. Carrie-Anne Moss was
a nice surprise and the script is addictive. The kung-fu is awesome and
the shootouts are everything video games are made of. All in all this
might be my favorite movie to date.

******
20 February 2005
7
I wasn't quite sure what to expect from this movie. I know I was 6
years late in seeing it but I just didn't understand the hype. Now I
know. Gloria Foster was amazing! She is not seen much anymore in the
movies. Wish they showed more of her. Of course, Mr. Fishburne was
awesome too! Keanu was his usual good-looking self, not a great actor
but not bad either. At least he's good eye-candy! Great dramatic action
movie! I have to say Keanu has come a long way from Bill & Ted's
Excellent Adventure. Laurence is great in anything he does. Fantastic
visual effects! All in all a gripping movie! One definitely needs to
have a great sound system to fully enjoy this experience. Looking
forward to seeing the other two.

******
18 February 2005
9
If a movie's success was judged by the amount of times it is imitated
then the Matrix must be one of the greatest modern cinematic pieces.
Never has a film set new bench marks in this type of genre since
Disney's Tron in the late 70's. However I do believe that this original
masterpiece by the Wachowski brothers has created a two tier audience,
those that love it and those that loathe it! I'm glad I'm part of the
former group and have to say The Matrix is one my most heavily worn
DVD's in my collection. The origirnality of the special effects really
sell this film well, in fact the self same effects have been parodied a
heck of a lot since from Shrek to Team America which further reinforces
it's impact in cinematic history. The cast is a good choice even if
many have little regard for Keanu Reeve's acting ability it works well
here and I could not imagine anyone else better suited for the role of
Morpheus than Lawrence Fishbourne. Equally interesting is the way Hugo
Weaving plays the sinister Mr Smith. To look at the actual script you
would not regard the part as malevolent but Mr Weaving turns it into
the guy you really love to hate! This has similar shades to Ricardo
Montalban's Khan in Star Trek 2 where some of the line looks mundane of
even laughable but are made into something completely unexpected by the
actor portraying the character. And finally The Matrix has one of the
few scenes in a movie that I'd place in the top ten movie scenes of all
time. This was when Neo recovers after being "killed" and realises he
is 'the one'.Final word - If you never seen the film then at least go out and rent
it to decide if you love or loathe it. If you find you like it you will
probably be wondering why it has taken up until now to see it!

******
13 February 2005
8
A mind blowing movie experience for 2/3 of the film, then it breaks
down into a shoot 'em up action film, but by then, The Matrix had
already won me over. A different look at reality in the age of
computers, the Wachowski brothers bring about a world where no one
knows for sure what is real, what is fantasy, and who can be trusted.
Sometime in the future, humans made machines to do most of their work,
and at some point, the machines took over the world, using humans as
power for their work. What kind of work does a machine need to do, I'm
not really sure, and something that should have been examined further.
To keep humans in the dark, a computer program was produced to keep the
human mind thinking they were alive. What is real and what isn't is
difficult to define at times in the Matrix and is the source of the
most intellectual genius of the movie. The other achievement of the
movie is the special effects. Any movie that can make Keanu Reeves look
good has to have something special with it. Anyone who has seen any
movie since 1999 knows the 360 degree camera pan around an actor,
perfected by The Matrix. Reeves plays Neo, a computer programmer at
some nameless company who has an underground cult following for his
skill. This leads him to Morpheous (Lawrence Fishburn), a man looking
for prophet, and he thinks he found it in Neo. Carrie-Anne Moss plays
Trinity, a nod in the direction of Christianity, as she is a follower
of the prophecy of Neo who happens to do her best work in catwoman-type
leather. A refreshing change of pace in the beginning of the movie, as
most of the physical challenges involved the martial arts, not running
around with things that go "boom," but we knew that could not last
forever, and the final part of the movie has guns, lots of guns. Hugo
Weaving plays the unemotional, almost too perfect "Agent" who chases
Neo down on several occasions during the film, and is the movie's most
interesting character. We'll have to wait until the following movies in
the Matrix Trilogy to get more in depth when it comes to Agent Smith,
and that's too bad. While we are blowing away our minds, I wish The
Matrix would have gone all of the way, and make it so we don't trust
ANYTHING anymore. Instead, an interesting premise is established, and
only most of it is followed through.

******
11 February 2005
10
with many unusual things and many persons who have no relations (seems
only) ,the movie starts to make you can't leave any tiny detail to
discard, neo with his two identities as programs writer and as
underground hacker which you discover that the truth is something else
... all humans no longer born they grown !attention to details made it very good when you found the truth after
about the middle of the film.great story as the evolution of A.I. (artifitial intelligence) and
computers , also the hackers and code cow boys.nice martial arts fighting beside you must (free your mind !).

******
6 December 2004
8
POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!Many people on this site have this as either their favourite film, or
claim that it is the best movie ever made, while others completely
loath it. The simple answer is that it is a superior action movie
combining great effects with a plot which left the opportunity for so
much more. Easily one of the most influential movies of recent times,
at least when dealing with effects, but it takes most of its ideas from
past films such as The Terminator films. What matters is not the basic
philosophy speeches, destined to be repeated by fans, but that it is an
enjoyable movie in many ways, looks awesome, and has lots of memorable
moments and set pieces. Perhaps if the sequels had been better, this
could rightfully be seen as one of the best movies ever. Either way, it
is still one of my favourites.The film tells of Thomas Anderson, a man with two lives- his day job,
and his life as a hacker known as Neo. He is caught by a group of
agents who tell him he can live his normal life, or die. As time passes
he meets Morpheus who explains that the world Neo has been living in is
a false world created by machines to keep humans in order. The real
world has all but been destroyed in a human and machine war. Morpheus
believes that Neo is the chosen one, the one who will free mankind from
slavery. At first it seems that this is not true, but as the film
progresses, we see that Neo is not like the other humans- he can do
things they cannot do.The Matrix is one of the most clever action films ever, the
philosophising can become extremely annoying till the point that you
realize a world of philosophers would not be very difficult to conquer.
However, it all sounds cool, and there is truth in it, but then again,
what is truth? Sigh. The effects are genuinely revolutionary, the
performances are all good, especially from Weaving as Agent Smith whose
monologue on the pointlessness of the human race is perfectly
understandable, but at the same time pinpoints the exact reason for our
existence. But that's not for me to say. The film has a good
soundtrack, excellent fight scenes, and there is at least one memorable
or iconic image every ten minutes. Not the greatest movie ever, but
easily one of the best of its kind, and has its rightful place in
cinematic history.8 out of 10

******
23 November 2004
10
The best science fiction films always seem to have solid groundings inphilosophy. Star Trek is the classic example, and Star Wars also
ventures into some philosophical grounds. The Matrix follows that
tradition, and yet it still manages to be fresh.Thomas Anderson is your average decent person who goes to work, pays
histaxes and helps his landlady take out the garbage. Yet he dreams. He
dreams sometimes so vividly that the dreams become almost real. He is
confronted by mysterious hackers named Morpheus and Trinity who tell
him that what seemsreal to him is in fact little more than an illusion - and they free him
into a post- apocalyptic world in which machines are in complete
control, harvestinghumans as power sources while keeping them sedate with the illusion of
theMatrix. And he finds himself, along with the few free humans there are,
charged with the task of freeing those still trapped inside the
illusion.Not a new idea, to be sure. The notion that all we see and feel is an
illusion dates back to Shakyamuni Buddha. But the film is nevertheless
engrossing and edgy, even when produced on such a limited budget. It
incorporates specialeffects that give it almost an anime-like feel (slow-motion and
changingperspective) without making it seem tacky, and gives rise to what is
sure tobecome one of the most memorable action scenes in the history of
sciencefiction films. The acting by Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne and
CarrieAnne Moss is spectacular in some areas though overwrought in others
(thefilm's only drawback). Overall, this movie gets a 9/10.

******
24 October 2004
10
I love this film!i love the way that Andy and Larry put their visions into making this
film, which to me is similar to an animé. The SFX was REVOLUTIONARY!! it used a technique called the
"BULLET-TIME" which gives us a whole new way of looking at space and
depth and time, this summed up the late 90's, the same way slow motion
summed up the late 60's. Asides the visual effects, the soundtrack and
sound effects was well done.Using music from popular heavy metal bands really is perfect for the
genre of the film and the use of Juno Reactor's electronica and techno
music gives a strong relation with the plot. Sound effects was done
well as well. By just seeing the Nebuchadnezzar, we immediately know
what sounds it makes- the electric like, rough pulses of sound s it
makes. Over all, 10/10!!!

******
22 October 2004
10
If someone says they don't like this movie they have no imagination!
It's like the best movie to make you think, and to bring to real life,
its much better to live for a purpose... and to have a purpose to live!
People that don't like it, probably think they have some kind of reason
for being here, I don't.So I believe! And as I Want to escape from the prison that affects us
all, our society, it helps me see a better way of how! just be
different, because its OK! I am different and very happy thanks to this
movie! it makes me dream of a better way to live, and I just try to do
it the best way I can! Thank you Watchowskis, for inventing Neo and the
nebucadnezzer... The Matrix has me...

******
30 September 2004
9

This is the coolest scifi movie I've ever seen. The story was so
complicated but the idea was very creative. No other story like this
story. It had a strong script and strong actions. The visual effect was
so great. Many new looking explosions. Such as that helicopter crash.
It was very awesome. And of course the bullets time, the slow motion.
It was a fresh looking for an action movie. Cool choreography which Neo
did. I had to watch 2 times before I understand what movie is about.
What is the matrix is still a mystery. But, I don't care. The movie was
so great. Just saw the visual effect and how it went, made me satisfy.
I think this movie was the best from the whole trilogy. The movie was
very new and didn't to persist. Very futuristic.


******
15 April 2004
10

It may be! I love many sci-fi movies, especially the original Star Wars
films, but The Matrix may just be the best single sci-fi movie I've ever
seen. No other movie I've seen combines the sense of wonder, awe, and pure
action satisfaction as The Matrix does. And the movie just gets better
every
time you see it! Not many movies can boast that.The bar has been raised to a new level in sci-fi. I don't know what else
can
compete with this movie, and frankly, I'm disappointed in every other
sci-fi
movie I have seen since (whether old or new).To me, it IS the best sci-fi movie ever, and is one of my top five movies
of
all time. I understand that there are some people that haven't seen this
yet. What are they waiting for?!? :)10 out of 10 stars.

******
14 March 2004
10

This is possibly the greatest sci-fi movie of our generation. I am not one
to argue that Metropolis(Fritz Lang) is probably the greatest sci-fi film
ever, but this is really a great one. It is worth seeing, over and over
and
over again. I never really liked Keanu Reeves but after this I bought
every
movie he was in. This was definetly is greatest role. I do admit that the
second and third Matrix movies were rather dissapointing, but don't let
that
stop you from seeing the first. I know too many people that will never see
the first Matrix because, they heard the the second and third were
terrible.
Agent Smith(Hugo Weaving) is one of the greatest villans ever. I think
that
he is an amazing actor even in his smaller roles in Lord of the Rings.


******
24 February 2004
10

It isn't very often that a good science fiction movie is conceived. There
are those, eh it was okay, or those not bad types, but this definitely ranks
among the greatest.First off comes the very concept of it. Warning: Spoilers.Neo is a man living in a world he doesn't believe in. He is soon awakened by
Morpheus and the eventual love interest Trinity. This is the basis for the
story, but it goes deeper than that. You have Agent Smith, a program within
the Matrix, which by the way took me two viewings to figure out, that is out
to restore order to the programming. Tidbit number one, the story itself. Phenomenal is one of the best words to
describe it. You have a classic idea of a society of the future trapped and
blinded by that trap, just living a normal life. But it toys with the
concept that not all of us would accept the world we are given, much like
the Truman Show. There is only one other film I would compare this to, and
would put above, and that is Dark City. Moving on, The Matrix houses an
entity of disbelief and human emotion.Each character has their own history that we somehow learn all about. First
and foremost is Neo, played very well by Keanu Reeves. I must say that I
have always liked the guy and his films; Chain Reaction, Speed, etc. Now, he
flawlessly plays a character on edge and constantly learning how to defeat
certain evil. Bringing us to the nemesis of Neo, Agent Smith. I had never
seen Hugo Weaving's work prior to this, but absolutely loved his
performance. Playing an entity who wants a level of freedom that humans have
and take for granted. Next comes Morpheus, played by a great film actor Laurence Fishburne. Whose
work in Event Horizon gave me chills and thrills. He plays sort of the
father figure in this sci-fi. Teaching Neo what he must know to help bring
the human race out of near extinction. Last, but certainly not least comes
Trinity, the love interest and major butt kicker. Carrie Anne-Moss is
another actress I had not heard before this film, and I must say that I
search for her name when thinking of movies to see. It's what brought me to
Memento and Red Planet. But I was amazed that she could portray both an
action hero and a serious individual, not! But this seems to be the trend in
a lot of Hollywood films. The woman hero is either strong with no emotions,
or too emotional with no strengths. Not so anymore, but I think Carrie
helped to break the barrier.Definitely a must see for not only all science fiction fans, but for a whole
generation, for this represents a 'could happen' scenario. One way or
another, I found myself leaving the theater, and still watching the credits,
thinking about what it all means...10 out of 10

******
31 December 2003
10

Once in a while, a film rolls into theatre with everything you (might)
want.
Style, Story, Special Effects, Sincerity, and moments you'll always
remember. Obviously, The Matrix to most (including me), is one such
film.Now let's forget about the flops that were Reloaded and Revolutions. It
was
about 5 years since the first release.To myself, The Matrix was a movie that added new things which I wanted to
see in a movie. Quite impressive for two brothers who were virtually
unknown
at that time.Usually, any movie may contain one or two good things. The Matrix
contained
everything. Groundbreaking CGI and special effects basically brought its
style into the new movie standards. The story and meanings have been
parodied, read, and even used as course material.The Matrix is one movie in which people can watch again and again, and
this
is something I still watch today.Hopefully, 10 years down the road, someone will remake Reloaded and
Revolutions to the standard that The Matrix set for its time. Until then,
there is no Reloaded or Revolutions (in my mind).

******
25 November 2003
10

The Matrix was a film i did not get to see until much after its theatrical
release, after hearing excellent things about i checked it out and liked
it
a great deal.The Matrix has a lot of little homages to many other sci-fi films, but
still
the plot remains interesting and somewhat unique, the film is also very
interesting and entertaining with incredible visual effects. The film is
only watered down by some bad performances, specially from Reeve's part
and
some bad dialouge, but no film is perfect and this film isnt ruined by
these
flaws.Highly recommended.
9/10

******
23 November 2003
10

I went into this movie not having any idea what it was about, all I knew
about the movie is that I saw some commercials for it and the special
effects looked interesting.  I saw the movie the night it came out and was
completely blown away.  Going to this movie not knowing the plot was the
best movie going experience I've ever had.  The Matrix is revolutionary, The
Matrix Reloaded had amazing action but lacked a bit in the plot department,
The Matrix Revolutions was a little disappointing but still a good movie
nonetheless.  The original is the best, and that's the bottom
line.

******
21 November 2003
9

When the Matrix was first released in 1999 I thought "Oh, another sci-fi
spin off!" and generally rejected it as not my sort of film. Boy, how wrong
was I?! I first borrowed it from someone and when I watched it I thought "Oh
my god I've missed so much!". I was totally blown away by
it!From Trinity's slow-mo kick to Neo's bullet dodging I was exhilarated not
because of the film's plot (even though the plot is very good) but because I
realised where all the slo-mo and bullet time (especially from Max Payne)
came from. The most interesting character (and I'm sure most people will
agree with me) is Agent Smith; he is so very suave and cool. Don't you just
love that black suit and tie! The gunplay and special effects are also breathtakingly realistic, even the
bullets have tremendous detail as they disturb the air. Overall, the Matrix
is a great movie and remains one of my best. Also check out my comments on
the other two films.

******
18 November 2003
10

The first of it's kind. Possibly the best of its kind at the moment.
Everybody who has seen this film should like it. Those who don't must have
somethingwrong with them.The dialogue is great. The acting is great. The actions is great. The
special effects are great etc etc.This is with a doubt one of the BEST FILMS EVER MADE!!!!


******
18 November 2003
9

After having seen the 3 movies, I can say :
Matrix1 was really great, but they should have expanded the story on 2
episodes (and throw away episode 3, which was real crap).
Morpheus explains much too quickly what the matrix is. They should have
been
more mysterious about it.Matrix2 quite good after having seen it a second time (first time I did
not
like it much). The superman trick and the clones part was real crap,
should
have been avoidedMatrix3 : nothing interesting in it. Just one more action movie. No added
acenario. real crap.

******
14 October 2003
10

"The Matrix" is the definition of science fiction stories.  It takes place
in a future where the main characters are up against impossible odds in a
fantastic environment.  The main character is a reluctant hero that despite
his inability to believe in himself still manages to pull of the impossible
and save the day and the viewer really feels for him.  However, unlike
normal sci-fi movies, there is also another world set in present day
reality... Or is it reality?That is the question "The Matrix" asks.  With this window of opportunity
open, the sky is the limit... Literally.  The movie contains Oscar winning
special effects and these amazing visuals do not subtract from the story and
plot which is a masterpiece of sci-fi perfection.  Borrowing heavily from
religious faith, and faith in general, the viewer is pulled into the Matrix
by the story telling.  Needless to say, the movie never gets
boring.Most people have obviously heard or seen the most famous scenes in the
movie. (The rooftop bullet dodge or lobby scene to name a few.) But the
entire movie is really one huge special effect.  So many of the scenarios or
computer generated and almost none of the movie was shot on spot, but rather
in a building with the actors surrounded by green screens.  This has also
spawned the Bullet-Time(tm) idea that was design specifically for this
movie. (And yes, it was.  Prior to this movie Bullet-Time(tm) did no exists,
as it is known today.) And the DVD explains the concept really
well.This is more than just a movie; it is a science fiction movie by definition.
 It is a near flawless piece of cinema that will be remembered for both it's
entertainment value and it's originality.  Kudos to you Wachowski brother,
you have done us all a favor."The Matrix": 10
"The Matrix: Reloaded": [Pending]
"The Matrix: Revolutions": [Pending]

******
1 October 2003
8

I won't describe this movie or tell you what it's about cos that's what
imdb
is for.It's thought provoking, and complicated but suprisingly easily
understandable.I was suprised i liked it, seeing as I hate Sci-fi movies,
but this one is diffrent.Complicated without being annoying.
The acting in this movie is great as it really suits the feel of the
movie.Some may accuse Keanu Reeves of being a wooden actor, but they are
wrong because the way he acted in this film made it even better, and he
played the role as it should have been done.Laurence(SP)Fishbourne does
well
too, showing prowess as the leader and Neo's sort-of mentor.Carrie-Anne
Moss
is the best as Trinity.Finally a female heroine who's effective, cool, and
deadly without coming over all Xena-ish or worse, Charlie's Angels
like.Hugo-Weaving is just right for the bad guy, and he's so evil you
start
to like him.The Special effects are like millions  noticed in
1999-amazing.Today, they are still not outclassed simply because in the
film
it's not horribly overused-it's in a big mixture of all the successful
ingredients.To sum it up, The Matrix is a one-of-a kind film which many
have
since tried to copy, but never get as good.
Just watch it unprepared for what you're about to see and you won't be
disappointed.

******
17 September 2003
10

What is the Matrix? Unfortunately you cannot be told--you have tosee it for yourself. I LOVED this movie. 
What blew me away about 'The Matrix' and made it my favouritemovie of all time, was the discovery of what *the matrix* is. Thescreenwriters successfully accomplished the task of making theplot be original and deep. The characters were too cool (not tomention the wardrobe!)--the cast did a beautiful job. And last butnot least (and what attracted me to go watch the movie in the firstplace) the directing and visual effects that made this movie uniquefrom all others, and that sparked off a trend for how future sciencefiction and/or action movies are shot for a long time to come--that'Bullet Time' concept--it was excellent to watch. I rate this movie10.5/10

******
28 August 2003
9

This site categorizes Action movies rather strange. Sure, some classics like
Kurosawa´s the Seven Samurai have action in them, but they are not actually
action movies since officially the whole genre began to evolve from the
Clint Eastwood movies of the 70´s and George Lucas´s Star Wars and Indiana
Jones trilogy. 
After this, we´ve seen quite a lot of action movies as some of the world´s
most successful movies are also. Most of them include a muscled, dumb man
like Sylvester Stallone, Jean-Claude van Damme or Chuck Norris killing a lot
of terrorists. Some of them, however are a lot more than just murdering
terrorists. Some Action movies have a heart, they contain also a lot other
beside carnage. Some of these movies are  James Cameron´s Aliens and
Terminator, Brian Singer´s X-men movies or, of course, the Matrix, which is
one of the best action movies of all time.Ok, so the movie´s plot has some similarities to the Terminator or Blade
Runner of something, but they do not have such an imaginative picture of the
future or the artificial reality it contains. I hate say it, but the only
word I can explain this movies greatness, is cool.
It looks cool, it feels cool, all the Action is so cool, that loads of
action movies have tried to copy its coolness after this, but in my opinion,
they have not succeeded very well. Yes, this does get better by every watching, as the first time goes
marveling at the wonders of the artificial world, evil kung-fu agents, the
resistance and even computer effects, which look after four years almost as
good as then. For the next couple of times, as you sink "deeper into the
rabbit hole" you start to think about the philosophical questions this movie
gives. And yes, still enjoy the action. It almost deserves a ten, but the
movie has a few annoying plot holes and I´m not a big fan of Carrie-Ann
Moss, not even in her Catwoman outfit.
So, 9/10The Best bit (May contain SPOILERs):
When Trinity and Neo come to the Matrix to rescue Morpheus from the Agents,
they have to pass a metal detector at the lobby. When Neo goes through it,
it naturally beeps. He reveals to the guard he has a LOT of weapons under
his coat. The guard goes: "Holy Sh*t!"
And the shooting begins!
 

******
15 July 2003
7

This movie is made very cleverly. It mixes a lot of long-known philosophical
ideas into one movie filled with action and special effects. A guaranteed
way to succes. However, such an ambitious theme also sets more expectations,
and after all has been considered, the only conclusion can be that no new
philosophical insights emerge and no deep thoughts have been provoked once
the credits start rolling..

******
15 May 2003
8

Rating: 8 out of 10. Directed by Andy Wachowski and Larry Wachowski. `The
Matrix' is an action packed science fiction story full of movie aphorisms,
but fortunately has many innovative ideas. The surprise hit of the summer of
1999 grossing over $170 million, `The Matrix' was the fifth highest grossing
movie in North America that year.I love many genres of film, but I mostly watch drama or thriller movies, and
generally avoid the action genre. So I was pleasantly surprised by `The
Matrix', it was a great diversion that was welcomed when I first watched it.
Having just seen `Matrix Reloaded' today, I feel the need to see this movie
again sometime soon.There were two things I didn't like about this movie. One, the acting is
unremarkable and nearly nonexistent, there is more dancing than real acting.
Two, the dialogue is terribly cliched. Even with its flaws, `The Matrix' isn't bad at all and worth viewing for
anyone that has not seen it yet.

******
12 May 2003
8

Since there are already plot summaries of this movie, I won't waste your
time rewriting them. On to my review...I only had 2 problems with this movie:1) Since the machines are dependent on solar power, (as if they couldn't
CHANGE where they got their electricity from) the world governments decide
to block out the sunlight. Well. Isn't that bright. Wakie, wakie...
without
sunlight, plants don't grow. Without plants, animals don't have anything
to
eat. Without plants and animals, PEOPLE have nothing to eat. So... Let's
kill off every living thing on earth, just so we can say we won. We beat
the
machines. Someone's got the IQ of a grape. Peeled. Still, that's par for
the
course with governments, so it's not beyond the realm of
possibility.2) Even accepting that our twits... er... governments DID block out the
sun,
here comes Morpheus, the freedom fighter. His plan is to release all of
these people (who are COMPLETELY unaware of their actual situation are are
living perfectly happy "lives" INSIDE The Matrix) into the real world...
where their muscles have to be rebuilt, where there is no sun, no plants,
no
animals, and NO FOOD. What's the phrase? From Scylla to Charybdis,
perhaps?
From frying pan to fire? Given that we only know what our senses tell us,
and the input from our senses is interpreted by our brains, wouldn't these
people be better off INSIDE? There they may be "slaves," but they are
living
comfortable, happy lives (according to the sensory data that their brains
are registering, at any rate). They get to determine the course of their
virtual lives just as if they were living in the real world (excepting
that
they're more comfortable than they would be aboard the
Nebuchadnezzar).Now, having gotten THAT off of my chest, this is a great movie, provided
it
is approached from the correct perspective. I didn't see Top Gun for the
plot. Nor did I see Days of Thunder for the plot. This movie is EYE-CANDY.
Great special effects, decent (while not outstanding) acting, lots of
action
sequences, and visually pleasing thespians (Carrie-Anne Moss and Belinda
McClory are both knockouts and, I assume, the feminine gender appreciates
the surface aspects of Keanu Reeves). Perhaps the best acting was done by
Hugo Weaving (compare Agent Smith with Elrond in "Lord of the Rings" and
you'll see the range that Weaving achieves).I have to dock the movie a point each for the plotholes mentioned above,
but, subsequent to the suspension of disbelief, the storyline follows the
expected paths and provides substantial entertainment (which is what we
were
watching it for in the 1st place). "If one expects plot, one will be
disappointed. If one does NOT expect plot, the lack of it goes unnoticed."
(Credit: C.S. Knepper)8 out of 10

******
8 May 2003
10

The Matrix is simply the best movie I've ever seen. The story, the
fighting,
the music, everything was just so great that I almost can't put it into
words. And now The Matrix Reloaded is coming. I just hope It'll be as good
as the first movie. And after seeing the trailers, It just may be so.


******
19 April 2003
8

The Matrix, starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Ann Moss,
and
Hugo Weaving, is an amazing film about a normal citizen nicknamed Neo
(Reeves) who is called upon by Morpheus (Fishburne), a mysterious man who
believes that Neo is the chosen one who can save the world from Agent
Smith
(Weaving) and his other almost immortal agents. The movie takes place in
two
different worlds.  The real world, which is dark and evil, and the
Matrix,
which is a computer generated modern day world, which normal people think
that they live in.  The only people who know that the Matrix is fake are
Morpheus, his band of helpers, the Agents, and now Neo.  The incredible
scope and depth of this movie is somewhat overwhelming.  The 'good guys'
transport between the two world by way of telephone, which confused me
and
most likely everyone who has seen it. However the action, the special
effects, and the cinematography are beyond amazing, making this one of
the
coolest action films of all time. Keanu Reeve's acting is definitely not
Oscar worthy, but he looks good in his sunglasses and trench coat while
flying through the air and taking out tons of guys in the process.  The
movie does have a corny ending that then, to some extent, leaves you
hanging, however because of the amazing special effects, actions scenes,
and
creative plot, it's definitely a great movie.

******
19 March 2003
8

If NOT, STOP reading reviews!If you are lucky, someone else hasn't spoilt the movie for you yet in
other
reviews.This movie is the kind of movie that can be easily ruined, I suggest (if)
you haven't seen it that you go see it.
AFTER you've seen it, then come read these reviews. It's a great science
fiction movie, good action sequences and a fantastic plot / concept which
will (REALLY) blow you away (if it's not already spoilt)I've had a hard time writing this review, retyped it 3 times now, but I've
decided to go with that above.
The only way I can do this movie the justice it deserves is to make sure
others got the same experience out of it as me, I'd be sorely disapointed
if
someone else missed out because someone spoilt it for them. If you are as
passionate about movies as myself you really will love this great film, so
this is the best way of ensuring others do too.
(good luck :)   )Do yourself a favour and see it, but read no more reviews if you haven't
seen it yet and don't know much about it (hopefully) the movie will speak
for itself.Great storyline / concept
Good action / effects (not that that's important - although often people
think that's all this movie is about it's NOT there's a fantastic twist to
the movie)
Fairly good acting even from the often loathed Keanu Reaves (I don't mind
him to be honest)I'd honestly rate this an 8.5 / 10 (no movie deserves 10)
For those of you who have had it ruined by other spoiler type reviews, you
have my pity, you miss out on the jawdropping experience that is The
Matrix.
You have to see it to beleive it.


******
2 February 2003
7

**SPOILERS**The Special effects for this film were spectacular and it has been copied
in
many other films. Especially during a fight scene when the characters
would
suddenly stop in mid-air.But, I felt that the story of this film took a while to take off. Once,
Neo
had been told the truth and exited the matrix the story began to take
off.
But, I felt that the beginning of the film seemed to go on for days and
that
took away from the rest of the film. 

******
28 January 2003
7

I saw "The Matrix" in the theatres when it first came out, forgot all about
it, then saw it again a few weeks ago. I think maybe it takes a third or
fourth viewing to begin to understand this?What's up with the whole "Matrix" thing anyway? I think that was the main
fault in the entire film (besides Reeve's awful acting and obvious lack of
anything upstairs) which was that all of us who don't speak Techy - you
know, that alien language computer geeks use - don't have a clue what's
going on. OR, we do, but don't understand WHY.The special FX were pretty cool, but I was so confused, I couldn't pay
attention to half of them. Think I'll rent the DVD today. All in all, a
decent movie with some good acting and a very cool plot (I think).
:o)

******
30 December 2002
7

*Minor Spoilers*I have to say that this was pretty good for an action movie. It had a rather
original approach (although it's nothing new - the ideas HAVE already been
there, although many people don't know or believe)and GREAT special effects.
But it also has the same flaws as most action movies: flat characters (Neo
is the only person we get to know at least a bit), a terribly boring last
twenty or thirty minutes, which have no story and are just there to display
more off the special effects (and even the bullettime gets boring after
you've seen it once), and an absolutely stupid ending with Neo coming back
to life after receiving a kiss by Trinity (OH PLEASE!!!).
Anyway, I think this is nearly as good as an action movie can get, so see it
if you have the chance.

******
21 December 2002
8

what a fantastic film.. if you have not seen this yet then why!! GO SEE
IT
NOW!!!the only "moan" i have is with the fight scene at the very end alittle
one
part of it is alittle "silly" but over all a film every one should see!!
8/10 from me! 

******
11 October 2002
8

The Matrix is an encapsulating classic from the ever wonderful wachowski
brothers, Laurence fishbourne is superb as Morpheus and Keanu Reeves as
Neo
sees a complete career renaisance after such dire films as Chain Reaction
and Jonny Mmenonic which were starting to prove that he couldn't act, Hugo
Weaving steals the show as the evil agent in pursuit, overall a good
film.

******
30 August 2002
10

Words like 'classics' and 'masterpiece' might be more convenient alongside
titles like 'Casablanca', yet they are not incongruous with 'The Matrix'.
Sure the ideas used in the film were not new in science fiction (and
philosophy). Of course, there were lots of plots about ordinary people
getting familiar with troublesome job of saving the world. There were
audio-visually astounding movies with inventive fights and action
sequences.
There were self - ironical movies. Maybe even cinematographic inventions of
'The Matrix' were not completely new. But perhaps never all the elements
were fused together with such a skill to produce so impressive entity.
Every
detail of the film, while beautiful on its own, is integral part of the
whole, occupying exact place and performing exact function. Generally, I'm
offended by violence on screen. But in this film, all the brutal scenes are
there for a reason, and they are delivered in aesthetical way. Dialogue
might seem unrealistic, yet it is perfect as a part of the whole. It is
amazing how quite sophisticated ideas are translated into simple, yet
metaphorical language. People don't say 'as far as we have materialistic
explanation of subjective idealism here...'. They say 'there is no spoon'
instead. The acting could be better, but it is not bad. At least, Laurence
Fishburne and Hugo Weaving really do act.Last of all, there are few words on effectiveness of the film in my case.
When leaving the cinema after the 3rd viewing a month ago (yes, one can
watch 'The Matrix' in a packed theatre 3 years after its release!) I
thought
that, at last, the experience was more like of having fun rather than being
hypnotized ... just to find myself on the wrong trolleybus going to the
wrong end of the city afterwards. Guess that people might watch this movie
even 50 years later  forgetting its age, feeling its power.


******
24 May 2002
9

The best thing I could say about this film is that in the theater when it
was over my wife and I just looked at each other, grinned and started
talking at a million miles an hour.  Not many movies can give you that
completely blown away feeling.

******
14 April 2002
6

Matrix presents interesting concepts about time and space and certainly
has
plenty of action.  However, while it is billed as science fiction, there
is
little to no science.  The movie's greatness all lies in its
action.In a science fiction movie I always hope for some science being part and
parcel to the plot.  There are few such movies out there that do this.
The
Philadelphia Experiment (1984), Andromeda Strain, & The Thirteenth Floor
do
this.  But they are few and far between.  Some science fiction novels that
do this are Dune, Battlefield Earth (the best in this regard),
Resurrection.But those looking for action and thrills will not be disappointed in
Matrix.
Just don't look for any science fiction.  There isn't any that will
impress
or interest you.

******
28 February 2002
7

Just like the case with the vastly overrated Blade Runner : professional
job
from a couple of good technicians but nothing more . I will have to admit
that the script had some potential but the quite amateurish direction by
the
Wachowski Brothers almost ruined the entire effort .
Before I summarize the plot , I would like to point out that I am
extremely upset with the comments "Philosophical" , "thought provoking" .
ARE YOY FEELING OK ???? Do you seriously believe that the script is
"complex" and the film "requires more than one viewing"
!!!!!!?????? (just like the case with the overrated Usual Suspects which is
as simple and obvious as a cockroach on a white carpet) . If that 's so
then
I will strongly discourage you from EVER watching
"Twelve Monkeys" , "Dune" or "Sphere" because inevitably your brain cells
will short circuit . It seems like the majority of sci-fi lovers have never
read sci-fi short stories !!! The concept that we all live in a virtual
illusional reality is not at all original . I can recite numerous examples
but I will just stick to " Marianna " , a very short story by Fritz Lang
where the heroine discovers that her mansion and her husband were
holographic hallucinations and even herself was nothing but a wish coming
true . The terrifying truth was that her real self (from were she was
projected) was institutionalized in an asylum and was treated with an
alternative personality/wish fulfillment program. Another short fantasy
story claimed that very few people are indeed true and the rest were again
the result of the subconscious materialization from the real ones' brains
(their "soulmates" conveniently coming true from the wishes of their
counterparts) . I can go on and on but I don 't have to . Even for the
movie
fans which haven 't read sci-fi novels , it is impossible that they haven
't
watched similar films . The infiltration in an alternative reality ,
artificially constructed , is present in "Tron" (1982) with Jeff Bridges or
in "Total Recall" (1990) where the question what is real and what is not ,
is inherent throughout the film . The reviewers who see correlation between
Matrix and Plato 's philosophical theories make me want to laugh . On top
of
that there are the ridiculous "biblical symbolisms" the film-makers have
insisted to include and publicize . I don 't think that by calling the ship
"Nabouchodonosor" or by killing off the hero and resurrecting him there are
christianic references . Then Ripley in Alien Resurrection should be titled
a Christ figure or we can suppose that the "Janus" plan in "Judge Dredd"
should be regarded as a metaphor for the Roman Empire and the ruthless
games
between the Caesar and the Senate !!!!! And the by the way , the pattern of
the (chosen) One is omnipotent in almost every sci-fi , with the most
notable case Luke Skywalker in Star Wars . The dystopic future with
machines
taking over humans is of course "borrowed" blatantly by the Terminator and
the plot device "Dying inside the virtual reality truly will kill you " is
apparently inspired from "Nightmare on elm street" .Ripping - off so many movies and getting away with so called "profound
originality" (!) is a great achievement by the Wachowski Bros and proves
how
brain washing the critics can be . Excuse me but I just want to get it off
my chest . I can 't stand seeing Matrix with an average of 8.5 while
brilliant movies like "Sphere" are stuck in 5.1 simply because the critics
(for various reasons) decided to pan them .On to  the movie : we have a very large introduction (45
minutes maybe longer) before Neo (Keanu Reeves) gets to the "real world"
with the guidance of "Morpheus" (Lawrence Fishburn) . If this introduction
was shortened we would have a better movie . Anyway the middle part of the
movie is undoubtly the best . After we learn the background of this strange
society we are introduced to the submarine crew (Morpheus' friends) . I
cannot spoil what happens next but I will say the moody atmosphere is
highly
successful . The climate is depressing , awe - inspiring and contains all
the elements of a great existential drama .But hey this is Hollywood and the final 40 minutes are frittered
away : after the 3 leads (Reeves , Fishburn , Moss) are trapped in the
illusional world they are trying to escape and the film degenerates to a
poor shoot 'em up with irritating constant noisy gunfire and silly
video-gameish action scenes to satisfy the Playstation 13 year old freaks
who probably digged them and pitched the Matrix to the aforementioned 8.5 .
The karate scenes are decent but other than that the SFX stink BAD BAD BAD
.
Not only the repeated gunfire is annoying but the much hyped slow motion
special effects are unbelievably c**ppy and patchily edited ("Scary Movie"
to its credit did these scenes justice!!!!!!) One scene in the roof of a
scyscraper is the perfect example . We see the bad guy shooting Neo . Then
we see Neo verging backwards in slow motion . Then we hear Neo squeak
"Agh!!" and then we see the flight path of the bullet and we are supposed
to
presume that Neo was hit . Bottom case : we never actually SAW the bullet .
Was the budget that low ?I will lie if I say that I didn 't enjoy the Matrix . But it is very
overrated . Sets and costumes are adequate and despite of the many flaws in
the direction there are memorable scenes like the visit to the Oracle 's
home or the climactic chase of Neo and the baddies . I can 't say more in
order not to reveal plot secrets . On the acting side : the 3 leads give
quite solid performances , nothing great but passable but I believe the
supporting cast stole the show . My personal favorite from the crew members
is Tank and I am sad he won 't be in the sequel . Speaking of the sequel I
will once again refer to the faults of the film . Overlong introduction
,weak finale , lousy SFX          BUT if they manage to jettison all these
defects and they manage to reproduce the mystic , melancholic climate of
the
middle sequence then Matrix 2 will be a h**l of a sequel . Therefore I
conclude with hope that in Matrix 2 they will wipe off the demerits and
they
will enhance the virtues to maximum . As it is Matrix is a fairly enjoyable
could-have-done-much-more film . A controversial8 / 10

******
6 February 2002
8

The only reason that I can think of to watch this movie is if you 
happen to be a philosophy professor and your students are having
trouble understanding Descartes Cogito ergo sum and the
subsequent 'Brain in a Barrel' problem.  Then it might be of some
use.  Alternatively, if you are having your students read Chuang Tze
and they can't understand the butterfly dream, then this might help.  
Otherwise, steer clear of this one.

******
29 November 2001
8

What is the Matrix?  The question upon many people's lips, and on the side
of a few buses in Melbourne, I can tell you.  Well.I could tell you the
answer to that question, but then I would have to kill you.  You
understand?The Matrix, besides being abundant in awesome special effects (mainly
computer generated) also has quite a fictional tale to tell.  The story,
without giving too much away, was very computer orientated, a little
confusing if not paid attention to, fast moving and a little frightening
to
wrap your mind around.  Unfortunately I don't think I can say much more
without giving too much away.  "Oh, come on," you're going.  No, sorry, I
really can't.This movie was shot in Sydney (so my friends tell me) and quite a few
Aussie
actors make appearances, including Hugo Weaving (Jurassic Park) and Matt
Doran (ex-Home and Away).  Keanu Reeves (even though I don't really think
that much of him) was pretty good in the leading role and depicted his
character as a type of enigma, probably leaving most of the audience to
wonder if.right until the end.After seeing this film and walking out of the theatre, I took a look
around
me and couldn't help but think, "Is this real?"  Definitely one of those
movies that leave you thinking, "But, what if it's real?"If you were pondering the thought of seeing this movie, I would definitely
suggest that you see it in a large theatre, with a huge screen and
surround
sound (or whatever you call it), definitely adds to the
atmosphere.I give it 4 wide, uncomprehending eyes. (4/5)


******
10 November 2001
10

Most people comment on the action or special effects when talking about
The
Matrix.  That is not what the movie was all about though, watch closely
and
see what you can discover!The symbolism in this movie is fantastic.  A person has to know their
history and mythology and really watch the way things are presented on the
screen.  I never knew that the name Morpheus is a mythological character
of
dreaming or that Nebuchadnezzar (the name of Morpheus' ship) was a ruler
of
the Babylonian empire who defeated his opponents to take over control.
Every part of the movie is for a reason and has meaning.  Things like this
are what makes this movie great and enjoying to watch!


******
27 October 2001
10

The first time i read about the matrix i was like yeah yeah another Virtual
Dumb reality movie. Then well i saw it. I was blown away from the first
scene. AMAZING. Smooth movements, slick action and unbelievable stunts.
Simply simply amazing. But why do i say it is art? Well just look at each
and every scene. If u just take snap shots of each scene and thier art
amongst themselves. The fight sequence, oh the fight sequences. My god i
have seen many many Action movies from Bruce lee's to Bruce willis' but
nothing prepared me for what was comming! The training scene to the tunnel
scene whoa. Bullet dodging WHOA where do these brothers get thier Ideas
from? Amazing. But the best part was when each and every word spoken by the
Oracle proved o be true. I never understood what she meant by "U might be
the one in another life but not in this" and indeed he gets reborn after
being shot down. Amazing. This movie will be as cult as starwars in the
following years. The whole Video and computer game industry is nuts over
it.
A dozen movies have ripped off the scenes of the Matrix fight sequences
(READ: Charlies Angles) and the only movie that will be upto the brilliance
of this movie is gonna be its sequel. The only weakness i saw in this near
perfect movie is that it started off as a grim twisted psychotic cyber tale
and in the ending became an all out thrill ride. Everybody who wants to
watch a great movie with an amazing story and action WATCH THIS
MOVIE


******
26 October 2001
10

On May 1999, I read on a Spanish specialized magazine some info about a
sci-fi that was cracking the US box-office. It was the second film of the
Wachowski Bros., unknown at that time, and Keanu Reeves starred. It
included
some amazing photos, but it reminded me of another Reeves' movie, "Johnny
Mnemonic": a sci-fi with a good premise and presentation, but irregular and
not very hooking...That film, however, had the abstract and yet attractive name of "The
Matrix". And it had to have something special to smash the box-office so
heavily.July came, and I discovered that you mustn't make any judgments or comments
about something you know very little or nothing about. Because after
watching this movie, I just couldn't believe what I had just
seen.After having watched the film almost 15 times, I can list all the excellent
aspects of "The Matrix", but the plot and the Visual FX (Oscar) obviously
outstand. And it is after watching the Wachowski's first movie, "Bound",
that you can explain many things.These brothers really have a lot of talent. They have kept the style of
their debut in "The Matrix", but, what's best, it is a style that's easily
distinguishable. A sophisticated directing, in which cinematography is
their
best support. The film is actually decolored, and that matches perfectly
with the film's spirit. But also their conception of thrilling stories with
a touch of film-noir, that make the viewer think and wonder about the plot
or message. I came out of this film with a certain paranoia, asking myself
if this apparent reality is not what we think it is.And I OBVIOUSLY know it is only fantasy, but that's one of the successes of
the film: transport the viewer, and activating his brain to think for once
in his life about what a film can tell us, developing in some way our
imagination and getting him away from this world for at least a few
minutes.That's what's sci-fi all's about: making us think in what we know it is not
real... or it's still not real. And this film can conceive hundreds of
ideas
and thoughts in our heads, which would be impossible to list. At least
mine's...The script as I said is original and polished, and containing its correct
doses of action sequences and, what's best, a great majestic ending as I
hadn't seen in many years. I'm not telling nothing about the plot because I
hate spoilers (I don't want to be one), but trust me if I say it's amazing
and incredible. The film keeps an excellent rhythm thanks to the Oscarized
editing. There's an excellent, superb example of editing that maybe most of
you haven't really recognized: the bomb arming sequence. That's editing
made
art. And you can see there is a good production design for the whole
lot.The directors make their part then, and also the actors do. Because unlike
many other supposed great production films, such as "Lost In Space", in
which actors are secondary, here they don't get absorbed and wiped out by
the Visual FX department. Keanu Reeves may be considered by many people as
a
cold actor, but that's just because he doesn't fit in many comic or
romantic
roles he's played since "Speed": he's a natural born action actor. And in
"The Matrix" he does quite a very good job indeed as Neo. But the best is
Laurence Fishburne, giving Morpheus all throughout the film the mystery,
patience and wisdom that surrounds the role since the start, when he's just
known as a myth. Other characters are OK, but I want to remark Joe
Pantoliano's job (haha, been naughty as usual!).About FX... I am a great "Star Wars" fan, and "The Phantom Menace" and "The
Matrix" were nominated both for 1999's best FX. However, I wanted the
second
one to win (another Oscar), because of their innovation and originality.
Fantastic. How could someone ever imagine a man dodging bullets? Wow... The
greatest thing about them is what I said before: they don't overtake the
whole film, they INTEGRATE in the story, they are necessary for the plot to
progress and transmit the story. The action sequences (the kung-fu
training,
the Hall cross-fire, the heli blast...) are superbly sequenced and and are
massive. Please don't watch the film on full screen: get the Widescreen
version or don't watch it. Simple and clear.In the musical aspects, there is a correct balance between Don Davis' score
(a pity it's too short) and the songs, some of the best metal, hardcore
anthems of the last years, which are present because they fit with the
film's spirit (they all belong to a determined genre), rather than as a
mere
compilation of big hits, the typical soundtrack  "structure" these days...
Sound and FX were carefully worked out, and watching (or better say
listening to) it on theaters was a real pleasure...No better end for this comment than the label many have given to the film:
the perfect End Of Millenium movie, as it reflects many of the fashions of
the 1990's (comic book homage and manga, Hong Kong cinema influences,
cyberpunk and computer technology... ) as well as that apocalyptical
sensation society experienced at the gates of 2000 (don't forget the many
biblical references in the film). "The Matrix" apart from satifying and
impress, will leave you with a quite sweet taste with the powerful epilogue
gloriously accompanied by Rage Against The Machine's "Wake Up". Don't you
dare missing it.Thanks to the Wachowskis for reviving a genre that was almost devalued in
the 1990's.No doubt my vote's a 10 ;)

******
23 October 2001
8

 I am your average movie going idiot. I enjoy films with explosions, full
frontal nudity, carnage, and all the good stuff. Films like Blade, Pink
Flamingoes, The Rocky Horror Picture Show, and Pulp Fiction. I can not help
but feel, from reading your comments, that your criticism is far fetched,
and a desperate attempt to flaunt you clever aversion of main-stream
thought. Do you really hate the movie? I find it to be excellent on a few
levels. When I first saw it, I walked out and said to Will(yes, I do have
friends, albeit imaginary)" Thats like Twelve Monkeys, that whole dream
stuff, its kind of freaky", he said "yeah, it was really cool when they
stopped the bullets". Maybe you think it was like Star Wars, but, after
seeing the Phantom *swag* Menace, I am sympathetic to your fear. Quit
pretending to be intuitive and watch it again, your not to smart to like
kung fu.

******
16 October 2001
9

What can I say, this really is a good film. From start to finish you're
on
the edge of the seat, the plot is surprisingly original (the TV adverts
don't give away much). The opening scene is very good, an action packed
scene with the mysterious Trinity and the equally mysterious
"Agents".
The whole film has this 90's conspiracy theory feel to it, the scene in
the interogation room is a bit dark and intimedating, 1984 style. The
scene
where Neo meets Morpheus is also very atmospheric and dark.
The effects are, well revolutionary, the use of bullet time photography
is incredible I hope this technique is used more often in films, it really
improved the fight scenes. Even without BT photography the fight scenes
still look incredible, the govt. lobby scene to mention but a
few.
The plot is very good, without spoiling it its a kind of alternative
reality type plot, the closest film that is similar that springs to mind
is
The 13th Floor but its only vaguely similar. There are however a few
inconsistancies in the plot which reduce the credibility which is
disappointing. But those aside its still a terrific film a must see for
any
action fan. 9/10.

******
15 October 2001
10

If someone were to write a list of the 10 most defining films of the 90s,
they couldn't possibly get away without mentioning this one, because it is
just so groundbreaking in it's approach, use of special effects and depth of
plot.I'm particularly fond of this film, mainly for it's overlying philosophy
that's presented throughout the film. Morpheus clues us in to this with his
Zen-like commentary and references to Through The Looking Glass- nothing is
what it seems, and everything is at your control in the right mind-set. Thus
is the Matrix. 

******
8 September 2001
10

This is the best movie.  This may sound strange but its the best thing to
watch after a 3 year relationship ends...believe me. Some days when i feel
like crap i watch this movie and feel better.  What can i say, i'm weird. 
Everything about it great and well written. I love this movie.


******
3 September 2001
7
... but considering the quality of writing these days, it won't return again
for awhile.  This film requires the usual sci-fi suspension of disbelief but
has several things going for it:  the characters are actually developed in a
detective-movie-noirish way, the hero and others struggle with decisions and
THEN act, as opposed to JUST doing something, and most obviously the film
has a color-and-costuming visual style that remains a bold statement
throughout the production.    This is a film that chronicles the style of the turn of this century in
the same way that "Georgy Girl" caught the London of the 1960's, and that
"Laura" captured the deco-elegant look of the 1940's. 


******
23 August 2001
9

I originally gave this flick 9 stars - I retract my vote and give it
4.
The more you think about this movie the dumber it gets.I'm convinced that our culture has been so dumbed down that it can be duped
into thinking that movies like this are "the best ever made" ... much like
the drecks of music (Brittany, NSync, et.al.) can sell multiple
plantinums.Our youth culture has been living under a stupid-rock for so long, they
wouldn't know a masterpiece of a film if it jumped out and bit them on
their
collective ass.Hey, I like a good action flick as much as the next guy, but come on, I
read
messages here that state that the people who don't like The Matrix "just
don't get it." Sorry kiddies, there is nothing to get. Nothing spiritual,
challenging, or anything that "makes you think." You want a good movie that
challenges your concept of reality, then check out Brazil or The Usual
Suspects. Even Fight Club can make you scratch the side of your head more
than this pretentious essay in psychobabble.As far as plot goes, there aren't many flicks with as many holes as this
one. Human batteries!? Give me a break. Anybody who stayed awake for high
school biology knows that this is preposterous. Sunlight, folks -- you
gotta
have it. And don't even get me started on the curious lack of muscle
atrophy...!But let me do you all a nice service and shatter the principle piece of
your
precious flick completely -- the matrix itself. Doesn't anybody question
why
the hell the bots would give a rat's ass what kind of reality their
human-robots are experiencing? I mean (laf,laf) if I was a robot, would I
be
worrying about coma-state, muscle-atrophied human vegetables waking up from
their pods? LAF!LAF! This is the dumbest concept for a flick since the good
ol' B-movies of the fifties. Wake up people! And the bots need energy, so
they harvest humans?! What the hell are they feeding them? Rocks? They need
some organic material, where are they getting it without the sunlight? See
where this leads you? Lazy story-telling, if you ask me. And I don't think
the writers/directors buy their own crap either, but damn! Keanu looks so
cool with the guns and suspend-action drop-kicks, who cares?!You want a good action flick with a plot that holds together, then check
out
The Terminator or hell, even Die Hard. At least they don't waste brain
cells
in a futile attempt at taking themselves too seriously.Will I watch The Matrix again? Sure. But for the same reason I'll ride the
same roller coaster at Great Adventure again, or watch Road House,
Independence Day and Red Dawn again - cheap, disposable
thrills.

******
23 May 2001
8

Matrix is ground-breaking as far as CGI is concerned. We witness truly
marvelous artwork. Aside from that, it's nothing special, nor original. It
mostly reminded me of Carpenter's They Live. It stimulates our interest till
the moment of the big revelation and then degenerates to a shooting
extravaganza. We get some royal with cheese at the end with the love story
and the usual close ups of Keanu for the girls. I didn't regret having seen
it though, the guys at the visual effects department did a monumental
job.

******
17 May 2001
9

It is such an enjoyable journey to watch this film. Stunning choreography
and special effects, spectacular cinematography (which makes Keanu Reeves
look so...you know...so...) and the theme of the story - the 'real' world
and the virtual world.Personally, I find our real world nearly surreal, almost a dream. But in
this movie, you can live a more real life in the virtual world, where it
appears to be a dream but it's not entirely so. You can learn so many
different things much faster by getting those programmes into your head.
In
the virtual world you look a lot better, you can be your 'real' self, that
is to say, to be able to use your potential to prove to the world that
you're someone special.To me, this film has inspired me in some way. The reality is, we are
getting
closer and closer to that virtual paradise (a paradise with commotion, of
course).If you're already a fan of Keanu's, than I suppose you will say to
yourself
'Keanu Reeves is my hero! I want to be like him!'; if you're not really a
fan, than it's most definitely sure that you'll become one after you see
'The Matrix'!    

******
16 May 2001
9

"The Matrix", which owes its look and style to modern films ("Blade Runner",
any Hong Kong martial arts movie starring Jet Li), actually tells a mythical
story more reminiscent of the tales of Hercules, or of Robin Hood.  Despite
its ingenious sci-fi trappings, at its core "The Matrix" is a simple tale of
good versus evil, David versus Goliath . . . and it introduces its audience
to an unexplored, wondrous mythos of murky history.  In the process of
telling its tale, "The Matrix" hints at a richly plotted past that's never
fully defined, but only hinted at with offhanded scraps of dialogue.  In
this manner, it introduces a fictional world in many as breathtaking as the
original "Star Wars" did twenty-two years earlier -- but "The Matrix" also
tells a compelling story, unlike the more contemporary "Phantom Menace". The hero of "The Matrix" is Neo (Keanu Reeves), who at first glance is just
a geeky software programmer at a dull and boring company, looking to earn a
paycheck just like everybody else. At home, though, in the small hours of
the night, he's a computer hacker, and a good one.   His hacking activities
draw the attention of two cyberpunk iconoclasts:  Morpheus (Laurence
Fishburne), who exudes Zen-Master cool; and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss), a
leather-wearing femme fatale. Morpheus and Trinity reveal a profound truth
about the world to the disbelieving Neo: the world doesn't exist. 
Everything that seems real is in fact a forced form of virtual reality,
designed to make the people of the world blindly subservient to an alien-run
"system." Morpheus and his group of cyber-rebels want to bring this system
-- "The Matrix" -- down, and firmly believe that Neo is the messiah-like
"One" who can lead his rebels to victory. The look of "The Matrix" is absolutely fantastic.  Taking a page out of
literary works like William Gibson's "Mona Lisa Overdrive", the film blends
film noir with "dirty" high tech -- there's nothing bright and shiny in "The
Matrix"; nothing to suggest the happy future of "The Jetsons".  What's left
is a gritty world where both intellect and imagination rule. From this
world, directors Larry and Andy Wachowski create an epic comic-book conflict
where the conflict between good and evil is blown up into slick, stylized,
spectacular proportions.  The special effects, which includes CGI,
traditional animation techniques, model work, and martial arts wire work,
are all blended to make jaw-dropping action sequences . . . and to enhance
the story.  (The opening scene with Trinity alone makes the film worth
watching).  I don't know if anybody really knows what cyberspace will
ultimately look like, but I hope when the time comes when people can immerse
themselves in a world of virtual reality, it looks as cool as it does in
"The Matrix".  The performances, for the most part, are perfect for the film.  Keanu Reeves
doesn't exactly flex his acting chops as the impassive Neo, but the low-key
approach seems appropriate for the role.  As Morpheus, Laurence Fishburne is
sensational, making the character a perfect mix of a martial arts master, a
cryptic philosopher, and a full-blown action hero.  Fishburne never raises
his voice once during the film, but he has so much presence and confidence,
he still comes across as the most commanding, authoritative character in the
entire movie.  Hugo Weaving is also impressive as the main villain, Agent
Smith, although by the end of the film he's glowered and barked exasperated
orders so many times, it looks like he's watched Tommy Lee Jones in "The
Fugitive" once too often.  The biggest waste of a character, however, is
Carrie-Anne Moss and Trinity, who still shines despite the criminal
under-use of her character.  Trinity absolutely sets the incredible tone of
"The Matrix" in the opening scene, showing off her potential as possibly one
of the greatest female action heroes in cinematic history . . . and then
she's immediately relegated to supporting character status the instant Neo
and Morpheus show up.  Memo to the Wachowski Brothers: Actually USE Trinity
in the "Matrix" sequels; it'd be nice to see her live up to what was hinted
at in the first film."The Matrix" presents a number of interesting concepts, ranging from the
philosophical nature of existence itself to the pure adrenaline rush of
combat in the cybernetic world.  (Although, it's slightly disappointing to
see that despite all the brilliant originality of `The Matrix', wars are
still apparently fought with mundane nine-millimeter handguns and AK-47s.) 
These concepts alone would make `The Matrix' a terrific movie, but they're
presented with such panache, the film rockets into the realm of the all-time
greats.  `The Matrix' is nearly everything one could hope for from a sci-fi
blockbuster.  Grade: A


******
12 May 2001
9

I just saw "The Matrix" again at a casino hotel, while Rachel snoozed at my
side and I kept the volume down.  I'd come to equate a good viewing of this
movie with: have a great sound system or you'll miss 90%.  But I just
followed the story this time, and was left wondering:"Who ARE these guys?"
the writers, directors; the ones with the vision for this dazzling
psychological and spiritual tale?Those who don't get this movie probably won't ever in this lifetime. They
rail about "plot holes" and "predictability".  Guess they never read Joseph
Campbell on myth and allegory."The Matrix" could be better, but that's like saying the hot tub sucked
because you didn't have a Swedish Massage afterwards. . . or something like
that. . .Each character manifests a distinct level of spiritual development, from the
"Initiate: Neo", to the "King: Morpheus", to the "Sage: Oracle" , to the
"Shadow: Cipher", to   the "Warrior:Trinity/Tank/Dozer" to the psychological
concept of "Toxic Introject: Agents", to "The Man: Neo's corporate boss" ,
to the "Ferryman across the River of the Dead: Tank", to the "Magician:
Mouse,Tank. . ." , to the "Lover: Neo, Trinity" . . .it goes on and on. 
More informed mythologists than I should have a field day with this
movie.To those of you with a mythic bent, watch this one again with this in the
corner of your mind: See if you can identify with every single character;
all the contradictory pieces of us are spinning right there for us to
behold.What a trip.


******
5 May 2001
9

I really like this movie, but seeing it ranked #40 of all time is laughable.
 There is, or course, the geek effect, the fact that techie folk who
frequent this forum are likely to rate a techie film abnormally high, but
there must be hundreds of films, at least, that deserve to be ranked higher
than this one.Granted, it is a great story.  Not Star Wars great, and certainly not
Lawrence of Arabia or even Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolfe great.  But oh
what a concept.  Humans have been subjugated by their machines, a concept
James Cameron explored ages ago in the Terminator pictures.  But Matrix has
more wow and gee whiz than any of its genre.The fight scenes are spectacular.  Carrie-Anne Moss kicks ass and looks
great doing it.  Hugo Weaving may not be the most intimidating man in black,
and I still think of him as Mitzi from Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, but I
wouldn't get on his bad side.  And I have to admire this movie for not going
the brain dead muppet route of so many otherwise great sci-fi films just to
milk the aftermarket.Keanu Reeves, who has made a great career out of so very little talent, may
have found his best vehicle since Bill and Ted.  His deadpan, detached
delivery is perfect, especially in the films climactic battle between Reeves
and Weaving.  I have to say that I can't imagine a Matrix without
him.My absolute favorite scene is the one with Spoon Boy.  "There is no spoon." 
I still get chills.  I also have to say that I didn't quite buy Joe
Pantoliano selling out his comrades because he missed the taste of a good
steak.  I think that story line could have used a little work.  Laurence
Fishburne is definitely the class of the cast, and I am delighted that he
has signed on for both sequels, already in production.All in all, you absolutely must own this movie.  It is fraught with clever
allusions, dazzling effects, and more fun than summer vacation.

******
25 August 2000
8

The Matrix has the the best action scenes of all time. It's not original,
but hell, who cares? I saw this at cinema, having no idea what it was going
to be like. I didn't understand the plot, but I absolutely loved it! So much
action, cool characters, and flo-mo I was stunned. A lot like Ghost in the
Shell, but better. 8.5/10.

******
24 June 2000
7

Alright, I possibly have more to say about this movie than about any other
I've commented on here at IMDB.  Well, I finally saw the Matrix.  The way
to
describe it was that I expected to love it and give it a 10, but I only
give
it a 7.First, some of the good things.  The action and much of the special
effects
really are great.  The sequences at the end are incredible.  Laurence
Fishburne and Carrie Anne Moss looked really cool in their outfits.Now, some of the bad things.  I don't remember thinking that Keanu Reeves
was so bad in say, Speed.  But here, he's just not very good.  He sure
looks
cool in the black attire and in the action sequences and all, but in the
scenes where he has much dialogue, he's just not very good.  Actually, my
biggest complaint is something that judging from other people's comments,
I
am in the minority on.  I'm talking about the villains.  Were they meant
to
be seen as sinister or funny?  I found them to be neither.  I found Agent
Smith to be highly annoying.  The way he talked just grated on me.  And, I
swear, I fully expected the MIB team of Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones to
come out and tell someone to look at their little light.  The other two
agents were even worse.  The part where all the bullets stop before
hitting
Neo at the end and the three agents simultaneously lower the guns was so
ridiculous.  The lowering of the guns made it look like a farce of a
movie.
Was it mean to be seen like that?  One other little complaint and I have
to
apologize for this one.  During the interrogation scene when they put the
bug or whatever in Neo, they call him a "program writer".  Please.  If
they
are going to portray someone in the software engineering profession, they
should have asked someone who knows about it.  It looks like they should
have asked one of those many computer people who worked on the movie to
look
over the script.  I know it is a tiny complaint, but when you have been
doing that kind of work for several years like I have, calling it "program
writer" sounds highly, highly hokey.But, overall, the movie is pretty cool.  The action to a great extent make
up for the bad things.  I rented Blade Runner also this weekend, and I'm
hoping it'll be better than the Matrix.

******
19 April 2000
7

The first two thirds of The Matrix are simply stunning. The visuals are
unlike any movie, the Wachowski brothers have created a roller coaster ride
with only a few stops (although those stops are just as beautiful as the
rest of the movie - I especially liked the sensitive display of Neo's
healing process after he had woken to the real world). The premise of the
movie - that the world might be nothing more than an illusion fed to our
heads - is a bit of a science fiction cliché, but it can still be used to
make an excellent sci-fi film (and most of the time The Matrix does just
that). The acting is good, even Keanu Reeves manages to be credible, by
acting as little as possible. Carrie-Anne Moss is also good, though her
screen time could have been longer. The one who really steals the show,
though, is Laurence Fishburne. His portrayal of Morpheus is excellent, I
especially like the little touches that separate his Matrix persona from the
Morpheus of the real world. To sum it up: technically speaking The Matrix is
nearly perfect.So, the set is excellent, the actors are good, and the speed is breathtaking
- what is there to complain about? The problem, as in so many other big
budget science fiction movies, is the ending. Don't get me wrong, I did
enjoy the last third as well, but only on a physical level, not
intellectually. The shoot-out in the lobby is one of the greatest action
scenes cinema has ever produced, but that's all it is - a great action
scene. The deeper elements of the plot (such as the agony agent Smith feels
having to live in a world populated by humans) are left unexplored when the
rumble begins. Scenes like Keanu Reeves yelling "My name is NEO!", or
Carrie-Anne Moss reviving Neo with a kiss make my cliché-o-meter bounce up
to ten. And why, oh why does a film with such potential have to end in a
kung-fu fight? Having already seen Bound, the Wachowski brothers' previous
film, I had high expectations for The Matrix, but in the end it was clear
that the low-budget Bound would still remain the better one of these two.
Big money doesn't always equal conventionality, but in this case, sadly, it
does.Let's just hope that the success of The Matrix gives the Wachowski brothers
the courage to make movies which are satisfying both visually AND
intellectually. They certainly are capable of doing so.

******
25 February 2000
6

This is the obligatory special effects film (along with THE MUMMY) of 1999. 
The kind of film you'd normally find Stallone or Willis or Schwarzenegger
starring in.    The complex plot is more of a thinking person's film than
most of the genre, but it does degenerate in its last half hour to the
formulaic and obligatory race/chase to save the world sequence.    The
special effects, editing, sound and art direction are stellar.  I'll leave
the analysis of the plot to those sci-fi afficianados who know what they're
talking about.   For me it was fast, entertaining and remarkably free of
gore.  It may be too "dark" for some tastes, but given the subject matte,
this was pretty much unavoidable.

******
20 January 2000
10

one of the best movies I've ever seen.
the special effects are awesome, and the way they've used slowmotion is
wonderful.
it's the movie of the millenium

******
13 January 2000
8

Great FX, but the so much hyped about story has been adapted better in
other
movies. The main actor does what he usually does: portray his one facial
expression. The first half of the movie is completely boring, the second
half can't live up to the expectations.

******
10 January 2000
10

Brilliant comic-book-style adventure action with extremely violent and
estethically beautiful action sequences. Hacker Neo is pulled out from the
Matrix, a computer program used by monstrous machines to control the human
race and supply power, in order to save the world. Stylish gunfighting and
martial arts in abundance - but with a story that bears and with an eye for
NOT making it ridiculous. One of the best modern films
ever.

******
29 December 1999
7

Having finally seen the Matrix after hearing people sing its praises for
months, I confess I'm a bit  baffled as to why it's so popular.  It was a
good film, yes -- slick visuals, cool effects, nice fight sequences,
interesting ideas -- but nowhere near a *great* film, and certainly
undeserving of the brou-ha-ha it's been getting.Great science fiction films are original, they provide a new visual or
mental language for the viewer or present old ideas in new ways.  Films
such
as Blade Runner, Alien, Star Wars: A New Hope, and 2001 are examples of
that
sort of filmmaking.  The Matrix is not.  The visuals are an uneasy mesh of
Blade Runner and Alien, the idea that our world is an illusion was most
recently explored in the far superior Dark City, and the mythology smacks
of
Star Wars.  Even though the movie does provide plenty of eye candy, it
pays
homage to the point of theft.The movie is also overlong, divests most of its plot twists in the first
30
minutes, relies too heavily on extended slo-mo fight scenes (How many
spent
rounds do we need to see floating slowly to the ground?), and frequently
trips over its own internal logic.  But if there is a weak point around
which all else seems insignificant, it's Keanu Reeves.  His pipe cleaner
body and sunken chest don't fit his role as kung-fu master, and when he
strikes a 'manly' pose he just looks silly.  His acting talent is on par
with his other work, which means he says "whoa" and looks blank a lot.
It's
a dangerous thing to base a movie around a non-entity like Reeves -- even
when his character has his (cliched) is-he-dead-or-isn't-he scene, I
couldn't bring myself to care.In short, it's a fun movie, a nice action film posing as a sci-fi film,
but
don't rent it if you're looking for something that will make you think, or
something that you haven't seen before.

******
20 October 1999
10

I went in to see the Matrix knowing nothing about the plot, and I think
that
was good, because the film blew me away. At last, an action movie in which
the plot paves the way for the action.  Imaginative story, great cast
(Keanu
Reeves was perfectly cast for this film.), and ground breaking special
effects make for one thrilling movie. It definately gets my vote as one of
the best films of 1999.

******
3 September 1999
7

This movie featured some of the best special effects ever. The action was
intense and the fighting was superb. Never had I seen anything like it, and
I love what I saw on screen, effects wise.But with the great effects came an inferior storyline. I think they had a
good thing going with this "humans enslaved by computers" plot, but it fell
short because they tried to explain this very complex concept halfway during
the movie in a matter of few minutes, confusing the audience as well as
broken down the pace. It would have been better if they took more time to
explain it, or didn't explain it at all. Either of these would make the plot
a lot easier to follow.Another bad thing would have to be those instances in the movie where they
put some comedic dialogue in, which seemed out of place. I knew it was
supposed to be funny, but I just couldn't laugh, kinda like a good joke told
wrong. Good thing there were too many of those since they were getting
annoying. I also don't like the romance bit a the end where Trinity and Neo.
I mean what gives?! The movie was going along just fine then suddenly love
becomes a subject. It just seemed so fake and forced. My impression of it
was that they decided to put love into the story at the last minute, because
it seemed so out of place. Personally, I didn't like that one
bit.All in all, an enjoyable film, but it's definitely not a masterpiece. Do see
if for the effects though, because it couldn't get any better than
this.

******
4 August 1999
10

If you ever wanted to know, what Zen, Chan, Tao, Dau or however you call
it
wants us to know, watch The Matrix. This film is pure Zen. - Don't try to
understand this. It's as it is.For me, The Matrix is the Film of the decade. Maybe the last real great
masterpiece of art built in this millennium. I've been waiting so long for
this film .. since I've seen Blade Runner when it came into the theatres
for
the first time (o.k., Luc Beson's Leon helped me a lot while
waiting..)

******
4 July 1999
10

What can I say. I really didn't know what this was going to be about when
I
entered the theatre, as I was dragged along by my friends. However once
inside I was shown a film that can only be described with the word "wow".
The premise of the film is one which could work, you don't really know.
And
as for the special effects...Many, many people have a huge problem with this film, but they are just
not
getting into it.You must see this film. I have heard it said that it will change your
life.
I was sceptical of this but it's true. An absolute winner,and worthy of
number 20 on the list of top films10/10

******
4 July 1999
9

I admit it, I went to see The Matrix because the trailer showed an
action-movie with beautifully choreographed action sequences and at least
somewhat interesting idea. Well, the movie did have those action-sequences
plus some neat special effects (and couple bit lousy ones as well) and the
attitude, which saved a few scenes from looking totally
ridiculous.With that treat, The Matrix gives us also a very interesting view of the
world and a good story. Even a brief look into the world would be a crime
for those who haven't seen the movie, but I'll say this. Many of the
people
who have been complaining about the plotholes and problems apparently
haven't really gotten the answer to the question "What is the Matrix?".
The
world and the story are charming, interesting and they actually are quite
possible, from just about any point of view. Tho' frankly I think that
there
was a lot of wasted potential in the story and maybe for the first time in
my life I'd really like to see a sequel where they'd really get into that
potential.Oh, and acting wasn't the best but it most certainly was good enough to
keep
the movie from falling apart. Somehow I get the impression that people are
complaining about Reeves just because they're used to seeing him give a
bad
performance. Personally I think that is pretty much okay as long as he
doesn't have to get too emotional and in The Matrix, he gives perhaps his
best so far.

******
4 July 1999
10

I've been sitting here, reading these comments for a while now (being a
staunch fan of The Matrix, i'm a bit biased, but still...)
The first thing that comes to mind is the overwhelmingly large number of
negative comments, ranging from "Holes in the plot" to "I hate Keanu
Reeves"
to "One big Nokia Advertisement" to "Engineered to appeal to youth, no
real
content"...
I have only one thing to say to these sad, pedantic people:
"Why don't you just sit back and enjoy the movie?"
Sure, the plot has a few holes... but there's a plot, and it is original,
and it holds together much better than many others (Lost in Space or
Armageddon, anyone?)
Who cares if it was engineered (if it was)? Whatever caused it to be
created
has nothing to do with the result...
I mean...
Who failed to grin at Neo's trenchcoat-opening scene before the big lobby
shoot-up?
Who didn't thrill with anticipation and grin with glee as Neo swooped down
behind that HUGE chaingun to deliver some major Agent Ass-whipping?
Who wasn't impressed at the amazing fight scenes? ("Camp?" what planet are
you on?)The bottom line is, The Matrix was an entirely original, well presented,
sci-fi action thriller that everyone should see.
Roll on the sequel, Wachowski brothers...

******
3 July 1999
10

The Matrix is a very confusing movie in the very beginning if you don't
have
any background knowledge. But this is just making the viewer (in this
case,
me) more and more anxious to find out what this is all about. 'Cause with
Lawrence Fishburne doing the character of his life and doing it to its
full
extent, and Keanu Reeves probably doing his best picture ever, this is a
movie full of anxiety and excitement.When you finally figure out what The Matrix really is (and I'm not gonna
tell), the movie really blasts off. With the correct use of special
effects,
great acting, and a breathtaking story, "The Matrix" will surely take it's
place in peoples' mind as one of the best Sci-Fi-Actions in
history.The thing about the story, is that it's so unreal and so Sci-Fi, that the
directors can do whatever the want, and it won't seem unnatural, 'cause
"if"
it really was like the movie, stuff like that could be. And we will never
really know if the world actually is as described in "The
Matrix".You didn't see it yet? Well what the heck are you waiting
for?
(I voted 10 for excellent) 

******
30 June 1999
10

OH MY GOD! Could there be a cooler film ever made in the entirety of this
solar system. This film is 'da bomb'! Nothing could ever beat this
film.How mind expanding, how thrilling. (anyway enough about
me)This film was not only effective in its delivery of the story line but
extremely tension and suspense creating in its camera shots. Technically
this film was superb. The action shots were as clear as crystal. You know
that sometimes, actually quite frequently in action films, the camera is
always cutting the actor out of the frame slightly as the camera is trying
to keep up with the actor? It didn't happen at all in this film. I would
love to know how this flawless effect was achieved, so that i could
interpret this effect into my film.I was very surprised to see Keanu Reeves again, i thought that the moment
he
said that he wanted to devote his time, no longer to film, but to his band
Dogstar i gave up all hope of seeing him on the big screen
again.Well that's what i think of the film 'The Matrix' forgive the childishness
of my language, but i feel very strongly about this film.It brings up the question, "What if this is actually the 'reality' that we
are missing and maybe some of us will wake up in embryonic
casings?'Thanks for reading
   - i'm
a very lonely soul as you can tell.

******
11 June 1999
8

Excellent action adventure has incredible visuals including the shootout
at
the main floor of the office.Decent acting & great direction make it
happen.Rating:****1/2 (out of five)

******
13 May 1999
7

Apart from the last 15 minutes, Matrix is one of the best picture of the
year; it mixes great action sequences and cool dialogues with original and
not obvious considerations about our world and the dangers in it. Although
there are
some unanswered questions it moves quite well in the world of virtual
reality where many films such as "The lawn mower" got lost before. What I
can' t understand is the ending in a
horrible "soap opera-scene" and, in the last sequence.
And in contrast with the meaning of the rest of the movie, the audience is
satisfied like common people of the movie. "Don't worry" we are told "you
don't have to fight to get your freedom! A hero is doing it for
you".

******
6 April 1999
10

Andy and Larry Wachowski, who wrote and directed
this finely written, darkly rendered film, have access.
They have access to superior intelligence, theirs, and
surprisingly, to the Hollywood industry, which usually
scorns anything approximating intelligent film making.
That the plot takes its motive from a tried and true classic
Science Fiction concept (a projection into future reality with attending
amplification of a current fear) should
certainly not be a factor in any critical analysis of this
production.
With THE MATRIX, the Wachowskis have delivered
to us a superior multilevel cornucopia of brain food and enough
audiovisual
sensory power to satisfy a wide range of audience.The realization of the plot is fast moving and with
engrossing detail.  The dialogue is straight, like the scenario, with
sparse
subtext and filled with thought provoking concepts that are liberally
tossed
out in rapid fire, almost too fast.
The payoff, at least for some of us, of course, is the exercise
in
mental gymnastics and the interlaced dialogues of mankind's true meaning
on
Earth.   What is mankind but mind, and can we survive ourselves:?  A good
old song worth singing once more, and with dazzling orchestration.The film ends with a positive turn but leaves the
intelligent viewer with much to reflect upon.   This is not a bad thing,
not
bad at all.


******
4 April 1999
7

At several points during the film, I found myself thinking, "hey, this isn't
so bad", but then I realized that I was getting suckered by the special
effects and martial arts scenes.This movie is pretty average, with potential to be great, had it not ripped
off of every other sci-fi movie there is. It's a great way to entertain
yourself, trying to find all the other movies within the movie. For example,
the idea of human resistance to the machines? Thank you 'Terminator'. There
are also shades of Star Wars, Fire in the Sky, Dark City, Hackers... The
list goes on and on.Keanu Reeves gives a typically wooden performance, but it's really just an
action movie, so it's excusable. Laurence Fishburne excels in a sadly
cliched role as Morpheus, who is essentially Yoda on Pentium.Basically, it's a matter of how you choose to take it. If it's just
gratuitous special effects, and comic book-like plotlines, then it's very
well done. However, in terms of originality, there is something sorely
lacking. This is not a cerebral flick, so don't analyze too much or you'll
hate it. 

******
2 April 1999
10

I went to see this movie expecting a good movie...for the W Brother's
previous effort (Bound) was a great film, so I was expecting no less.  What
I was treated to was a wonderfully thought out and plotted story that
intertwines with reality, the perception of reality, and the lifelong battle
between good and evil.  After walking away from the theatre, reluctantly at
that (I wanted to see it again!), all I could muster was a "Wow!"  Not only
are the special effects a wonder, but all the performances by the actors in
their roles are superb. This is a movie you MUST see right now...and see
MANY MANY times!  The story unravels so well and so perfectly that you'll be
salivating by the end quoting a line straight out of the classic musical
Oliver, "Please Sir, Can I have some more?" 

******
2 April 1999
10

If you like the cyberpunk genre than this is the movie for
you.
It has been a long time sence there has been a good cyberpunk movie.  The
last one being Bladerunner.  The effects combined with some good acting
(Lawerence Fishburne mainly) made this movie one to see over and over.  I
saw it wed. night and then went back on thurs. to catch all the things that
I missed the night before. Big time sequel potential.  What is Zion?  Where
is it?  Who lives there?  And what of all the people still plugged in?
These are just some of the questions that I am sure everyone has.  So if you
big Hollywood hotshots are reading this make the sequel.  If you don't I
will.  I didn't think I was going to enjoy any movies until the new StarWars
was released but I was wrong.  I am in no way comparing this film to the
StarWars movies but it is now one of my favorites of all time.  Thank you
for the chance to speak my mind.  Keep making movies we will Keep watching
them. 

******
29 March 1999
10

Incredible, ground-breaking action sequences make this movie ultra-cool,
but
it's more than just flying bullets. This movie is like anime come to
life.Yes, the Wachowski bros. toss in bits of every myth and fantasy they could
find, yes, they lift bits from dozens of other movies -- from Alien to
Star
Wars to Face/Off -- but they make it all work. Even better, they draw the
best performance from Keanu Reeves since Speed.As sheer movie spectacle goes, it's brilliant.

******
29 March 1999
10

There is nothing more I can say about this amazing movie...GO experience it for yourself!  You will not be disappointed...  it has
already gotten my vote for the best and most ground-breaking sci-fi pic for
the decade... and it will no doubt pioneer a string of similar ones in the
future!  This movie has given me hopes for Sci-fi films in the
future...Even if "Star Wars" doesn't live up to its hype, I am still a happy man this
year! 

******
29 March 1999
9

As much as i dislike Keanu Reeves' acting ability,...as much as the trailer
for this flick told u absolutely nuthin...as much as i had no faith ... i am
now a true believer. this movie was fantastic. it had as much action as
"blade," but with an incredible sci-fi edge that was deep as well as
breathtakingly exciting. the storyline was good and solid and the movie's
pace kept me jumping in my seat. what the hell,...i'm going back to see it
again! 

******
28 March 1999
10

This a great action film. This film is great for people for like action as
well a bit of Sci-Fi. I would recommend definitely seeing this
movie.

******
27 March 1999
9

I goto school at MSU and they had a free screening of The
Matrix
on 3/25 and all I can say is Wow! The sfx were out of this world, the
fight
scenes were the best I've probably ever seen.  The plot kept pace with the
non-stop action by making you question the reality of which you live in.
The Wachowski brothers have completely redefined what great sfx can do for
a
movie.  Keanu puts in a great performance, mainly because they limited the
amount of dialogue he had, as Neo the reluctant leader of a resistance to
free humanity.  The movie immediately grabs you and holds you for the
remainder, with the exception of your mouth dropping open during the mind
blowing action scenes. Once word gets out about this movie, it's going to
make mucho dinero.


******
26 March 1999
10

Had the opportunity to see the sneak preview of this last night. I was
hoping as I walked into the theater that it would be as good as I hoped.
I
was wrong.  It was even better than I had imagined.  Excellent
performances
from both Keanu Reeves and Lawrence Fishburne.  The special effects were
well thought out and the story line fascinating.  A lot of thought had
been
put into the plot.  If you love a good Sci-Fi movie like I do, go see 'The
Matrix'. 

******
24 March 1999
9

This movie had everything.  Great special effects, a strong story, and
even
Keanu Reeves put in a good performance.  I spent the whole movie switching
between shuddering at the view of the future, and saying "Wow, how did
they
do that shot."  Definitely one of the best action movies of the past few
years.

******
22 March 1999
10

I was lucky enough to attend a press screening for The Matrix on March
20th
at Warner Bros.  This movie is awesome!!  Cyper-Sci-Fi at the cutting
edge.
It has action (incredible stuff), humor, suspense, great camera work and
editting, and substance.  It's an excellent, and thought-provoking script,
and the cast is super.  The buzz is that they all had to train for 4
months
for the martial arts/wire work, before the filming even began, and it
really
shows.  Much of what appears to be special FX is not - they really did
what
you just saw (or thought you saw).  This one is a must see - preferably
more
than once since there's so much packed into the film that it's hard to
absorb it all the first time.  But that's sort of what The Matrix is all
about.  Suspend judgment until you've actually been there - as Morpheus
says, "unfortunately no one can tell you what The Matrix is - you have to
experience it for yourself."

******
20 March 1999
10

I was able to see this from a behind the scenes point of view and it is
great!  The visual effects are outstanding and it actually has a story to
top it off.  The Wachowski Brothers do an amazing job of building two worlds
and exploring both without confusing the audience.  Perhaps I am biased, but
I think this will hold us sci-fi fans over till the crowds die down for Star
Wars.  Judge for yourself. 

******
22 July 2015
8
I watched "The matrix (1999)" last night on my phone and it was a good
movie with amazing concept and good visual effects I liked keanu Reeves
(the main hero of this film) after his "John Wick (2014)" film and
thats why I downloaded this movie because of him.And I must say I was not disappointed by this one too. It was also good
but with a bit confusing concept like it is showed as a computer
programming film and then they shows up a prophet who made a prediction
about "the one" and all what is this a computer program or a magic
movie???They must have shown the movie as a technology and program as it is
mainly based on it what is the need of entering this prediction and
all....But despite of this I liked this movie.

******
21 February 2015
6
I was one of the many people who went and saw this at the cinemas when
it first came out. Unlike many of those people, I wasn't particularly
blown away. While I found the ideas in the story interesting, I didn't
find the way they were explored to be especially engaging. I really
liked some of the effects, but thought mainly of how much I would like
to see them used in a better movie. Then I left the theatre with my two
friends, one a homosexual artist, the other a theology student, and
they both talked and talked and talked about the impressive visuals,
philosophical symbolism and deep ideas present in the film. After
around 30 minutes in conversation I was asked for my opinion. Not
wanting to lie, I was frank. "Guys, 90% of that movie was as cliché as
hell (may not have been the exact word I used)" Silence is golden.And cliché as hell is exactly what 90% of this film is. The long
leather jackets date this instantly. The hero is a Jesus allegory and
he is saved by the power of love. A very poorly fleshed out and
unconvincing love at that. There are one liners in the middle of gun
fights, clichéd fighting scenes, and truly boring colours and
characters. This was every action movie you've ever seen, with some
nice new tricks.There are plenty of positives too. After watching Hugo Weaving give
excellent performances in Aussie dramas like Bodyline and The
Interview, it was great to see him given a big role in a Hollywood
blockbuster, and nail it. Man being imprisoned by machines is not a new
idea, but I thought they did a reasonable mash-up of the various
popular apocalyptic futuristic sci-fi stories. The ideas in the film
were interesting, I just didn't think they explored them very well.
Like I said, I didn't hate it, I was just really surprised by the
OMGZ!!!!11!!! reaction it received.My feelings on the movie have mellowed since then, now that I have only
seen it once or twice in the last decade, now that every church group
doesn't have a weekly bible study looking at the philosophy and
spiritual messages in the Matrix, and now that its impact can be fully
measured. The Matrix was innovative, but inoffensive, and
unquestionably, a game changer. It changed the way action films were
made and it changed the way action films were written. Bullet time was
a tremendous innovation that every action film used for a long time
afterward. A technology that was built on and improved to the point
that the effects used here barely look like a big deal. It was possible
to make an intelligent action film with interesting ideas and have
people pay money to watch it. Not that this one is especially endowed
with intelligence. And while I've never heard someone give a testimony
in church starting with (I'm imagining this being read with a deep
southern accent) "I was a sinner, until one day a friend invited me to
a bible study where they used The Matrix to lead me to Jesus..." the
church certainly did get excited that this (admittedly
unintentionally)had give them a mainstream evangelism tool, before they
worked out in about 2007 that this wasn't all that mainstream any more.I encourage anyone to watch this and also Crouching Tiger Hidden
Dragon, two movies that came out within a couple of years of each other
and changed the way action films were made. I really hope younger
audiences will be blown away by this and have a great cinematic viewing
experience, appreciating just how big an impact this had. But I'm not
going to lie, it just didn't do it for me. Feel free to disagree with
me.

******
23 January 2015
10
My review of "The Matrix":"The Matrix" is my very favorite movie. I have watched it more times
than any other movie. In other words it is my all time favorite. My go
to. My jam as the kids say.Why do I like "The Matrix" and its sequels (review at a later date)?
Well, I don't really know. Something about the plot. The story. The
mythology. That being said, I'll just review my favorite parts (for now anyway).
There are several. From the start to the end.The ominous green falling (raining, scrolling) computer code that hints
at something to behold is in store for the eyes as well as the ears.'Trinity' likes 'Neo'. She likes watching him. How long has she been
watching him? We get a possible clue from the transmission date. Then
when 'Morpheus' explains " The Matrix" to 'Neo', he tells 'Neo' that
'you believes it is the year 1999 when in fact it is closer to 2199''Trinity' is scared of agents inside The Matrix at first, but after
'Neo' is freed and he is with her, she isn't anymore because she
believes that he is 'The One'.'The One' is a powerful prophesied savior, Jesus reincarnated a
possible religious under-layer, of mankind from the enslavement by the
artificially intelligent machines being used as an unlimited source of
power.The fight scenes between 'Agent Smith' and 'Neo' are my very favorite
scenes.Now I want to watch it again. Maybe I'll edit this review later.

******
18 December 2014
10
The Matrix is still one of the best movies ever made. it changed
science fiction and added a great philosophical element to the story.
This is what makes this movie much more interesting and they don't
loose this idea not even the fighting scenes. I have seen many times,
not just the great action sequences, but to grab a new perspective in
the plot. Every time I watch I focus in on philosophical side and this
makes you see the movie in a new different way. The sequences looses a
bit of this element, thats why for me this is the best of the 3. The
Matrix movie makes you think...if you are ready! They can only show you
the door...you are the one who have to walk through it!

******
29 November 2014
6
15 years ago, back in the 20th century, the first of so far three
Matrix films was released. It runs for roughly 2 hours and 15 minutes
and was directed by the Washowski brothers Andy and Lana (still Larry
back then). The film stars Keanu Reeves with supporting performances by
Carrie Anne Moss, Laurence Fishburne and Hugo Weaving.I cannot say I didn't enjoy this film as I really liked it to some
extent, but I was not wowed either, maybe because Science-Fiction is
not exactly my favorite genre. My biggest problem was possibly Reeves
in the lead role. I just fail to see him as a guy who brings the
necessary toughness for his character here and in any other action
movie. All this praise about him being the chosen one made me cringe
occasionally. The dialogs about him being so grand were sometimes
downright cheesy and same goes for the explosions coming with the final
kiss between Reeves' and Moss' characters. Another criticism I had was
the Oracle being wrong. She was presented as a know-it-all authority
and in the end her predictions is simply disregarded with the
explanation, Neo has to find his way and then he is the chosen one if
he chooses to be. Oh and the song during the closing credits did not
match my taste at all.What I did like about the film were basically all the supporting
players, especially Fishburne and Moss also. The helper-turned-villain
was creepy in his big scene and Weaving was a revelation. His
antagonist really makes the film and the film was at its best during
the scenes he was in. The camera shot with Weaving before the subway
train runs over him was certainly the best shot of the movie, maybe the
whole trilogy. His parallel on humans being the real virus of the
planet makes you wonder too if he is maybe right. Other than that, I
liked the pill reference from "Alice in Wonderland" early on and the
green code on black ground is certainly memorable and immediately
associated with this film.Finally, I would like to say that I recommend this movie, especially to
Sci-Fi-lovers although they probably have seen it already anyway. It is
not a film I really want to rewatch anytime soon, but it starts okay
and gets better during the second half. I don't think the second and
third Matrix films are much worse, but that is maybe because I don't
consider the first a masterpiece. All three are solid. "The Matrix" won
four technical Academy Awards, all four categories where it was
nominated. It's no "Return of the King", but still an admirable
achievement.

******
11 October 2014
9
This is one of the few films that I have enjoyed more on the second
viewing.The film is so stylish, from the costumes to the music to the action.
The sci-fi is great; very clever. This film is universally considered
to be one of the best action films ever made. While the action in the
film is awesome (masterfully choreographed fight scenes and frantic
shootouts), I really don't like the fact that the action sequences
aren't consistent and equally frequent throughout the whole film. I
remember the first time I watched this, I found myself thinking 'Where
is the action? The shootouts? The bullet-time?' As I said, awesome
action quality, but I really wish that the action was more consistent
throughout the whole film.In conclusion, a stylish and visually impressive sci-fi action film
that still remains impressive and awesome to this day!

******
24 August 2014
8
This is an iconic sci-fi movie starring Keanu Reeves as computer hacker
Thomas Anderson/Neo, who is on a mission with the mysterious Trinity
(Carrie-Anne Moss) and Morpheus (Lawrence Fishbourne) to confront an
artificial cyber-world on Earth called the Matrix, whose malevolent
cyber creators want to conquer the human race and take over the real
world.The movie starts off a little slow, but steadily gains momentum as
Keanu Reeves' character goes on his mission to confront the
cyber-machines, show off his martial arts moves, elude the pursuing
evil agents and take down the Matrix. There are plenty of sophisticated
visual and special effects that really enhance the sci-fi elements of
the film, and some plot twists that made the film more intriguing. In
addition to the sci-fi action, there are also a lot of philosophical
elements and themes in the story, particularly the "free your mind" and
"realize the truth" statements.The artistry of the action, especially the slow-motion scenes showing
Carrie-Anne Moss jumping up in the air and Keanu Reeves dodging bullets
became some of the most iconic cinema moments in history and have been
spoofed or referenced in other films.Some downsides to the movie, though, was that I thought all the action
was a little on the short side (a lot of all-talk) and some of the
acting, particularly that for Reeves, was too wooden and emotionless. I
also thought the incognito-like and stoic performance of Hugo Weaving's
Agent Smith character was overacted.Overall, though, this is a pretty good sci-fi movie and is worth a
watch.Grade B

******
16 August 2014
10
this one of the most creative, if not original movie made till date.
anyone who appreciates akira or other post-humanism classic will love
this movie. featuring the journey of neon(keanu reeves) from a hacker
to a post-human. the complexity of the plot can be estimated from the
fact that Wachowski's had to come up with a graphic novel to make the
cast and the producers to understand and appreciate the movie.
featuring one of the cinematographic effects of it's time, this movie
is a trend-setter. many movies after it including it's own sequel tried
to capture the soul of the movie, but failed bluntly. this movie is a
stand-alone movie, and it's not necessary to watch it's sequels.

******
13 June 2014
10
One of my all time favorite movies EverBy today's standards it probably won't blow your mind although it is
quite a bit to take in & fully understand and you may need to re-watch
it over and over again just to get the gist of what is going on.The actors I actually like but if you don't, then don't worry as they
don't exactly make the movie, the movie makes the movie regardless of
the actors playing the roles.This is easily The Wachowski Brothers greatest movies of their writing
& directorial careers.It's a fantastic film, and if you have not seen it yet due to whatever
reason then i highly recommend that you watch this asap.

******
9 June 2014
8
the matrix stars Keen Reeves in a huge action film that has a lot of
cool special effects the story in this movie might seem complicated
first but it still pushes the plot forward within the first act of the
plot. the story has a lot of interesting and entertaining plot points
and sequences that we will never forget. the characters are somewhat
interesting mostly this movie is sort of like a build up to the next 2
movies. i thought they had a nice screenplay has a nice of use of
action. what makes this movie good is that the special effects has gone
into a lot of detail to match up the thrill that it gives. the slow
motion set pieces were done well and were done at the right time and
rate for each frame of shot. i would recommend this movie into people
that are action fans or thrill seekers.

******
23 May 2014
10
he Matrix is a 1999 American science fiction action film written and
directed by The Wachowski Brothers, starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence
Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, and Joe Pantoliano. It
depicts a dystopian future in which reality as perceived by most humans
is actually a simulated reality called "the Matrix", created by
sentient machines to subdue the human population, while their bodies'
heat and electrical activity are used as an energy source. Computer
programmer "Neo" learns this truth and is drawn into a rebellion
against the machines, which involves other people who have been freed
from the "dream world".The Matrix is known for popularizing a visual effect known as "bullet
time", in which the heightened perception of certain characters is
represented by allowing the action within a shot to progress in slow-
motion while the camera's viewpoint appears to move through the scene
at normal speed. The film is an example of the cyberpunk science
fiction genre.[4] It contains numerous references to philosophical and
religious ideas, and prominently pays homage to works such as Plato's
Allegory of the Cave,[5] Jean Baudrillard's Simulacra and Simulation[6]
and Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.[7] The
Wachowskis' approach to action scenes drew upon their admiration for
Japanese animation[8] and martial arts films, and the film's use of
fight choreographers and wire fu techniques from Hong Kong action
cinema was influential upon subsequent Hollywood action film
productions.The Matrix was first released in the United States on March 31, 1999,
and grossed over $460 million worldwide. It was generally well-received
by critics,[9][10] and won four Academy Awards as well as other
accolades including BAFTA Awards and Saturn Awards. Reviewers praised
The Matrix for its innovative visual effects, cinematography and its
entertainment. The film's premise was both criticized for being
derivative of earlier science fiction works, and praised for being
intriguing. The action also polarized critics, some describing it as
impressive, but others dismissing it as a trite distraction from an
interesting premise.Despite this, the film has since appeared in lists of the greatest
science fiction films,[11][12][13] and in 2012, was added to the
National Film Registry for preservation.[14] The success of the film
led to the release of two feature film sequels, both written and
directed by the Wachowski Brothers, The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix
Revolutions. The Matrix franchise was further expanded through the
production of comic books, video games, and animated short films in
which the Wachowskis were heavily involved

******
20 January 2014
5
The Matrix is foremost a visual effects movie, and its legacy is its
range of revolutionary effects. It is filled with effects that hadn't
been seen before, especially bullet time. The movie is great to look
at. But otherwise, I don't see much of the appeal of The Matrix. The
premise of the film has been praised for its originality, but these
ideas are nothing new. The idea of robots holding power over man has
been used in almost every work of science fiction ever written. The
idea of this world being a dream is nothing new either. The earliest
use of this idea I'm aware of is one of Shakespeare's poems, and I'm
sure even he wasn't the first to use this idea. Nothing happens in the
film. There is no real plot. Neo finds out about the Matrix, leaves it,
Morpheus is kidnapped, and that's it. Nothing happens. No lesson is
learned, and any character development is not believable. Neo is
unconfident, and then suddenly he's tough and ready to handle anything.
No transition happens. I never found myself caring about Neo. Part of
this is because he is played by Keanu Reeves, who is arguably the most
boring actor under the sun, with one facial expression and forced way
of speaking dialogue. Neo is not written as an interesting character.
He has no personality whatsoever, and no virtues to make you respect
him. As I said before, when he does change it comes out of nowhere.
None of the other characters are particularly interesting either.
However, the visual effects and action sequences are good to watch, and
thus I was a bit distracted from the weak story, characters, and
unoriginal ideas. C+

******
24 February 2013
7
One minute I was sitting in front of my PC flying a dragon across a
mist strewn landscape, the next minute I found myself sitting in the
UCI Cinema. Whoa! (I thought). What's happening dude? It seems I was
watching a film called "The Matrix" starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence
Fishburne and the very toothsome Carrie-Anne Moss. Apparently human
experience is just a Virtual Reality created by weird AI beings to lull
us into compliance and enable them to harvest us for our bio-energetic
essence. I thought everyone knew that by now? Well, apparently not
according to this film.In fact there are many, many things that this film believes the
audience does not know. For a start it believes we do not know that AI
machines will take over the world because we are so stupid. It believes
that we know nothing about the history of Western philosophy and even
less about Eastern philosophy. It is not aware of the fact that most of
us have spent hundreds, perhaps thousands, of hours in our lives
discussing the nature of reality both sober and (more frequently) drunk
and that we are intimately familiar with all the arguments involved.
The film does not know that we can recognise a cliché-ridden script
when we hear one. (Sample: "My way or the highway." Someone is pulling
our virtual legs here surely?)This film does not know how restless a
modern audience can get waiting for the action to start nor has it ever
heard of the Lizard's First Law of the Cinema i.e. First make your film
then cut at least thirty minutes out of it because it is just annoying
dreck that has been put in to pad out the film because all film
directors are too chicken to make films that run 90 minutes these days,
pal! Suddenly I hear Keanu's voice in my mind  "I know Kung Fu!" I
find myself in a sparse Japanese Hall. Keanu makes several hypnotic
gestures culminating in a flick of the wrist beckoning me to fight him
if I dare. I realise that he is imitating Bruce Lee's postures and damn
me he nearly succeeds. I step swiftly aside and Laurence Fishburne
steps in to take my place. Even though my Real Life mind knows Keanu
and Larry don't know anything about Kung Fu, my VR mind believes they
are old hands at it. As a long time fan of HK Action films I find this
sequence absolutely exhilarating. What Keanu and Larry lack in terms of
authenticity is easily hidden by the choreography, editing and special
effects.Then, in the blink of an eye, I'm cowering behind a pillar as a dozen
men and one woman with an armoury of guns blast hell out of the
marble-clad walls, floors and ceilings of a huge office lobby.
Remarkably a thousand wall tiles die for every person killed but in due
course and in suitable John Woo style, the good guys win only to go on
to the next action-packed scene.Taking the action scenes and the effects alone this is one of the best
films I have seen for some time. When they really let rip with the
guns, bullets, machines, kung-fu and upside-down, sideways and
backwards balletics I felt a real adrenaline rush of joy of the kind
denied to all those po-faced critics in the broadsheets who have to
seek meaning and purpose and socially responsible messages in modern
films.But then suddenly I was back in plotland with all the lack of
logicality you'd expect from one of the worse technobabble episodes of
the least good Star Trek franchise show scrapped from the bottom of the
barrel when they are running out of money and ideas at the end of a
long run. Bought back down to reality with a bang.Forget the plot. Go for the action and the effects. And one more thing
 Existenz has this film beat hands down. The two films have very
similar questions to ask about the nature of reality. Existenz treats
you as though you are an intelligent human being and never ever lets
you guess which reality is real. The Matrix assumes you are just a dumb
puppy that only wants to be amused for the moment.

******
17 October 2012
10
Apart from 'The Lord of the Rings' and 'The Dark Knight' trilogy, 'The
Matrix' is perhaps the greatest cinematic achievement since its release
year, 1999. I've seen the Matrix a few times and mainly seen the action dozens of
times. Today, I re-watched the movie and was more than blown away by
the movie. The Matrix is just groundbreaking and jaw dropping in pretty
much every aspect. The acting is fantastic, even Keanue Reeves did a
splendid job in this movie, the visual effects are revolutionary, the
plot behind it is so unique and nothing but masterfully directed,
written in amazing style with brilliant dialogue and action, containing
great stunt work. A mix of CGI with practical effects certainly makes
this movie all the more realistic and groundbreakingThe Matrix is about a young man who experiences that he lives in two
different worlds; one he is a computer hacker, the other he is an
employee at a computer software company. He is taken by a mysterious
man named Morpheus and is shown the truth about humanity and that
something called the 'matrix' is concealing the truth away from
ordinary citizens. The world, in the present year of 2099, is covered
in ruins after incidents that happened long before. This movie is
pretty much all about Neo becoming the One to fulfill the prophecy and
becoming the One.The plot in this movie can be so confusing at times if you do not pay
attention, much like Inception. When the comparison does come, I always
will say that the Matrix is a more amazing piece of art and is actually
regarded as amazing by some and the most overrated movie by others.
Calling this the most overrated movie ever is like calling Avatar the
greatest. It doesn't work like that. No movie in my Top 10 of all time do I have a single issue with expect
this movie, which turns out to be a minor issue under great directing,
writing, acting, characters, story and action as well as breathtaking
visuals. That is the music which could've been done better. That is
easily forgotten when an action scene I've seen dozens of times before
still intensifies me so all is forgiven. 'The Matrix' is easily one of the most memorable movies of all time and
those who trash this movie should go back to watching Batman and Robin.
Truly one of the best movies ever made: Groundbreaking, Epic, Visually
Stunning, Masterpiece. Belongs in my Top 10 list. A+#10- Toy Story 2 #9- Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade #8- Aliens #7-
Godfather #6- Jurassic Park #5- Toy Story 3 #4- Star Wars IV #3- The
Matrix #2- Terminator 2 #1- Lord of the Rings trilogy

******
20 February 2012
9
Overwhelming and spectacular first part from a trilogy with some of the
best action scenes ever made . This excitingly original film is full of
thrills , cutting-edge visuals, stylist innovations , fights , tension
, suspense and groundbreaking races , but also several commercial
elements , including computer-simulated violence . This is a dynamic,
fast-paced and amusing movie , though overlong . It's an enjoyable , if
somewhat light-headed piece of escapism with state-of-art special
effects and straightforward screenplay . Big-budgeted film by the great
producer Joel Silver led to break into the booming
Sci-Fi/adventure/fantasy market plenty of inventiveness and imagination
. Full of action, it's complemented by rousing scenes , breathtaking
fights and struggles are spotlights . It deals with Neo (Keanu Reeves)
¨who is thought to be the chosen one¨ a computer hacker learns from
mysterious rebels about the true nature of his reality and his role in
the war against its controllers . One night, a mysterious woman named
Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss)seeks him out and introduces him to that
faceless character he has been waiting for : Morpheus (Laurence
Fishburne) who carries him to Oracle (Gloria Foster) . Then Neo is
advised by the Oracle about his future . As Neo learns about Matrix ,
he aware all life on Earth may be nothing more than an elaborate
masquerade created by a malevolent cyber-intelligence and he results to
be the chosen one . The rebel leaders led by Morpheus estimate that
they have little time until 250,000 probes discover Zion and destroy it
and its inhabitants. During this, Neo has to decide how he can save
Trinity , Morpheus and partners from a dark fate and taking on Agent
Smith (Hugo Weaving) and his hoodlums . Meanwhile , a traitor betrays
the group and the events get worse . It is a dark time for the world in
this first adventure as the epic war between man and machine reaches a
thundering crescendo : The group desperately battle to hold back the
marauding Sentinel invasion from overtaking them . Neo, Morpheus and
Trinity race against time to get their purports . While the human city
of Zion is preparing for the oncoming war with the machines with very
little chances of survival.This is an action-packed , booming following with some of the best
action scenes ever filmed , plenty of bounds and leaps over buildings ,
including awesome visual effects by John Gaeta . This thrilling movie
contains impressive fights , chills , breathtaking designs , dense
philosophy and many other things . From the beginning to the end the
comic-book action-packed and extreme violence is continued and it's
fast movement ; for that reason the picture is pretty amusing ;
furthermore contains lots of spectacular combats in mart arts style
staged by Yue Woo Ping who also made ¨Kill Bill¨ and ¨Crouching tiger,
hidden dragon¨ . Contrived beyond belief with spectacular struggles
that play like video games , but slickly calculated to please 2000s
audiences . Moving and pulsing musical score by Don Davis . Magnificent
, glamorous production design by Owen Paterson . Colorful and
imaginative cinematography by Bill Pope . The motion picture is
stunningly written , produced and directed by Larry and Andy
Wachowski-The Wachowski Brothers . It' s followed by ¨Matrix Reload¨
and ¨Matrix revolutions¨ with similar artistic team and cast adding
Anthony Zerbe , Harry Lennix, Gina Torres , Harold Perrineau, Jada
Pinkett Smith, Nora Gaye , among others in which the the city of Zion ,
the last outpost of humanity , is defended by valiant warriors against
the massive invasion of the machines to save the humanity as Neo ,
Morpheus and Trinity fight to end the war at another front while also
opposing the invasion on the hidden underground refuge .

******
23 September 2011
8
I loved that part, my favorite in the movie. Fascinating flick. And to
think that when I tried to watch it first, months ago, I gave up after
a few minutes. But now I know better so I gave it another chance. This
has to be one of the most philosophical flicks ever been shot, yet one
which may lead you to confusion with its slick F/X, superb settings &
action packed scenes. The acting is appropriate by all involved.
Fishburne and Weaving great in their parts and Reeves playing
adequately low key his confused, doubtful, Neo. Moss great also, but I
had trouble putting together her kick ass Amazon and her vulnerable,
sensible girl. Now, Neo may be the hero here, the one around whom this
whole universe turns, but from a tragic, pathetic POV there's one
character more fascinating than him.Cypher is to me The Matrix most interesting character. He belongs to an
exclusive club, which also includes JCS's Judas, Watchmen's Rorschach &
Dark City's Shreber. He's Everyman, Average Joe. While Neo, Jesus,
John, Jon, are stereotypes--good guys doing good--he's the one with the
burden of having to make the hard choices--which may well be illusory
after all. In JCS Judas follows Jesus until he realizes that Jesus has
gone too far and then sets to stop him, even betraying him. It's only
then that he realizes he is just a tool in God's hands. He never had
the free will he thought he had. Rorschach fools himself when thinking
that he chooses to die for ethical reasons when it's really for the
horrors of the amorality in which he grew up. Cypher knows better; he
knows that there's no such thing as free will (as many expert
behaviorists believe too) but only instinctive reactions resulting from
our environment, from genetic or cultural factors or from chemical
reactions in our brains, etc. He takes Morpheus' teachings & turns them
around. That's best shown in his scene with Smith, when the states:
"who cares if the flavor of this steak is just a creation of the
Matrix! All what I care about is having a tasty steak in my mouth".
After all, it was Morpheus who said that there's no difference between
a dream lasting a lifetime and reality. So it's all about searching for
the pleasurable. Understandably so, Cypher hates him because he took
him out of his state of ignorant bliss, his dream, and waked him up to
an unpleasant reality. Horrible as it seems, if Morpheus had liberated
all humans he'd have to face the wrath of many, or most, because we
don't search for pure, freewill--filled reality in life but for simple
happiness--even if everybody got their own interpretation for what than
means, in many cases a twisted one--and that's what the Matrix was
giving them, or something near. Neo, Morpheus may be the top guys here
but it's Cypher the one reaching the heights of a truly Shakespearean
hero.TM has a marvelous kaleidoscopic nature in it, as it can be matched
with several constructs of human--or Western--culture. Everyone is
aware of its Christian overtones, with humans having been banished to
the Purgatory of their plastic cocoons after our original sin of
destroying our natural environment--as Smith explains to M. Or it could
be just Plato's cave. It may be also considered as a metaphorical
attack on capitalism. Marx described it once as an economic system
where all personal relations between its antagonist parts
disappear--which wasn't even the case of slavery, feudalism. The
capitalist exploits the worker just like any commodity, machine--he
wrote. Smith says as much to M.: "we don't give a crap about you
people; we just need your energy". Or you may prefer to see instead in
it the old Zarathustrian theme of our search for our own inner
Superman. Or perhaps it's just about rites of passage. Then again,
maybe it's just the 7th art expressing our angst of seeing modern
technology taking an increasingly dominant role in our
lives--especially virtual simulations of reality.Greatly entertaining, whatever you may say about his numerous
flaws--can you say 2nd Law of Thermodynamics? Still, the shocker for me
was Neo waking up covered in plugs & tubes. That image gave me
nightmares for days. No more space and anyway others have already
delved on cinematography, FX and settings, all uber superb (but why
everyone has gone green pale in their flicks lately?).In all, 8.0, mostly because I'm not quite sure it will stand the test
of time. Action sequences date fast.

******
4 May 2011
9
Science Fiction wasn't an extremely well-known genre in the 90's. Yes,
there was films such as 'Blade Runner' and 'Star Wars', but nothing
else that had set a standard. Right when you thought there was no
specialty, 'The Matrix' miraculously fixed that problem...The Matrix is undeniably a brilliant film, as well as an outstanding
experience. Yes, this film has some sort of flaws, but forget that, it
has a creative and highly addictive world of it's own. I literally got
sucked into this film till the very end. The script, performances,
direction, and visual effects are memorable.A script (in my opinion), is the most important part of an amazing
'sci- fi' film. This film's script is jarring and exuberant. The whole
idea of 'Matrix' is creative and delusional. This word does come from
Mathematics, but this is a whole new meaning. Finely written
storytelling at it's very best.Keanu Reeves is NOT an actor I admire. I find him dull and blank most
of the time. This film, however, proves me wrong. He, as the main
character, is damn good. He's slick, tall, and handsome. Laurence
Fishburne, as Morpheus, is brilliant. He demonstrates a better
understanding of 'Matrix' and is serious, expressionless, and jubilant.
The rest of the cast including Moss and Weaving produce fine
performances.The Wachowski brothers do an outstanding job at directing this film.
Relating Japanese style towards an American film. The Hollywood FHX in
this film is ground-breaking and highly praise. Different camera angles
are also used to shoot this film.It may seem surprising, but this film was ONLY acclaimed for it's
visual effects. It deserved more, but didn't get any! Otherwise, this
visual effects of this film are the highlight and the most related to
Hollywood's biggest achievements. The different 'kung-fu' fights are so
well done, that you have a great time with them. These effects also
made this film look slick and extremely cool.Overall, you shouldn't be missing 'The Matrix' if you are fond of this
genre. It exemplifies a perfect well-done thriller. An entertaining
ride from start to finish, this is one of my favorite films.

******
9 April 2011
9
To enjoy THE MATRIX you must buy into the premise of the movie, that we
are all living in a "dream world". The real world consists of a machine
dominated existence.The human race is "hatched" into a dead end
existence. I won't mention too much of the plot.The acting of Lawrence Fishborne
is astonishing in convincing the audience that NEO (Keanu Reeves)is the
"one" to SAVE THE WORLD.I have seen the movie over 25 times. The movie holds the viewer in
suspense to the very end. The final 15 minutes are exhilarating
utilizing a cleverly created pounding sound track and acute film
editing.The script is wonderfully written to cling the viewer's eyes to the
screen with well developed lead characters to root for.The special effects utilized to "elevated the actors"in the action
sequences have been endlessly copied since the 1999 film.Wow what a great movie. Most sci-fi buffs will love this movie. One of
the top five movies I have ever seen. Hope you will enjoy.

******
23 July 2010
10
I am writing this review 11 years after I first walked into my local
cinema and sat down to watch a film I knew nothing about called The
Matrix. I had seen little advertising except for the poster at the
cinema and I did not know what to expect. 1 minute into the film and I
was awestruck. I am not sure exactly what i had just seen. Visually it
was the most unique thing Id ever seen, and only 3 minutes had passed.
Then we move onto story telling, we are faced with Alice in Wonderland
and down the rabbit hole references. I knew then that this was going to
be interesting. Slowly Layers were peeled away until boom it hits you
right in the face, it actually draws your breath and moves you in such
a way that I had never experienced watching a film thus the Matrix is
revealed. Some amazing action scenes follow including the lobby scene
which for me is still the best action sequence scene I've ever seen.
Just when you think it can't get any better we have the ending.......
NO..... the hairs stand up on the back of your neck and you are
instantly touched by... something. By the time i had walked out of the
cinema and got about 100 yards down the road I turned around. I went
straight back and watched the next showing. I watched the film 8 times
at the cinema over the next few weeks, demanding friends come and see
it. Now I have probably seen the film many times since ( 100 ). I know
there are flaws but then when you see a flaw you can also somehow
justify it. As a stand alone film it is the best Sci Fi movie of all
time. Fans wanted more and 2 more films arrived. I enjoyed both films
although not on the same level as the firstFor the summer of 99 The Matrix rocked my world along with the Love
Parade festival in Berlin. Thus 99 will always be my favourite year.
The Matrix 10/10

******
19 November 2009
10
I remember seeing this film for the first time on bootleg when I was
five years old. I couldn't believe my eyes!!! The visual effects still
don't look phony 'til this very day! And when I watched it again when I
was older and obviously more mature, I love the story line. It made the
movie a million times better! The reason I was blown away again when I
watched it was because of the storyline itself. It just comes together
so well. About this perception of reality and the human race living in
an artificial world made sense for all the action-packed sequences to
cross boundaries. If you like the movie for the action, that's fine.
but if you want a full blown movie, here it is. The Y2K of film. The
movie makes sense story wise, emotionally, and even if you judge the
action to look phony, it'll all make sense when you see it. Perfect
film. And Keanu Reeves isn't too shabby either, and Lawrence
Fishburne's performance is very underrated. Trust me on this. You will
love this movie. I know it's my favorite movie.

******
11 March 2009
9
"I know what you're thinking, 'cause right now I'm thinking the same
thing. Actually, I've been thinking it ever since I got here: Why oh
why didn't I take the blue pill?" - CypherIf there was one sci-fi movie that defined the 90's, it would have to
"The Matrix," arriving late in the game in the year of 1999. With
school-shootings and "Y2K" bugs baring down on the masses, it was only
appropriate that a sleeper-hit such as this one came along to truly
capture and define the end of the century. Whether it was fate or
chance, the brothers Wachowski managed to create a film that not only
captured the imaginations of its audience as well as played off its
fears, but a film that -- ten years later -- holds up and marks a high
point in American film-making. Simultaneously matching and surpassing
the groundbreaking special effects and outlandish action-sequences of
1991's "Terminator 2: Judgment Day," "The Matrix" set a precedent that
no modern film has yet to live up to, despite the mixed feelings that
stem from its two sequels.Imagine everything you know is not real. A fabrication, as a matter of
fact. Your whole life, you've been asleep, dreaming that you're living
out your rote, uneventful existence. You constantly search for answers,
for the meaning of your own existence, to no avail. That is, until
somebody opens your eyes, waking you to a new reality, a new world. A
world where you are an unknowing slave to technology (subtle social
commentary, eh?) and the world you thought you knew is nothing more
than a computer program fed to you while you sleep. Such is the premise
of "The Matrix." Keanu Reeves plays Thomas Andersen, a computer hacker
who lives at his computer and could care less to socialize, let alone
get up and go to work each day. He lives in cyberspace under the
codename "Neo," not realizing that he himself is being pursued. Soon,
he is extracted from the fabricated world  The Matrix  and faces a
harsh reality through the assistance of a philosophical leader by the
name of "Morpheus" (Laurence Fishburne) and a fellow hacker, "Trinity"
(Carrie-Anne Moss), where he comes to learn his purpose is
astronomical, Christ-like, even. He does battle against the agents 
led by the sinister Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving) -- who keep The Matrix
in check, all in an effort to salvage what remains of the free-thinking
human race.Notorious for its mind-bending special effects as much as it is for its
philosophical and religious undertones, "The Matrix" is a film that, as
it nears its tenth anniversary, remains relevant today. With repeated
viewings, the film still looks fresh and feels brand new. Despite the
fact that the "Man vs. Machine" theme present has been done to death in
other films, it is tackled by the script in a way that is both
unconventional and definitive. Its impact was immediately felt on
pop-culture, and still resonates today. It's more than just loud,
shoot-em-up fun with stunning visuals. It's also a timeless portrait of
where society currently sits and where its unknown future is heading.
Social commentary aside, though, it's still incredible entertainment. A
well-rounded, well-made film that will stretch the imagination for
years and whose impact should hold up as a benchmark for future
classics to live up to.

******
4 March 2009
10
I just have to review this movie, even if it is a decade after it was
made (I loved it that much)!One thing I don't see often is reference to the part of the film that
deals with faith (mostly, about The Oracle). I find this part of the
movie particularly nicely done. A great answer to the question: "What
form would human faith take in a world in which humans are less than
slaves to thinking machines?" I think this also has to do with the fact
that the best piece of acting is given by Laurence Fishburne, who
depicts quite well a "man of faith".The whole disquisition about what is reality and Neo waking up to learn
that his whole life has just been an induced fantasy are just too juicy
not to love!Some acting in it is not first rate, but the rest of the film
(everybody knows that the visual effects set a breaking point in cinema
history) carries it greatly.It is difficult to believe that this jewel came from the same minds
that gave us the enormously disappointing Matrix II and III.

******
5 November 2008
9
Beginning this review I was writing the film's title and ended up with
"The Mainstream" (100% accident) which pretty much sums up the premise
of The Matrix franchise. The Matrix is good in the fact that it takes
complex science-fiction from previous 1990s films that didn't quite
meet mainstream audiences (Dark City, 12 Monkeys) and merges it with
the spectacular CGI effects of an action film. As an action film The
Matrix is incredibly successful and deserves great recognition as one
of the best films of the 1990s, or the past two decades for that
matter. However I do feel let down by the fact that I felt cheated by
the story when they didn't try to further flesh out the world it took
place in.My main problem with the film falls on the fact that, as an avid sci-fi
fan, I had already seen most of the concepts The Matrix presented in
previous films (go back to the two I listed above). The religious spin
on things however does really make it interesting, kind of like a
science-fiction version of some religious document, but a human being
having special abilities and saving a captive human population from a
controlling force which had everyone living in a false reality had
already been used in Dark City back in 1996. This, among other things,
is one of the reasons I don't give The Matrix a perfect score of 10/10.As a sci-fi film it was very good, regardless of how many of the
elements that it was reusing from other films, but I often felt like
the production team couldn't decide on whether or not they wanted an
action picture, or a thought stimulating sci-fi epic. By the end
however The Matrix does succeed in balancing these two things very
nicely. The CGI deserved its Academy Award, because it really is
amazing some of the things they were able to pull off.The acting in this film was grade-A, and one of the strongest aspects
of the film's production, and there was only ONE performance that
failed to catch my attentionsadly this performance (my opinion) came
from the star of the film: Keanu Reeves. Reeves has had his moments
throughout his career, don't get me wrong, back in the late 1980s (most
will remember the Bill & Ted films) he was a rather likable young
actor, even in his lesser known performances; he seemed very honest and
sincere in his performances. A change came about when he announced he
was going to "take acting more seriously". The result, in my mind, was
horrific! He comes across now as someone with very little emotion, and
just doesn't seem really human.I had the same problem with Keanu in the action movie, Speed, which
followed the Die Hard franchise, but unlike Bruce Willis, I couldn't
connect, or really care about Reeves in this film (similar feeling in
Bram Stoker's Dracula, but he wasn't TOO bad in that film), which was
certainly on par with the Die Hard films in production and story. Same
problem is present in The Matrix. Reeves is trying way too hard to seem
serious, and dramatic, and in the end comes across as being artificial,
and dull. If that was the director's intention, I don't really care,
because I felt this was a character the audience should have been able
to relate to and care about, but that's just my opinion and you don't
have to agree with me (just giving an honest view from my perspective).Okay, I've given my criticisms, but now I have to say what was really
good about The Matrix, and there are a lot of good aspects of this film
which is why it deserves my high rating (and a spot in my DVD
collection). The action is well-done, and truly is an eye opener, and
as I previously stated the performances are mostly strong. Laurence
Fishburne (Morpheus) and Hugo Weaving (Agent Smith) are very good in
their respective roles, and both (as most people will say) are embraced
as engaging characters in the mind of the audience, while Reeves was
more of a vehicle to channel elaborate action sequences (the highlight,
in most people's opinion, of the film). Also the Wachowski Brother's
film is simply beautiful to look at, from the all CGI sequences to the
live sets. The sequels, which go purely into action, prove that this
film could have been a much worse (I don't hate the sequels, they just
are not really sci-fi; just action films).This film really does have all it needs to work as a successful film,
especially in the mainstream Hollywood of this day and age. It would
have been braver for the filmmakers to try and expand, and concentrate
on the complex science-fiction aspects, instead of the action, but then
it wouldn't have been the box-office success it was. I would defend
them no matter what, but when you go against the powers if mainstream
and the production companies and end up with a good film you'll always
have me backing up your filmof course I will be critical if the plot
and direction is bad, but at least I'll give you a positive word for
daring to be different.I can only hope that The Matrix can help get moviegoers into the lesser
known art-house science-fiction stories that inspired it, because it's
a shame that our modern audiences can't seem to appreciate things that
don't fuse with action or comedy, because I don't feel science-fiction
was ever really intended to be a genre simply designed to create
exciting action sequences.The Matrix was a great film, deserving its mainstream applause: Solid
9/10 stars

******
22 February 2008
6
i'm not sure what the big deal is about this movie.i mean,it borrows
heavily from other sources,such as the bible and Star Wars,among
others.the gist of the story is that the world people see around them
is isn't real.it's actually a construct made by machines.Humanity is
actually enslaved by the machines.but there is one man who can free
humanity.that man may be a hacker who goes by the name Neo.Neo is
portrayed by Keanu Reeves.also playing prominent roles are Carrie Ann
Moss and Laurence Fishburne.but in my mind,it is Hugo weaving who
steals the show as the enigmatic agent Smith.i will admit the movie has
some great special effects and some spectacular fight scenes.but some
of the moves in the fights are really silly and are not what i would
call practical.also,a lot of the movie is slow moving,and the
characters don't behave in logical ways.still,the movie does have its
good moments.there are some genuine moments of high tension.this is the
first of three movie in The Matrix franchise.for me,the first movie in
the series is a 6/10

******
22 January 2006
6
'The Matrix' is a film about the concept of reality and identity. The
lead character is transformed into an alternate world through the help
of Morpheus, and he learns to battle the machines. This is a very deep
film, and it is one that will make you think about life and reality.
It's also a film that can be watched multiple times. One of the best
areas of this film is the use of special effects in the battle scenes
where the cameras rotate fully around the action. This is the highlight
of the film, and without that, it would be almost like any other
science-fiction/action movie. In my opinion, the story and characters
are a little bit weak, but the concept and the special effects make
this movie well-worth a watch.

******
8 November 2005
10
What is the matrix? This is the question we are constantly asking
ourselves, as we are absorbed into the web of the film written and
directed by the talented Wachowski brothers, Lary and Andy, the
creative minds behind the less popular but critically acclaimed 1996
film, Bound as well as the Matrix Trilogy. The Matrix, the first film
in the trilogy is about Birth and as we delve deeper into Neo's (Keanu
Reeves, Speed, Constantine, Something's Gotta Give) world, the answer
to the nagging question unfolds in a slow sprawling way, much like the
eerie text of the Matrix code. One doesn't need to be an expert in the
field of computer science to understand the techno babble and jargon
used by the 'hackers'; a strong background in religion and mythology
could be more useful. Throughout the film, the directors rely heavily
on religious motifs for places, (the Nebuchadnezzar, Morpheus' ship,
which refers to a Bible passage) names, (Neo  referring to The One in
Greek mythology or The Saviour Jesus Christ, Trinity, in reference to
the Holy Trinity and Morpheus, the god of dreaming and heaven) and
events (Neo being killed by the machine-world 'agents' only to be
resurrected seventy two seconds later by Trinity, similar to Jesus
Christ).All the way through the film, imaginative choices have been made by
cinematographer Bill Pope, and art director, Hugh Bateup, which subtly
add to the cold harsh world of the Matrix and in contrast, the 'real
world'. All the scenes that are set in The Matrix are bathed in a
sickly green glow, echoing the text of the Matrix code. Along with
this, Neo is always inundated with a harsh, white light, making him
appear helpless and week before he is 'unplugged' or enlighten by
Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburn). Juxtaposed with this is the metallic blue
light that shrouds all the scenes shot in the 'real world'. This
contrast isn't noticeable overall, but it delicately and ingeniously
gives the audience the feeling that something is slightly off plum
within the world of the Matrix and makes for an intensely dramatic and
thoroughly thrilling experience. The original score by Composer, Don
Davis is spine chilling and foreboding. Relying heavily on brass and
percussion for creepy effects, the score, coupled with alternative
heavy metal songs, add a manic feel to the film, which accurately
depicts the state of mind Neo is in.As well as the impressive casting, Carrie-Anne Moss who completes the
threesome as Trinity as well as the rebels nemesis, Agent Smith, played
by Australia's Hugo Weaving, whose mechanic voice and excellent
expressions are a highlight, the special effects and martial arts are
the films greatest achievements. With the legendary Woo-ping Yuen, the
master behind such films as Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and Kill
Bill, Vol.2, he brings his speciality of the famous Chinese 'wire-work'
to the film, enabling Neo to fly over the city streets and partake in
some of the fastest and well choreographed scenes ever seen on film.
Coupled with the martial arts are the revolutionary Special Effects,
specifically 'Bullet Time' invented by Special Effects wizard John
Gaeta which is a technique developed for The Matrix, using a series of
still cameras to capture a three-dimensional image of an action whereby
the passage of time is slowed down so that an observer can see
individual bullets flying throughout the scene at a conceivable rate,
usually with their trails made visible. It is often used to create a
dramatic effect, and some variations involve rotating the camera view
around the slowed-down scene. It was previously referred to by some as
"time slice photography" but changed for the Matrix due to the scene
where Neo dodges the 'agents' bullets for a breathtaking spectacle.
It's sure to get audiences clapping in their seats. This film caters
for all audiences, the sci-fi fanatics drooling over their computer
screens, the interested movie buff, or the ordinary person looking to
be blown away by a dazzling concept of an Orwellian future. For those
not up to the challenge of an exhausting mental thriller, waiting for
the DVD will be equally rewarding, enabling you to watch the film
several times to fully grasp the layers the Wachowski brothers have
pain-stakingly crafted into the film. The Matrix has been a long time
in the making, but it has been well worth the wait and is the type of
film that needs to be made to alert people to the brilliance film can
still produce. As Agent Smith says, 'That is the sound of
inevitability.'

******
22 May 2005
8
This is a cult movie. It includes many interesting techniques,
spectacular effects, a good story that is built up with perfect pacing.
The sense of mystery and suspense pervades the first half movie and is
what is gives it its unique character. The chase and action scenes are
spectacular and interesting. The characters give just enough details
with their dialogue in order for the viewer to get a glimpse of what is
going on, while maintaining a sense of intrigue. The dialogue and
acting leaves something to be desired, however.If you like good, dark sci-fi action films, then this is for you. The
pseudophilosophical exchanges might put you off.

******
4 April 2005
8
I've never been a fan of Sci-Fi movies. It just isn't my kind of film
and yet, I'm glad to make an exception for this movie. Somehow "The
Matrix" was able to change my opinion about the genre. So what is it
that makes this movie so good? Well, one thing is the story.The humans believe they live in a normal world in 1999, but in reality
it is 200 years later. The world as we know it, was destroyed in a war
between robots and humans. While the humans believed they could stop
the robots by cutting off their power supply, the robots outsmarted
them and made slaves of the humans, who produce more than enough energy
to sustain the robot society. But to keep the humans happy and unaware
of their actual situation, the robots have created a virtual world, a
false version of 20th-century life. This virtual world is called 'the
Matrix'. Neo has always been looking for the truth behind the Matrix
and one day he gets the opportunity to find it out, thanks to Morpheus.
Morpheus is one of the few humans who once managed to escape and he has
been searching for the 'chosen one', the only human who will be capable
of defeating the robots. He believes Neo is the one he has always been
looking for...Next to the story, it is the special effects that have made this movie
legendary. I guess everybody already knows this, but this was the first
movie in which they have used the super slow-motion, called bullet
time. Of course this was a revelation at the time, but even after all
these years it's incredibly nice to watch. And there are more
interesting things to be found. The makers have used computer animation
to its full extend and have done that in an outstanding way. But next
to the well developed story and the amazing special effects, there are
still the actors. Sometimes, you might almost forget about them, but
they still play an important role in this movie and have done that in a
very good way.As a conclusion I just want to say that this is probably the very best
Sci-Fi movie ever. It's full of action, it has a good story, a lot of
interesting special effects and some nice acting. What could you
possibly want more from a movie? I reward it with an 8/10. I'm sure
this will remain a classic, even in 20 years time.

******
12 December 2004
9
The Matrix is one of the very best science fiction films of all time.
Like George Lucas did with Star Wars, Andy and Larry Wachowski create a
fascinating world with a different history. Everybody thinks the year
is 1999. But in the real world it is closer to 2099 and the world is a
very different place. Our reliance on machines has backfired and they
have taken over, harvesting humans and connecting them to a system
called the matrix, where humans live and think like it is modern day.
The story follows of a group of rebels who escaped the matrix who find
who they think is their savior, Neo (Keanu Reeves). What follows is an
action-packed thrill ride, with an excellent story, and a perfect
performance by Hugo Weaving, who plays Agent Smith, a computer program
assigned to stop any human resistance.The action scenes completely blow you away. With old-school wire fu,
they create a classic sparring session between Neo and Morpheus
(Laurence Fishburne). And with extraordinary special effects, they
crafted one of the best action sequences ever made in the lobby
shootout. Tons of bullets, bodies, and shattered walls fill the screen
while a great soundtrack blasts across the room. It has to be seen.While the two sequels were very good, they didn't come close to living
up to the first installment, that has set a new standard for
science-fiction that will take a heck of a lot to reach. 8/10

******
19 April 2003
6

I saw this movie last night on German TV, and there must be something to it,
because after I went to bed I dreamt I myself was caught in the Matrix,
trying to convince Morpheus that an unexpected intruder to his ship was
benign and ending up as Morpheus's secretary. Possibly it is the dreamlike
quality of the movie that makes it a classic. There are some scenes visually
compelling, if not really beautiful (e.g. the green insect penetrating Neo's
body). But the excessive martial arts sequences were at first annoying and
then, as they became more frequent, I was just bored by them (just as in
Charlie's Angels, if this comparison is politically correct). Obviously
martial arts are fashionable, but I never cared for Bruce Lee either. In
general, The Matrix forgot about its lofty aspirations as it drew towards
its end, turning into a plain action movie with endless special effects,
fireworks, shooting, and all, even with a helicopter. But what about the
very idea of the Matrix? Isn't it just nonsense? After all, if machines took
control of the world, using human beings as "batteries," these machines
could easily put the poor humans into a perpetual coma, leaving them without
consciousness, a state in which they would even spend less energy to sustain
themselves, making the whole thing more efficient for the machines. Such
human beings would not need any surrogate reality; the Matrix, which is not
only a complex box of tricks, but also a waste of energy, would become
obsolete.

******
7 March 2003
8

I gave this movie a solid 8, but I definitely have seen plenty of movies
that I have enjoyed more over the years.  What gets me is all the people who
act like this movie is so original.  What is original about it?  It is
basically a combination of the Terminator movies and any number of virtual
reality movies that were released prior to this one including Johnny
Mnemonic also starring Reeves.  Heck, it wasn't even the first movie to use
bullet time as the movie Blade was the first time I had seen that done in a
movie, granted on a much smaller scale.  Also, I think it was seen in a Korn
music video as well before this movie ever came into being.  So this movie
just borrows, for the most part, from a bunch of different movies and other
entertainment.  Still it is good, though the parts that are the best take
place in the matrix.  Some of the real world scenes are quite frankly
boring.  The second time I watched this one I was basically thinking, "Come
on, capture Morpheus already so we can get to the good part of the flick". 
The action at the end of this movie, more than makes up for the many dry
spells in the flick.  Reeves and Fishburne are good as well, though I could
have done without some of their talking scenes and their fight wasn't
anything special either.  Like I said, I loved the movie when they were in
the matrix and not as much when they weren't.  I hear the third installment
will be entirely set in the real world too, so I don't have high hopes for
it.  Carrie Ann Moss wasn't anything special in this either...if it wasn't
for this movie who would ever of heard of her?  Let's face it, you could
have put anyone in that role and they could have performed just as well are
better.  She isn't very good looking either.  All in all it is worth
checking out cause of the great action at the end, and because Hugo Weaving
is great as the villain.

******
20 January 2003
6

At first I loved this film, but now, after half a dozen viewings realise I
was suckered by the effects. The acting is poor and Keanu is totally
unconvincing in his macho martial arts pose which causes him to look like
a
complete prat in one of the films unintentionally funniest moments. The
story has too many religious undertones for my comfort and lacks
plausibility.
However a spectacular and moody film which in the right circumstances is
highly entertaining and watchable.
I would suggest as more worthy alternatives Blade Runner or Twelve
Monkeys.


******
26 October 2002
6

In his column "In The Realm of the Senseless," about movies that made no
sense, Joe Queenan mentioned "The Conversation" as a film that you enjoy
even if you can't understand what it is about.  I would definitely add
"The
Matrix" to that list.  Exactly how and why everything is happening is
never
entirely clear, but it is exciting and compelling enough to keep your
interest.

******
30 April 2002
9

Pros: Memorable special effects, Characters and Stunts
Cons: Character development lacking, ending, Alice referencescyberpunk has a new addition and it is a brilliant new film by the
warchowski brothers. The Matrix owns a kindred spirit to "Dark City" as it
has basically the same premise and cinematography is preety much the same.
Acting is crisp and believable and there are a few corny dialogues. The
stunts are incredible in this movie and so are the amazing special
effectsPremise: Morpheus finds the one who will lead all human kind into a battle
with the machines and free us allthe matrix was awarded with four academy awards though all in the technical
sideGrade: 9/10 (A sci-fi classic)

******
22 July 2000
9
Why do people see the concepts of the story as metaphoric?  How are they
any
less than real?  Sure, a few visual and plot devices were used to
represent
a society being operated by a totalitarian remote, and that may constitute
symbolism, but the principles are at work in the world around us every
minute of every day.  I am slightly concerned that this movie leads people
to believe it was more a sci-fi story with a social commentary, than it
was
a simple observation of society and how it actually works.The whole post-apocalyptic messiah story is more than a bit tired, it's on
life support, but that detracted little from the movie for me - Keanu
needs
to be the chosen one, aw, let him pretend.Where the movie disappointed was in its degeneration from a thoughtful and
interesting and visually spiffy romp through the concerns of the oppressed
masses into a string of Starsky and Hutch chase scenes climaxing in a hail
of gunfire.Is a yank movie somehow incomplete without that seemingly requisite "only
the NRA has the final solution to save the universe and that answer is
limitless ammo" message?  Chucky "God loves guns" Heston must have creamed
his jeans when he saw all the big bang-bangs.If you can forgive the individualist-supremacy hammer that the end of the
movie hits you in the face with, it's great.Fortunately, I can suspend that disbelief just because of the quality of
the
story, concepts, observations and execution of everything =up to= the
denouement.  Watch it for the story.


******
28 January 2000
6

THE MATRIX is overrated quite a lot, I think. Visually strong the movie
really cannot
stun me with such a poor story line. The real contents seem to be:
impressing the viewer
be revealing new facts about the amazing Matrix-world. But after having
caught in which
way the Matrix works it is just boring seeing Laurence Fishburne
explaining
and explaining
what has already been explained. His never ending monologues nearly ruin
the
whole movie.
It is not that interesting hearing ´´it is like this´´ and ´´it works like
that´´ for half an
hour. The rating of 8.4 points in the IMDB is too high, I think. I rated
the
Matrix 6 points.  

******
21 November 1999
10

"Forget about the screenplay, it's all about the effects", they said.When I went to see the film at an exclusive midnight premiere I didn't
know
anything about the film. 144 minutes later I decided to never go to an
exclusive midnight premiere again. The punishment was the knowledge that I
would not be able to see the film again until its official screening one
full week later. Somehow I survived.The story is mind-blowing and discusses a lot of essential questions about
reality, everyday life, who each one of us is and who decided it that way.The protagonist, Thomas Andersen, not really satisfied with his existence
as
an average employee, finally gets the contact he had always been seeking.
A
group of ,matrix-resistant' individuals share their knowledge about the
,matrix' with him and furthermore tell him that he was chosen to put an
end
to that fake reality.The exposition of the story and the characters is great. The film starts
within the very first second but still leaves the viewer unsure about what
,really' is going on. Is Thomas A. Anderson only dreaming? Or is he really
,Neo'? Is ,Neo' more than just a night-life name? Is ,Neo' Thomas A.
Andersons true identity? The way the story unfolds is thrilling and the
turning points come with good timing. One of two weak points in the story
comes when the writers-directors must get Neo to confront his antagonist.
Trinity at that point has to play the poor part of bringing on the delay.
The way we got to know her throughout the film makes it anything but
convincing that she would start long talks at that rather delicate moment.Whoever wants to criticize Keanu Reeves for his acting probably has a
problem with actors that don't show that they are acting while they are
acting. He's not in flirtation with the audience or the critics while he's
performing. He's too busy doing a great and extremely convincing job. I
have
never been a fan or something so please consider me as neutral. Lawrence
Fishburne is the most charismatic Morpheus I could ever imagine, and the
rest of the cast is the perfect choice also. Carrie-Anne Moss handles the
extremes between the cool ,matrix-trinity' and the sensitive
,reality-trinity' impressively well. Stock music rarely works in movies
but
when Rage Against The Machine hit it after Neo flies away in the end,
something just works.I don't see ,The Matrix' as bringing on  easy answers. Every answer is
followed by a question, and ,the one' in the end only becomes ,the one'
because he chose himself to become ,the one'. Nothing more, nothing less.
While the matrix is all clean and colorful, reality is dirty and cold. The
parts of the dialogue who deal with essential questions (like "what is the
matrix") are brilliantly written and convincing -apart from that other
weak
point that irritates me, concerning the machines and how they got the
power.
I suggest you go and check that for yourself ...It's surprising to see deep-thought-subjects being discussed in a
,mainstream' Hollywood movie -especially at that length. Since the
Wachowski
Brothers had troubles to get the project financed, it might not be that
,mainstream' anyway. In fact, at least the outlook of the film is
,avant-garde'. Ground-breaking camera-technology and breathtaking
choreography of the fighting scenes team up with innovative direction.
Neo's
,wake-up' scene in the incubator, the showdown or ,the white room' won't
be
forgotten so fast.Since the first human being was walking on the planet, there have been
speculations about what is real, if or how that might be proven, and what
kind of consequences that might have. Therefore not too many themes could
be
more classical than the one of ,The Matrix'. But it's not only classical,
to
some it might be scary: it invites us to see parallels in our world,
igniting questions about who -based on what kind of legitimacy- makes all
the rules and how much power each of us has in that game.The choice of the theme and the way the theme is presented is what truly
makes this film the first film of the next millennium. It already has
entered movie history.

******
18 August 1999
10

With this movie the Wachowski brothers pushed me over the edge of my
imagination. During the nineties many films have been called a revolution
within the industry but The Matrix is just that.Our hero Neo is perfectly played by Keanu Reeves in, what I consider to be
his best performance till this day. And Laurence Fishburne is just as
excellent as Morpheus.The visual effects are awesome without removing focus from a very good plot.
And a good plot is a rarity in effect films like this one.I surely hope a sequel is on the way. Primarily because it is obvious
because of the way the film ends but also because I want more of
this.It's great.

******
19 May 1999
10

This is simply one of the best movies I've ever seen! Keanu Reeves usually
acts and looks the same in all his movies but this time he really fits the
character, and even better than he did in "Johnny Mnemonic".
The visual effects are incredible but in no way done just for the sake of
having visual effects, they're all completely justified and the story
wouldn't have been the same without them.
And the story is probably the only truly original story for a movie I've
seen in a long time (just when I thought I couldn't be surprised), it had
me
in suspense from beginning to end.
If I was to choose one movie that I was forced to see every day for the
rest
of my life, "The Matrix" would be it. It really kicks butt in every way,
go
see it now!!!
(Star Wars episode 1 will have a hard time beating this
movie!)

******
17 May 1999
10

For the first time in years, a movie made me sleepless the entire night.
The
matrix. I know, it's just a film... or do I?

******
11 May 1999
7

Sometimes when a movie makes you  think, I miss the factor and send a
negative review across.Does the movie make you think? Absolutely. It is a vary challenging
feature.
As a matter of fact, this is a good test for your movie understanding
ability. It is not quite as confusing and plotless as "Dark City," but a
lot
more high tech then "Johnny Mnemonic." It is about the same as in the
sense
of lots happening on scene at one time as "Blade", but does not make you
dizzy.I Hesitate to recommend the film, however, and in reality, the day I
screened the film my star rating was lower than it is today. In other
words,
my thumb would be jolted down on Friday, April 2, 1999, but today, it is
pointed up, with a crutch helping it from plummeting down again.Why did I change my mind to disliking "The Matrix" to liking it? Well, I
thought about it, and BINGO, I thought about it. This movie is very
tricky.
Hard to follow? Certainly, if you get up to go to the bathroom for five
minutes, you'll be lost for all the rest. Movies that threaten for you to
pay attention are something to see. Making a thought-provoking film isn't
easy, you know.Irrelevant "The Matrix" is. I won't even get into explaining the film's
plot, for it would be a mix-up,
only to turn you off. There isn't  a real story here, but there is a base
to
the movie. See the movie and you'll understand.I liked the dazzling visual effects, which were about as good as "Dark
City." The filmmakers do suffer from showing the audience a little too
much
on screen instead of letting us imagine things a bit, but they also make
up
for that by putting in sub-plots and bizarre camera effects.Also to my liking is the performance by Fishburne and Pantoliano, hard to
explain why, however. Laurence Fishburne acts that he is once again on a
horror ride in the "Event Horizon," Joe Pantoliano provides some comic
relief when the film gets too deep. Keanu Reeves is a bit too lost in his
dialog and trying to understand what's going on to do much damage on
screen."The Matrix" is not for anyone other than hard core science fiction movie
fans. It is simply another addition to the mind numbing array of special
effects movies that don't carry along a story with themselves. This is not
a
great movie, and when I think about it, I have a hard time calling it
"good." But for an addition to this failing genre, it's a turning point.

******
9 May 1999
10

So finally another movie about the wonders of computers. Add that up with
super special effects of the next millenium, combat and shut-em-up scenes
Woo-Style, and a plot that i'm still trying to work out - and you've got a
nice matrix of what is my choice for the best of intertainment in 1999.
Keanu Reeves is doing pretty well in this, his baffled look is appropriate
for the character of NEO (a.k.a. The ONE). After 45 min. you may find the
movie slightly boring, and wonder where all the promised action is, but
the
last hour will pull you hair back if you're a cyberaction
fan.
I have only 4 words to say to you right now:
GO SEE THIS MOVIE !...it is not real - that's just the way it is...

******
13 February 2015
6
I think it may have been because I was so young when I first saw it.
Just recently I saw the movie again. What an amazing story and moving
meaning. That movie teaches you so much about life and the meaning of
it. That life isn't as bad as most people make it seem. That an
innocent man can impact so many lives with his innocence. The meaning
of the movie to me is that everyone needs to have a better outlook on
life. That we need to appreciate more of the little things and not let
the big things hold us back. That truly although life may throw us
trials and tribulations like a box of chocolates but that we have to
just bite into it and get through it even if we don't like it. That we
all need to hold true to our values and not sink into a place that
feels like there's no hope... I just love this movie. And anyone who
hasn't seen it or who thinks that don't like it I seriously suggest
seeing it or seeing it again.

******
30 August 2014
10
Truly one of the best science fiction movies ever, not to mention the
special effects. Matrix has revolutionized the way we see movies, with
excellent handling cameras, it's really is a classic and a cult movie.Since the movie started you can notice a very intelligent and well
written scrip, but the soonest the special effects, the sound mixing,
the music starts you immediately notice the excellent movie it is, and
if anyone doubt it the 4 Oscars it wins in the technical area confirms
what i'm mentioning, together with all of the movies that use the same
technical that Matrix!If you still don't watch the movie, what are you waiting for?

******
9 October 2012
10
Where do I begin with this review of my favorite all time
philosophical, action, sci-fi movie of all time? This movie is a
amazingly awesome! Let me give a few pointers...1) THE MUSIC-How can the music is any other movie be as good as this
movie's?2) The Action-Holy crap this movie has awesome action scenes in it! One
during Neo's fight with Smith in the subway, Neo saving Morpheus and
then Trinity from the helicopter crash? How can anything top this?3) The Philosophical elements-I'm not one to focus heavily on
philosophy, but this movie has it sprinkled in the storyline, and they
don't get shoved down our throats. Like, Morpheus saying "And I'll show
you how far the rabbit hole really goes." The Matrix itself is also a
type of philosophical element. Even when Neo becomes the one, that's
from Plato's "The Allegory of the Cave" from The Republic.4) Bullet Time-an extraordinary technique and it works perfectly in the
movie! Neo dodging the Agent's bullets and the fight in the hotel
lobby! I can't really continue on this review any longer, I have this to
say...I dare anyone to find and watch a movie that can possibly top
this movie, heck, this whole trilogy. I freaking dare anyone to this!

******
6 March 2011
5
I guess everyone has once seen a church service young American
denominations-style. It's like female choir is singing, someone's
playing synth or guitar, and a priest in front of them shouts "God is
love", and "Jesus loves you." The lambs shout back these things and all
other stuff which is familiar to everyone who has heard something of
Christianity."The Matrix" has very much in common with such ceremonies. An action
movie with an original aesthetics and slow motion can be interesting to
watch, just like listening to gospels is sometimes an unalloyed
pleasure. But the problem about "The Matrix" is its annoying sermon.
With an incredible solemnity and wannabe-prophetical intonation we're
fed with an alloy of the most common places philosophy knows. The
famous "There is no spoon" phrase - Neo's pupils widen, now he
understands everything. A stupid watcher is supposed here to make two
or three thinking operations and feel satisfacted for being smart. The
intention is simple - or I give too much credit for Wachowskis, maybe
this half- philosophy is really the ultimate one for them.It's possible to associate solipsism and platonism with a modern
virtual reality concept cleverly and softly. Wachowskis, however, do it
boldly and pushily. Even the spoon quote is not enough, they also use
messiah figure, i.e. Neo himself. Now it's a serious business. Neo's
gonna show people what they don't wanna see (quote-unquote). The film
starts to fail in amusement at once because Neo hogs the story's
blanket; however, film's grandiloquence increases to an unbelievable
level.Thus, "The Matrix" is an example of movie which is trying to seem what
it's not. Wachowskis try to insert their simple story of people in
stylish black coats into as many classical contexts as possible: here
we have Nebuchdenazzar, and messiah, and also Morpheus, - whilst the
ideological concept is more like of a high school student's essay on a
subject of philosophy, compiled in one night before deadline. That's
what is the word "tedious" exists.Nevertheless, it occurred to be the rightest thing. (By the way,
effectiveness of such model is well-known: in literature it's exploited
by Richard Bach and Paolo Coelho, to name a few.) More than ten years
have passed, and still millions of Wachowskis' lambs singing and
dancing, and repeating whatever the siblings say. "There is no spoon,"
chant Wachowskis. "There is no spoon," echoes the congregation
deliriously.

******
8 August 2009
10
I've seen the movie when it first came out 10 years ago, and in the
meantime I've come to completely re-evaluate it.At first i saw it as a great sci-fi story with a twist of some
"interesting idea"... there was something eerie about it but I couldn't
quite put my finger on it... the whole idea of the "false reality" of
"the matrix" there was something there that doesn't fit the traditional
"conspiracy theory".After also seeing V for Vendetta it got me thinking even more... that
"The matrix" is not what it seems at first glance.The matrix is a vehicle, it's a brilliant vehicle, a wolf in disguise,
a Trojan horse! The Wachowski brothers do something brilliant... they
have an idea that they want to get out, but this idea is very hard to
sell. If they had made it true to it's self the movie would have been a
giant flop, it would have reached only a fraction of the targeted
audience (which is all). So they took this idea and wrapped it up in a
sci-fi story, in an action packed block-buster that appeals to the
masses. It's a brilliant scam that worked! They managed to do exactly
what they tried, they planted the idea into your head, the seed of
doubt even if you have no idea it's there, even if you have no idea
what the hell I'm talking about or why I'm cryptic about it, it's
there.Hats off to the Wachowski brothers for pulling this off in style! Ah,
and yes... what am I talking about ? I'm talking about that nasty
feeling in the back of your mind that something's wrong... that
splinter in your brain that just won't go away... That feeling you got
left with after seeing the movie that it wasn't just about computers
and AI's but about something else also... something you're familiar
with but just can't put your finger on...Both the red pill and the blue pill are out there for the taking, but
now your choice is a bit less naive than it would have been before
seeing this movie... the choice is yours...

******
28 August 2008
2
This is a very good movie. Visually, The Matrix is pretty much at the
top of the Sci-Fi genre. The plot is solid, Keanu Reeves doesn't suck,
and it's a unique film.But, why is it overrated? Just because I said the acting doesn't suck
does not mean that it's particularly good. This movie is good, but it's
certainly not in the top 100 films of all time. There are much better
movies out there that rely on clever story telling, have better actors,
and there are some with equally as cool visuals. If you know what to
look for, the plot is pretty predictable. All of the foreshadowing in
this movie insults your intelligence rather than adding to the tension.
Also, the slow motion sequences become stupid after watching the movie
a couple of times, and they are in an abundance.I used to be a fan of this movie, but once I saw Dark City I realized
how much room for improvement there truly was.

******
18 August 2006
9
I've put off writing this review for ages because I feel as though I
could never do a classic like The Matrix (1999) justice. I happily
panned Matrix: Revolutions as a disappointing end to a fantastic
trilogy, but I dare not touch the original film. There is no way I
could capture its innovative brilliance on paper, because the film is a
visual experience. So I'll just throw out as much rambling,
semi-coherent praise as I can muster.I imagine that when the Wachowski brothers approached the film studio
with a storyline that went something like this: "a hacker in the near
future discovers that the universe and the world he is living in is
nothing more than a dream--and elaborate computer programme called the
Matrix controlled by machines as a means to dominate humanity" all they
got were raised eyebrows from executives. Yet, somehow, they must have
convinced them to finance the project, because The Matrix is 65 million
dollar production, sparing no expense at glorious visual effects and
science fiction elements.It puts forward totalitarian ideas like many dystopian films, but it
adds more depth to them, more philosophy and more relevant notions.
What's more is that it approaches and treats these in a much more
effective way. It is difficult to pinpoint exactly how, but most of its
content is communicated through dialogue (Morpheus telling Neo about
the Matrix and what it means) and stunning visuals. Just like
Terminator, it tells us that A.I. will grow stronger and eventually
spiral into thinking minds of its own, leading to the demise of
mankind. Unlike Terminator however, The Matrix tells us the machines
are hiding this fact, creating an illusion. We are living in a dream
world. That is enough to make you question a few things.The Matrix catalyzed a whole new style of film-making and it is
referenced to, spoofed and homaged in literally hundreds of films just
a couple of years after its release in 1999. Even children's animations
like Shrek features Matrix segments (Fiona rising in the air
Trinity-style, battling forest rangers). So it is safe to say this film
has had considerable influence on contemporary films.As the trilogy drags on, the novelty of the fresh science fiction
mixture and special effects has worn off; the ideas are no longer as
riveting; the story itself becomes too widely-scoped to grasp and with
an opening films of such flair, it is setting itself up for
disappointment. But The Matrix alone is a near-perfect film.9 out of 10

******
22 September 2005
10
There was not a single film that I can remember that was like this back
in '99 and to say that the experience was totally awesome is an
understatement.Before I saw this, I usually thought that sci-fi movies were dull. I
was one of the few people who thought Blade Runner felt like an
eternity to sit through. This was exciting from start to finish and if
you have ridiculed Keanu Reeves in the past, the performance he gives
here makes up for it in spades.The genius of the movie is of course that we don't know what is real or
not and that include people. The men in suits and sunglasses are shown
as ghost-like creatures who control what the commoners' environment but
you are not really sure if they themselves are not controlled by
another entity. The character of Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) seems to
know all the answers but even his wisdom is questioned by his complete
blind faith in Neo as the chosen one.There is of course obstruction from opposing sides in the form of
Cypher (Joe Pantoliano) who thinks that it is better being in a
make-believe world than to endure the rather meager existence the
rebels are leading and he has a point.Millions of dollars were probably spent making this movie but except at
the end all the money were well spent. The shoot-out is exciting up to
a point but it is dragged out a little too long. That is such a minor
quibble, though that you can easily gloss over it. So how can you top
such a movie. My opinion is you can't as witnessed by the rather
inferior sequels but there was a time when this all felt new and you
should applaud the Wachowski Bros. for that and not gag because you
just saw a spoof on the Simpsons for the 1 millionth time last night.

******
11 June 2005
10
Very simple, because it is a magnificent, well created, defined and
interesting history that takes to many to admire her. But now I do ask,
do you believe that The Matrix is real, that is to say, the concept
that we are dominated by softwares and that? if you responded that yes,
I tell you: YOU ARE A DAMNED DEGENERATE OF SH*T!, DON'T CONTINUE READING THIS it is necessary to see that the nerds ruins everything, and to think
that one sees this type of movies at the beginning to see the scenes of
fights and shootings, but while more you see it, it begins you in
interesting the history, but to the long one you annoying restitution
and it is left. And if not, a friend of the secondary that was obsessed
with this movie that tired already, saw until it contaminated me
temporarily the fever when they used for the first time "Matrix
Reloaded" in 2003, but he had a limit and I got tired of that, like to
reject the trilogy during some time, but now I recapture with idea of
giving his importance to certain philosophy (although in the VG already
ridiculous the prophecies of Morpheus), the fights (in Revolutions that
seemed a fight it Goku-Vegeta of Dragon Ball Z) and the movie that it
lifted more expectations was "Matrix Reloaded", where they became more
fictitious, but even so, good. when I said that the nerds ruined everything, it is true, the example
of the fans of Matrix and of Star Wars is an annoying point, because
always one goes to those stupid nerds that almost prostitute to get
some souvenir or article with respect to this type of movies. In spite of the nerds and fanatic who's in any aspect ruin tremendous
movies like this one, my vote for "Matrix" is of 9/10. P.S. NERDS GO TO HELL, DEGENERATES GO TO AN ASYLUM, FU**ING FREAKS!!

******
11 April 2005
9
When I watched this film at theater in 1999, I really liked it. I used
to liked it until I watched the "Dark City" in 2001 at TV. And I
realized that story of Matrix the crap stolen from Dark City. Dark City
was written, produced and directed by Alex Proyas in 1998. Both of the
films have an illusion world. Both have "SAVIOR". At both of the films
most of the people aware of what was happening. At both films savior
doesn't believe that he has got powers. AND at the and of those films
the "SAVIOR" saves the human being.Everybody loves Matrix because nobody is aware of Dark City. Watch Dark
City and see how Wachowski brothers stole a story.

******
15 January 2005
10
This remains my number one favorite movie of all time. The 2nd one was
alright. 3rd one nearly made me cry, what a horrible way to end this
series. What made this movie great was the same reason that made A
Clorkwork Orange great, it was very original and entertaining. That
scene where Neo does the crazy bend back to dodge the bullets thing was
purely amazing. Very unique storyline what with turning humans to
batteries. That was just brilliant. I dare to even say that I liked the
acting. Keanu Reeves and Laurance Fishburne(not sure if that's spelled
right) were what clearly made this movie what it is. I still can't tell
if Morpheous is a homosexual.

******
15 January 2005
10
Back when people feared the Y2k virus and when people thought the world
were to end, and others didn't. This came out and put us on the edge of
our seats! Yes one of the best movies ever made, and one of the most
intriguing sci-fi's to be made, a movie that made Keanu Reeves big. The
story is set in modern days, and now, someone finds out the reality
they are in is fake, they are but bites in a computer. Wow, an original
concept, and a great cast of characters, and not to mention the great
special effects! The battle scenes and the unforgettable gun fights,
and lets not forget the memorable and very recognizable scene with the
slowdowns and Trinity doing that poise. And the bullets the way they
move in slow motion, it started it all. And I like especially the part
when Neo asked for guns, lots and lots of guns, they all appeared at
once in a flash! It's great, recommended to all who like fast paced
action and sci-fi. Watch it. You know you want to.

******
16 March 2004
10
This film is the best film ever made. Yes the Lord of the rings trilogy
was better than the Matrix trilogy but as a single film this is the
best ever made.There are virtually no flaws in this film. Keanu Reeves who is usually
a very shallow and superficial actor is surprisingly well casted. Joe
Pantoliano is good, Carrie Ann Moss is also delivering the best acting
of her carrier. Lawrence Fishbourne does a good job as the super
believer Morpheus. However the real star of the film and still (I
think) the best villain of all time, Hugo Weaving. He has already
become a cult actor simply for his performance in this film.This is actually two films in one. On one side it is a deep
philosophical movie and one the other side it is a kick-ass action
movie with the best effects of its time.All in all ********** out of **********

******
6 October 2003
10

After having watched this movie 19 times I'm still thrilled by this movie,
it's properbly the best movie ever! If you haven't seen it yet then hurry.
Avoid even the smallest spoilers bc it's 100 times better if you don't
know
ANYTHING about it...
Enjoy

******
20 November 2001
10

The Matrix does a better than excellent job of illustrating spiritual
truths
(not religious truths, necessarily, although some religious philosophies
are
illustrated therein, i.e., Luke 1:37 "For with God nothing shall be
impossible".)  The crew on-board the Nebuchadnezzar can be considered a
spiritual team.  The agents can be considered demons, the neophyte's own
demons which he must overcome in order to transcend the ordinary 3-D
reality.  The agents present to the neophyte his fears, doubts, and
disbeliefs which he must fight against and win in order to fully know
himself.Additionally, the movie depicts planetary control and the majority of
human
beings' unconsciousness in that regard ("Billions of people just walking
around oblivious.")The members of the spiritual team act as teachers, as well as the agents.
Both teams are considered teachers.  Agent Smith spills a lot of truths.
One team operates from a positive viewpoint and the other from a negative
viewpoint.Overall, the movie will open one's eyes, if one is looking for the
opening.
"Seek and you will find."  Otherwise, the movie is just another science
fiction flick filled with formula (thrills, chills, trauma, drama, and
theatrics).

******
16 September 2001
7
 The heroes are much like the protagonists of STAR WARS. The villains are much like STAR TREK's borg. The wardrobe is a rip-off of T2 and BLADE, for the heroes, and MIB for the
bad guys. The gunfights are Hong-Kong inspired. So are the fight
scenes. Those are only a few of the influences I've spotted. This movie did not reinvent the wheel, but it's still gives the movie goer
quite an eyeful and does what it's supposed to, which is to entertain. All
the stories have been told, it's all in the "how" you tell the story. This
one had a cool style and some innovative special effects. I won't say this
is my favorite movie ever, but it was worth watching.

******
1 June 2000
10

Finally a science fiction film that cannot be immediately dismissed as
either unreal or impossible. How can anyone say that this isn't exactly the
way that reality is? To try and disprove this view of reality would be like
trying to disprove the existence of God. Maybe he's there, maybe he isn't,
but no one can possibly prove it either way. It works the same way for The
Matrix. It is possible that everything that we see is fed into our minds by
machines and that we would never know it. Probably the only remotely convincing argument the other way would be that
if that were true, why would the machines give us a movie like this to
watch? It would expose them! But then again, maybe they just want to get us
thinking, maybe to see how we'll react to the possibility of their
existence. Maybe they are getting ready to present themselves to us. Robot
rapture! Who can say that the Wachowski brothers are not messengers?This is by far the best science fiction film that I have ever seen. Aside
from the relatively plausible story, every other element of the film was
spectacular! The special effects (which, in my opinion, usually take more
away from a film than they add) were awesome, the fight scenes were
incredibly intense, and the pace of the film itself was breathtaking. Every
hole is covered up brilliantly, even down to a definition of deja-vu and a
possible reason for why so many different foods taste like chicken. These
little ties to reality are one of the best ways that this film was able to
come off so realistically. The Matrix is absolutely not to be missed. Even people who don't like
science fiction or even action films will more than likely enjoy this film.
It is well presented, it is not unnecessarily excessive, and it presents the
most innovative camera work in years. It has something for everyone, and
will become a science fiction classic without a doubt.


******
6 May 2015
10
Firstly the brilliance of this film cannot be justified within a
review, every aspect is fantastic and well thought out. I watched this
for the first time as a purely action film and I was not disappointed
the visuals are spectacular and still are even today 16 years later
which is utterly astounding. An example of a film from the same time
frame would be The Mummy, with a larger budget and a similar focus
placed on visuals it does not come anywhere close to the same standard
as The Matrix. The story is equally fantastic, it is beautifully complex and
engrossing. The basis of the story is simple enough that the world is
controlled by machines and effectively the world that every one lives
in is purely a computer generated fantasy designed to give the illusion
of living. There are however layers upon layers to the story which you
realise the more you watch it. You are never bored and there is always
some aspect that is new each time you watch it. There are also
different connotations within the film to various philosophies, beliefs
and religions, some easily noticeable such as Neo being a Messiah
figure and a saviour to all that follow him (like Jesus). Others are
maybe not as obvious but the philosophy of "thinking for one self" is
also heavily featured in the film, as is the degree of choice we
possess in a modern world, therefore posing the question are we truly
free? These factors make the film more and more interesting every time,
spotting various little factors you may miss. Keanu Reeves as the main character Thomas Anderson/Neo may not be the
best performance in the film but his portrayal is exactly what the film
required and therefore is brilliant. All the other characters are all
also fantastic with stand out performances from Laurence Fishburne and
Hugo Weaving as Morpheus and Agent Smith. Fishburne conveys his
characters beliefs and wisdom with such ease it is almost soothing, as
you are also convinced yourself of his beliefs watching it. Hugo
Weaving on the other hand manages to produce a sadistic evil character
without really using emotions or changing his voice, instead he uses an
almost monotonous tone and his emotions are translated through the use
of language which Hugo conveys masterfully. The battle internally with
his relationship with both machine and human is effectively shown
through the characters language and actions. All the actors/actresses
produced great performances and it I could i would praise them all,
other notable mentions of underrated performances are for Joe
Pantoliano and Carrie-Anne Moss as Trinity and Cypher, both totally
different but equally convincing in there roles. Overall from my point of view I don't feel there is a more complete
film, The Wachowskis have made a film that transcends across most
genres making it a film for everyone. I don't think there ever will be
another original film ever that poses so many questions and gets you
thinking more than The Matrix. You can almost see yourself as at least
one of the characters in the film and have an ability to relate. The
most important factor to me however is the fact that it leaves the
mystery of whether it is real or not, as you could never technically
know. I like the fact is makes you question yourself as to whether this
could be possible, obviously some sci-fi films are totally ridiculous
and cannot happen but this forever will pose the question.Simply put, to me this film is the greatest ever made and possibly will
be for some time to come.

******
14 February 2015
7
Lots of well choreographed fight scenes but they do sometimes look a
bit jerky (almost like they are robots). Could of done with more
explanation on why the machine puts all the humans in the matrix, it
was a bit like the creators said 'why should we have them in the
matrix?' 'I dunno, let's just make it so they don't know the whole
truth so we don't have to come up with why'. It could of done with more
explanation on why the things were happening. It also depended a bit
too much on unexplainable stuff like why two of them came alive. Some
of the cgi isn't that great but it's not too bad. Very original ideas
though, lots of cool moments and cool monsters. The ending was a bit
rushed though and didn't make much sense.

******
22 September 2010
3
A lot of people like The Matrix because they think it's deep. In fact
its apparent deepness is its primary selling point, and is what has
turned it into a blockbuster and trendsetter. Just ponder over this,
because there's a contradiction here. Whenever has Hollywood hit the
jackpot by being profound, either in a philosophical or religious way?
Something strange is going on here. A lot of the mystery disappears
after we identify exactly what belief the Wachowski brothers are
purveying here. It's Scientology. They are telling us that the power of
the mind is able to free us from the matrix of the senses. The
scientologists are anxious to free themselves and become thetans 
omnipresent and omni-powerful minds.Now, the success of The Matrix tells me just one thing, that people
have become closet scientologists. They don't grapple with the issue of
"appearance and reality" in the way scientologists do, but the core
belief is there. They might call themselves an atheist, or an
evolutionist ("We only accept what science tells us"), but that's only
an excuse for not really sorting out what they really believe in. So,
along comes a film called The Matrix and it hits a chord. They can
identify with Neo because they are aware of a thing called corporate
media manipulating reality for them. They are also brought up on
computer games, and so it's not too big a leap to imagine a virtual
world completely replacing the real one. I can see how closet
scientologists can completely immerse themselves in the plight of Neo
and his Christ-like struggle to free humanity from the clutches on the
senses and become omni-powerful minds (in the parlance of the film,
taking them to promised city of Zion).In that sense, the film is profound, in that it resonates with popular
belief so accurately. There is just enough spattering of science and
philosophy to take them in. People want to believe in science, but they
don't want to be troubled like Einstein was ("Does God play dice?").
The most convincing part of the film is where Morpheus demonstrates to
Neo how virtual reality is created. This, and the recurring motif of
"freeing the mind" are the only authentic components of the film. The
rest is a conventional Hollywood action flick, and one that is totally
at odds with the underlining philosophy. Considering the struggle with
agent Smith, and the frequent popping in and out of virtual reality,
nothing makes sense. This is where real confusion starts to parade as
profundity.I always thought that it was only intellectuals who mistook confusion
for profundity, but apparently normal cinema-goers do too. Maybe
intellectuals and Hollywood action flick fans have something in common
after all. They both worship the rational mind. And when rationality
delivers a mess, the mess itself is seen as something profoundly
rational. Maybe that's the crowing achievement of the Wachowski
brothers. They have composed the "Being and Time" for the masses. But
Heidegger's philosophical book was mostly pretentious garbage, and so
is the Matrix.

******
14 May 2010
10
'The Matrix' must be one of the most ambitious and highly successful
projects of the past twenty years. Its difficult to imagine how this
film could have gone from conception to execution, and succeeded with
such flying colors. For a long time I've avoided writing a review
because this was my "Godfather" or "Star Wars" movie, having first seen
it at 13 and instantly falling in love with it. I could never be truly
objective about this movie, nor could I find a single truthful,
objective analysis of it anywhere on IMDb or RT. Roger Ebert's review
was nice, but too harsh.'Bound' helped me appreciate better how 'Matrix' was conceived. Neither
of these two films has a single wasted moment. It seems that the
Wachowskis build a film by cascading a set of scenes, like a series of
dominos, so that each scene projects into the next one. This is of
course what all screenwriters do, but as simple as it sounds, it is no
mean feat. The most important part of any film, I think, is how you
connect scenes, how you work on transitions so as to create meaning and
plausibility. What you show, how you show, and most importantly, what
you Don't show. This is extremely difficult. It requires a deep
understanding of the cognitive mechanics at work between a film and a
viewer. It is, if you like, the most important part of film-making, as
important (if not more) than the actual shooting process.The brothers nailed this whole conception business down to the last
detail. The editor won an Oscar, but the film was streamlined by the
directors for perfect editing. The cinematography and sound design is
breathtaking. Joel Silver brought another influence to bear in terms of
production expertise. They worked on the formidable design and effects
requirements, even bringing in a legendary Hong Kong action
choreographer for the martial arts scenes.And then they made casting choices that could not have been better.
This film rests on the visual and vocal libido of the leads. It works
only because the actors work, because we relate and identify with them.
Just watch Weaving and Fishburne scorch the frame in their respective
parts; these are their best roles. Moss is visually apt. Reeves is
unwittingly perfect for his role, more perfect than anyone could have
imagined.Another important part of this film is the self-reference. This film
riffs on itself many times in many ways, such as when Mouse asks Neo
how the machines could possibly know about the taste of Tasty Wheat.
This is essentially winking at the viewer by momentarily snapping the
plausibility of the whole idea. Also, this whole franchise is one big
stab at the Terminator movies and their enduring popularity. Instead of
time travel, we have virtual reality. Instead of terminators, we have
agents. Instead of John Connor....None of this explains how they came up with this concept. The keystone
of the arch is hidden. There are countless other 'influences' here :
Phil Dick, William Gibson, Doctor Who, Grant Morrisson's 'The
Invisibles' etc. And as with Tarantino, we are unable to say for sure
whether it is homage or plagiarism. The innovation lies in the
architecture of the whole thing, in the layering, in the flawless
integration of so many different design elements to form a seamless,
coherent entity. The Matrix is everywhere indeed.This is the only way to make movies.

******
13 May 2010
10
Never has any movie so completely fulfilled my every wish of a movie
experience as The Matrix did, and still does.I first saw this movie while visiting an older friend of my family in
London. The cinema had two parallel shows; The Matrix and The Mummy. We
debated for a while which one to chose (he was more than twice my age
at the time), he voting for the Mummy, since he knew that story (he
thought) from his own matinées growing up. I had heard just rumor about
these two movies, and only knew that I wasn't very keen on a classical
matinée (being 29 at the time). So we went to see The Matrix...When we left the cinema two hours later, we were both silent. What had
we just seen? Slowly we started talking about the movie experience we
had just had, or rather, I did. My older friend was very confused, and
I think regretted a little that we hadn't seen The Mummy instead. I on
the other hand, got more and more excited. My first impressions were of
course the special effects, what I learned to be the so called Bullet
Time, in the movie. But the more we talked about it, the more the story
of this fantastic action movie became the center of discussion.Yes, the STORY. It spoke to me in so many and interesting ways, I don't
even think I understood on that walk home from town. An action movie
with so much dialogue, it just doesn't compute! And with so many layers
of philosophy, religion, science (fiction) and just pure intelligence,
it's not supposed to be in an action movie. Period. Never before (maybe
once, with Baraka) has a movie added to and completed my view of life,
the Universe and Everything... I'm not sure I slept at all that night.I saw it again, after returning home to Sweden, and then got the DVD at
its first release. Have I got it on Bluray? Not yet!

******
11 December 2009
6
..I reckon it's aimed for a certain type of viewers.I love Action, Sci-fi, and so on; However, and believe me I have tried,
never found that greatness that many were on about after its release. Therefore, I just cannot get all the cult movement it created afterward
(black coats, tattoos, slang,...) For me it was a very original film,
nice fights (although the effects were not all that) and just average
interpretations from the cast with the exception of the always
effective Hugo Weaving (Agent Smith) and little more.I would not recommend it to those who do not have an open mind for
fantasy and Sci-fi.Hope this was useful!

******
5 September 2009
2
With its trite Kafka-wannabe subtext and pretensions to profundity,
this badly acted (Reeves is like a lump of wood, with a permanently
perplexed look on his dumb face), poorly scripted, mess of a movie had
me yawning and, at times, bristling with irritation. The stupid, faux
philosophy about different realities was clearly ripped from a film
called Dark City, which was far more chilling and unhinged, and managed
to steer clear of the juvenile philosophical clap-trap that infected
The Matrix (even the title is lame).Its only saving grace was some innovatory and influential action
sequences and a good Don Davis score.But the action eventually seemed
to contrive to divert the viewer from the paucity of original ideas
exhibited, and culminated in a ridiculous, Dodge City-style shoot 'em
up that had me laughing out loud. Then Neo turns into Superman:
yep,s-o-o-o original. Then there's the bit where Neo is resurrected by
the kiss by Trinity. It's ET and Snow White and every other
now-predictable cliché in the cannon of story telling. To top that
Fishburne's character whispers in hushed awe: "He's The One". I would
have laughed if it wasn't so pathetic.In another comment someone described this and the sci-fi benchmark for
all others to follow. Excuse me?! Show some me actual science in this
muddled subterranean labyrinth, then I might reconsider. I won't even
comment on the ensuing two movies,with the preposterous Christ fixation
that dominated the third. Horrible, style-over-content rubbish.

******
29 September 2007
10
This movie is so cool you will think you have just come back from a
refreshing vacation in some place that you might like to go to
(wherever that may be). The film is so cool it doesn't even matter
where you have been on the vacation you will feel like you have just
had.This movie is all about the matrix, which I think is a place exactly
like the planet earth but only it's completely different and is
controlled by robots. I'm not sure exactly what it is. The movie did
make me feel very discombobulated like an imbalance of apples and
oranges, but that doesn't matter because it had explosions and fighting
with punches and kicks LOL! This movie is so much fun to witness. It's
just so great that I can't even begin to tell you (although I have
already told you some things). If you like action that blows your
smackers you will not be disappointed.

******
26 September 2005
2
You sit and wonder... when is something going to happen? You wait and
wait... So the story starts in de first part by giving you a different
view on the world we live in (which we are not aware of...interesting).
After you realise this the movie just crashes. The screenwriter
obviously had no idea where to go from this point on and slows the
story down. There is some action which leads to nowhere. The story
doesn't progress and you're just waiting for the story to start and
progress. The main reason you would want to see this movie is because
of the special effects and at some points a lot of action is going on
but... the story isn't going anywhere which makes you feel like the
movie just goes on and on and on... In the end I felt that its a shame,
because a good idea got slaughtered by a bad screenwriter. I gave 2
point just for the idea.

******
17 June 2005
2
There are many fans of the Matrix movies out there. Die-hard, weirdo,
and theological. Agents, all of them.I must say that this movie did not impress. The main theory, the
central story plot of the computer simulation being the real world, was
the only thing that kept this movie from being discarded into the
rubbish bin. The effects, hailed as amazing, did not fully impress.
There was too much foul mouth, immorality, and otherwise HUMANITY'S
WASTE PITS on screen. Violence was extreme--and unnecessary. The entire
story could have been turned into a magnificent three-hour movie with
excellent dialogue, scenery, depth, and other aspects that make a good
movie. Instead, it was all mashed into a sludge of action and
destruction and basic hatred of other people. It was disgusting.
Furthermore, the acting was abominable. Look at it closely, with the
hatred given to Star Wars by so many envious people, and you will see
that Keanu Reeves makes Hayden Christenson look like an Oscar winner.My opinion. And I hope that you agree. The movie could have been much
better, much more interesting. Not to mention, the final shot kind of
destroyed the end...I cracked up there, laughing hysterically. Was that
supposed to IMPRESS? Sorry, takes more than that to impress me.Twenty percent."Wars not make one great." --Yoda

******
27 August 2001
7

I really cannot understand the hype & gushing praise for this sfx/cgi
gloated film.The story is routine - a contemporary mix of Men In Black, Tron and a
shedload of other "10 seconds to go before the world is destroyed"
movies.The principle idea of a make-believe world called The Matrix, a world
where
we all live totally oblivious to the fact that this world is totally
artificial and controlled by machines, could have been immensely
interesting
in the hands of a better set of scriptwriters & directors. In any case
this
kind of story isn't a million miles away from Douglas Adams' Hitchhiker's
Guide To the Galaxy, a book far more interesting than this
rubbish.For the sake of a good story the Wachoowski Brothers (writers & directors)
went all gooey for lots of cgi to distract the viewer with the many
plotholes and poor character development. The story simply gets in the way
of a good sfx. And on and on it goes, each cgi trying to out "wow" the
previous effect to the point where you wonder whether this is nothing more
than an expensive computer game.People went wild when we saw our heroes climb up walls, jump huge rooftops
&
dodge speeding bullets in slowmo. But so what? I feel we have become so
blaise about cgi that only our imagination limits us to what we think is
possible. And the cgi in this film no longer had the same kind of "jaw
dropping" effect as one witnessed in Star Wars, Terminator 2 or even
2001:Space Odyssey.Our superheroes, Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishbourne & Carrie Annie Moss,
looked like bit players compared to the computer bits making up the over
indulgent CGIs. Fishbourne tries to come over all cool & hip, but looks
fairly average when asked to do anything remotely interesting; Reeves acts
just like...well...Reeves, with that usual "no one's home" expression &
designer jackets. While Moss hops in & out of the movie when it looks as
if
the going's getting a bit tough for Reeves, resulting in an ending ripped
straight from Luc Besson's 5th Element!This film lives off its own hype & marketing, and already looks dated.
Once
you've viewed the film more than a couple of times and got used to the sfx
you then want to look for more depth only to find that its only the sfx
that
holds the film together.BAD!**/*****

******
30 October 1999
6

As the world and the movies head into a brand new millenium, old narrative
formats have been gilded with all the techno/cyber concepts and jargon that
now inundate us in our daily lives.  In no areas of filmmaking is this more
true than the action/adventure and sci-fi genres.  Probably the most
popular
example to date comes in the form of "The Matrix", a film that actually
chooses as its setting a never-never land located somewhere between reality
and the abstract plane of cybernetics.The plot of the film, though too complex to reiterate here, is actually put
forward in a fairly straightforward, comprehensible manner.  What is
missing
from the film is the essential grounding in reality that makes the audience
care if the main characters succeed in their mission (to rescue the world
of
course) or fail.  Unlike say "Enemy of the State", which managed to grapple
with the potential dangers of an over-computerized and mechanized society
in
a world with which we are all familiar, "The Matrix" takes us to a sci-fi
world that never fully engages the audience in even its own reality.  Part
of the problem may be that the film's visual designers settle for the
conventional sci-fi view of the future world as a series of dark, cramped,
fog enshrouded rooms and corridors familiar to us from countless such
movies.  We follow the obviously well thought-out and meticulously
explained
storyline but find ourselves never particularly engaged in the characters
or
feel any stake in the outcome of the final resolution.
As to the film's much vaunted special effects, they are, admittedly at
times, intriguing, but since computer graphics now make even the most
preposterous situations possible on the screen, the audience craves more
than simply scattered moments of jawdropping visuals to engage its full
attention.  "The Matrix"  borders on dullness quite often during its
overlong 136 minute running time.  Perhaps a movie that takes place in a
world that really isn't a world needs a more engaging central character to
make the audience care.

******
22 July 1999
2

Take a bit from "Men in Black" (leave the humor out) something from "Last
Man Standing" (leave good acting out) from "Twelve Monkeys" (leave real
suffering and compassion out) and take half a dozen other ones (like some
"Martial Arts") mix it and get a block buster. Hey, add a deep
philosophical
idea like that maybe everything is unreal!It sounds like a joke but it is not. They actually got away with it with
"The Matrix".
I mean probably every bright 15 year old comes up with the idea one day
that
everything is fake that somehow only he (or she?) can see through it. And
I
do not say you cannot make a film out of it but has the result to be like
this?
The Matrix is by far the most stupid film I ever saw. I want to believe in
bizarre concepts but this is so mind-boggingly stupid that it would mean
too
much honor to even start talking about it.
I have seen a lot of senseless violence but this must get a price for the
best pretext: They can "beam" into a particular "space-time" point of the
program but not quite so our heroes have to literally shoot their way
through. Amazing!
The sad thing about it is that people actually enjoy the crap which makes
me
think that the Matrix probably is true after all. Since it seems unlikely
that real people with a mind of their own can take the film seriously or
enjoy it there must be some brain-washing or programming going
on.
My girl friend nearly left me once because I liked a "horrid" movie like
"Twelve Monkeys" and even she liked The Matrix. She probably hopes that
Jesus will look and act like Keanu Reeves at his next coming. What a
depressing thought.
If the only good thing to say about a film is that visual effects were up
to
standard one should leave it. The sun glasses were pretty cool
though.

******
20 March 2007
5
Like many films, there's a lot of heated debate about this one. So what
can be said? On many occasions, I have heard grand statements from its
fans, about the incredible, thought provoking story. The whole 'What is
Reality?' issue. Well, actually, in Science Fiction, this is a pretty
well-trod concept. Oddly enough, the Matrix escaped its SF roots, and
managed to be seen by a wider audience who were unfamiliar with SF or
its concepts. As a result, there were resounding cries of how original
and creative it was. Is it good that it made a few more people think?
Yes. Does that by default mean that it did it well? Films such as
"ExistenZ", "Dark City", or "The 13th Floor" (from around the same
time), all explored the idea of 'What is Reality?' in far more depth.
They simply didn't get the same level of exposure. The Matrix wins,
because it was one of those lucky films to fill the right niche at the
right time. It utilized Computer Effects in a relatively new way for
the cinema 'wow' factor. It appealed to the all-action, gun-toting,
look-cool-in-black leather, fans. It rammed the 'kung-fu-wire-stunt'
style of action film into over-drive. It had a 'hip' soundtrack to
appeal to the masses (Which will date it badly in years to come).It's difficult to criticise The Matrix, because there's nothing really
bad about it, as long as you enjoy, or at least don't mind, that style
of film. What it fails to do, is bring anything else to the game.
There's nothing really fresh or creative idea-wise, here. The
characters are thinly drawn stereotypes. The action tends to be about
lots of shell-casings rather than anything else. Scratch the surface,
and what few ideas there are, aren't explored to any consequence.It is a perfect example of style over substance, pretending to say more
than it actually does. 'Emperor's New Clothes' if you will. There's
nothing wrong with a good mindless action film, from time-to-time.
Cinema, in many ways at its core, is simply about pure entertainment.
There are numerous films of this kind, but the difference is, they
don't pretend to be more than they are. Perhaps that is where the
Matrix fails. It sets itself up as though it is exploring some
grandiose, thought-provoking topic, and is really just a roller-coaster
action film. On rare occasions, some films can do both. This isn't one
of them.If you take it as that, a mindless action trill-ride with a couple of
fun concepts, there's nothing wrong with it, to waste a few hours. If
you're expecting more, chances are, you'll find it lacking.

******
25 April 2004
7

If you are some small programmer working for some big company, doing all
day
the same
stupid work you might fall for the idea that your life is not as boring
and
senseless as it
seems (and maybe actually is), but that you are in fact the god and
creator
of this world. The
normal reaction should be: Turn that computer off, take a vacation, maybe
seek professional
help.
You can also make a movie...Matrix is not boring, it`s tense and it has stunning visuals. But like a
good video clip does
not make the music worth listening to, a whole bunch of special effects do
not make a great
movie.After watching the Matrix I recognized that:1. I don't get why super-robots, who overwhelmed the whole human kind, are
not able to
build
some nuclear power plants, despite the fact that they really needn't care
about radioactive
pollution. Instead they get their energy from humans, and if you take a
look
at their body
"farms"  you must agree that it looks like they are putting a lot more
energy into it than they
get out of it...
A good movie (even if it's science fiction) should provide some ground
level
logic in its story.2. I did not care about the characters. They die? Hmmm, okay. Trinity
loves
Neo? Uh, why is
that? Did I miss something?
A good movie makes me feel for the characters and understand their
reactions. In this point
Matrix is a total failure. Ever watched Brazil? You maybe should if you'd
like to see a good
"big brother" picture.3. This pseudo religious bla bla. Realize that there is no spoon? I
realized
that there is
something else missing somewhere in the story writers head. Well, wouldn't
be so bad, if
there weren't point 1 and 2.4. This background theme of being something better than the others. Uh, am
I
really just
some role playing games liking informatics student? Or am I the master of
the universe? Look
in the mirror, decide for yourself...does not look like Keanu Reeves? What
a
surprise.Watch this movie, it won't bore you. But if you think your going to see a
REALLY good movie,
or even a masterpiece, keep away from it. You will be quite disappointed
afterwards.Ah, and if you like MTV...this is the best movie ever made.
;)5/10

******
19 October 2003
10

i love this movie for the manny many themes that come up repeatedly. The
story's arch is quite good in that it doesn't feel as though much of
anything else could be added. The central philosophy is admirably brought
to
a movie that a mainstream audience can digest, along with metaphorical and
allegorical strains of the bible, alice in wonderland, drug use, the life
cycle, cartesian dualism, buddhist one consciousness, giger style enemies,
artificial intelligence, newtonian physics, orwellian nightmares, and
euclidean view of the world as a series of numbers and probabilities. Sci
fi
need not be the same old, evil monster chase humans without rhyme or
reason.
The movie dooes sidestep charecter development by making it's charecters
not
know who they are, and also by killing most of them off as soon as they
are
met. while this isn't the arty pretentious greatness of citizen kane or
waking life, it is a movie that is likely to be long remembered and
worshipped like Star Wars

******
15 July 2001
2

People had told me two things about this movie. First, that it was difficult
to understand. It isn't. The plot is very simple and understandable. Second,
that this was a great movie. It isn't. The plot is so understandable that
it's boring. Almost everything in this movie is a rehash of science fiction
themes that have come up over and over again. It's somewhere around the year 2199. We know that because Morpheus (played -
well played I concede - by Lawrence Fishburne) tells us. Machines have
conquered humanity and taken over. OK. I can think of at least one original
Star Trek episode and the entire series Battlestar Galactica that revolved
around that. The whole thing takes place inside a series of computer
programs. OK. The holodeck on the Starship Enterprise, or any number of
movies about Virtual Reality spring to mind. One person (Neo, played by
Keanu Reeves) will save the world. Hmmm. Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home:
"Captain Kirk, you and your crew have saved this planet." In short, there
just isn't anything original in this story. How it makes it to #31 on the
all time list (at the time of writing) is beyond me.There are some good things in this movie. There must have been a massive
special effects budget, because the special effects are superb. No argument
there. But great special effects - and even some good performances by
Fishburne and Reeves (and a drily humorous performance by Hugo Weaving as
Agent Smith) don't make up for the basic weakness of this entirely
unoriginal story.2/10 - solely for the special effects.

******
30 January 2011
10
Humans... are... really computer programs That are existing inside the
Quantum Physics of worlds created by their own mind and behavior
"Karma" is just the old way of describing todays Quantum Physics How
you behave is the world you live in .....and get three chances to
escape to a better existence.. by reacting differently to your life's
problems...EVOLVE.. Free Your Mind ! ....Just as Morpheus says, much
more than a sci-fi flick a quick peek at the paradigm shift that is
starting to make its' presents felt, A bit shocking at first review,
but rich in valuable symbolism for the logic centers in your
walnut..Think Bio computers,DNA and Gene mapping and the 72 names of
God for you Kabbalah fans Each letter in the Torah is used to make 3
letter words that represent Gods names Each is a description of a DNA
code sequence that is used to map out life Just Thinking Can you
imagine if God is really a ancient computer and all the experiences we
have help give him that ever present eveywhere existence

******
17 March 2009
9
I couldn't believe the people who voted poorly for this legendary, top
creative movie. I'm dead sure they didn't understand the story behind
the world & the principles of the Matrix. Go see this movie 5 times
more, then watch the Animatrix & read the books, maybe you need a
manual to make it to your minds who knows....I agree that a quite similar idea was used in Alex Proyas' Dark City.
But what if I tell you both Dark City, & this so called Star Trek
Episode is a complete copy of another concept?Go see for yourself. Google these keywords down :"ALLEGORY OF THE CAVE by Plato""Thinking so ruthless for the ones who create or derive ideas & improve
them to a point where they can shape it into a movie, & not showing any
respect for creative minds".... it's a very easy thing to do. If I start to think so blame oriented,
then I come to a conclusion which is "from this time ,no one should
make a movie. No horror movies! No vampires, no werewolves, no
creatures. No thrillers with killers. Why? because these were all used
200 centuries ago in books & literature. Oh all movies are copycats
right!?!? Then I think we should kill ourselves, drink cyanide or
something. there is nothing else to do in this world.

******
18 November 2004
10
What Star Wars brought to Sci-Fi and movie goers in 1977 the Matrix
brought back in 1999. For a whole new generation of movie goers and for
older fans of Sci-Fi The Matrix was one of those movies you go back and
watch again and again. An excellent mix of technology, acting, and
story. How many of us today have not felt or wondered if this is all
real? Does the Matrix have you? Classic lines from the movie which ask
questions on several levels.Casting was excellent, direction was top notch, and the CGI was over
the top. People will forget or have forgotten the new methods and
techniques that the Matrix brought to us that we now see on TV and
every other movie out on the screen today. A much better product then
the next two Matrix movies. I would recommend both of those to
hard-core fans of the The Matrix. So if you want a great action flick
or a great action flick which will make you think the Matrix is the
movie for you to watch. Now after the success or lack of success of
Matrix I, II, and III will there be a Number 4? Will Neo return? In
many ways I hope he does.

******
30 July 2003
8

Maybe it's not that bad, but what makes it all the worse is how highly
acclaimed it is. I had to keep slapping myself to stat awake during this
movie. The storyline for this movie is sooooo modern and overplayed. This
is
in a way just a hyped up and sci-fi version of the truman show. I will
never
understand how this movie got to be soooo well liked. This is one of the
only movies that everybody seems to disagree with me on. So if you're
wondering why i'm writing this it's just to prove anybody wrong who thinks
that there is nobody who hates this movie because i do. Also if you're a
fellow matrix hater then i feel you're pain especially this year now that
2
of them are coming out at the same time practically. I'm just glad the
second one failed moneywise so that hopefully the third one will get
hardly
any money and all this talk about the future Star Wars trilogy will be
thrown out the window. 

******
24 May 2004
6
I've always called the first Matrix film a rip-off. It's a mix of many
different films put together with component parts stolen from the
Terminator (robots rule the future and have enslaved the remainder of
humanity), Total Recall (futuristic 'Is it a dream or reality' sci-fi)
and even Johnny Mnemonic (futuristic cyberpunk trash starring Keanu
Reeves as a guy who can plug computers into his head and 'go into
them'), plus various other works by William Gibson and a lot of Anime.Thomas 'Neo' Anderson, is a computer programmer/hacker who meets with
the mythical cyber-terrorist Morpheous, who asks Neo if he wishes to
know the truth about the world or live a lie forever. Neo chooses truth
and soon wakes in a gel-filled pod in a techno-hell future. His body,
and billions of others, is nothing more than a battery to power the
machines that rule the future (exactly what they do with this world
that they now rule is not explored).Convinced that Neo is 'The One', Morpheous trains him to be deadly
digital warrior, but this set-up doesn't go beyond fighting a sentient
program called Agent Smith. The war against the machines comes later.There's no denying that the film, unfortunately, was massively
influential for virtually every action film that followed. Gone was the
'Die Hard' formula where action was gritty, somewhat realistic, and
with practical stuntwork. In it's place they all went for excessive
CGI, green-tinted photography, impossible cameras, and impossible
physics. The Matrix is semi-stylish with it, but it doesn't ever
entertain or excite me.It's the style of the Matrix that's more fondly cherished than the
story. It won 4 technical Academy Awards, proving that all the Matrix
is is eye-candy. Call that narrow-minded if you want but I believe this
movie is no more than a very, very popular cult movie. A contradiction
in terms yes, but still the most appropriate way of describing it.

******
17 May 2004
5

Really, my summary says it all.It's a cute premise overwhelmed by its need to be cool at the expense
of plot, characters, meaning, or consistency. It has philosophical and
literary pretensions that come off as kindergarten philosophy at best
and ham-handed at worst. Luckily, these can be ignored fairly easily.Good action sequences for the most part. Most of the cast is
summer-movie capable. i.e. Their acting is neither embarrassing nor
impressive. Keanu gives his second-best performance ever (after Bill
and Ted's Excellent Adventure). Unfortunately, that is likely merely
the convergence of his naturally confused look with the confusion
inherent to the character.All things considered a fun action movie provided you don't buy the
hype telling you that it is so much more.By the way, stop with this one. This movie is watchable and complete in
its own and is only degraded by its truly dreadful sequels. If this
movie is the triumph of style over substance, its sequels are the cruel
beating and maiming of substance by style gone bad.


******
5 September 1999
7
... I don't know how long.  Probably that's why it didn't do as
well as big,
dumb, lumbering things like "Independence Day" and "The Phantom Menace",
and
a dozen or so films I didn't bother to watch.Much of what you will have heard about this film is false.  You will have
heard that the premise is that we're all prisoners in a virtual reality
world; but the premise is not that WE are prisoners in a virtual reality
world - it's a good deal more interesting than that.  You will have heard
that it's hip and cynical; but thankfully, it's neither.  You will have
heard the word "cyberpunk" being used, with the odd allusion to films like
"The Ghost in the Shell" and "Blade Runner"; but it's NOT pretentious,
deep-breathing, tawdry angst of that kind at all.  It's really quite
charming once you get to know it.  Beneath all the up-to-the-minute
computer
gimcracks lies a gentle and trusting heart.The central character is played by Keanu Reeves, and I retract my claim
that
there's no use for the man.  Indeed he acts rather well.  Admittedly he
plays a character who spends most of the film, and indeed most of his
life,
with the air of someone who (in the words of another character) isn't
worried because he expects to wake up soon; but being able to do this well
is being able to do something well.  Besides, we spend the opening half
being at least half as bewildered as he is - even if we've read the plot
synopsis.  When the set-up is revealed in all its glory I admit that one
or
two details are a bit far fetched.  But I never felt that my intelligence
was insulted in the way things had been revealed to me.Special effects are marvellous.  I don't think I've ever seen
computer-generated images look this convincing - usually they disfigure a
movie - and there are several reasons why they work so well.  A dark (but
attractively dark) style of lighting shows them at their best.
Psychological tricks - well-chosen camera angles, misdirection - are used
to
make us believe in what we see: no-one makes the assumption that George
Lucas made in "The Phantom Menace", that software alone will do the trick.
And more to the point, a story has been chosen where the kind of
technology
favoured by Hollywood these days is not out of place.  The air of vague
phoniness that computer effects impart, the sense that something is deeply
wrong, is exactly what we want in a story where something really IS deeply
wrong.Only two things let the film down: the last couple of minutes (and after
two
fantastic hours I can forgive a little fumble at the end), and a HORRIBLY
synthetic musical score, which seems to be there only to make us glad when
it stops.  Luckily it stops often enough and it only succeeds in ruining
one
or two scenes.  I don't know - maybe this kind of musical pollution has
been
around for a while, and I only noticed it now because "The Matrix", unlike
the brainless action movies surrounding us on all sides, deserves
better.

******
23 June 2004
6
One of the most overrated films of ALL TIME, if not THE most overrated
film of all time. Why people love this movie so much completely baffles
me. I realize that different people have different opinions and tastes
but even some fellow reviewers here that have comparable tastes to mine
praise this film to my astonishment. There isn't anything great here,
so why all the fuss? It's not original, and if you think it is you
didn't see Dark City or a slew of others....the story is very slow,
it's pretentious beyond words, and the acting is absolutely terrible to
the point that it's hard to sit through without wanting to bite a
running chainsaw, all thanks to the abysmally talented Reeves and
Laurence Lamprey aka Cowboy Curtis. The ending is also weak, and don't
tell me it's because they had planned on making a sequel because movies
should be able to stand alone.....and don't even get me started on the
sequels. At least they're not too overrated. I have felt this way since
1999 when it came out and I went to see it in the theater. When it was
finally over, I said, "That's it?!"Let's go over this piece, shall we? People praise this film for it's
fight choreography, when the people fighting are tools like Fishburne
and Reeves. Are you serious? I can't help but to laugh out loud at
Keanu in the dojo training scene with Lamprey. He looks like he's got a
Klingon dagger rammed up his butt! This is the "One"?! I can't think of
anyone more miscast. Actually, I can't think of a film where he
wouldn't be miscast. True, a lot of my discontent with this film comes
from the actors, but even with decent actors I still think it would've
failed. The story is also sloppy and filled with more useless
techno-babble than a quantum-physics book from Brent Spiner's "Data"
from the Star Trek: The Next Generation series. To sum it up, it
doesn't make any sense. People as batteries? OK. For a movie that
spouts so much techno-babble at you, it's not very technical. It's all
a red herring.My biggest problem with the people that like this film is that they
praise it for it's originality when that could not be further from the
truth. Do your research or just watch more movies and you'll begin to
realize that this film is nothing more than a long list of rip-offs
from others films....and it gets the credit for all of it. This isn't
the film's fault, it's the uneducated fans....the same fans responsible
for it's ridiculously lofty rating here at IMDb. I think the rip-offs
were intentional personally, and I don't think even the Wachowski
brothers thought it'd be as successful as it was because of it.Criminally overrated....and will not stand the test of time. The
epitome of the phrase, "Style over substance." Just another summer
blockbuster.It's a lot like Pokemon. People like it, but I can't understand
why....and I don't think they do either. I think this will just be
another fad. Time will tell.

******
14 July 2003
5

I have heard so much about the Matrix and finally watched it for the first
time this weekend.Boy, were there lots of action sequences. Lots and lots and lots of action
sequences. You can feel the filmmakers just trying to top the last
sequence
instead of doing something like advancing the plot or developing the
characters. Unless you think the action sequence is the be-all-and-end-all
of movies, all that action just gets boring after a while. I have nothing
against whiz-bang special effects as long as they do something worthwhile
to
move the film along (the Lord of the Rings films are good at this). But
this
is just not happening with the Matrix.The Matrix concept itself is thought-provoking. Why isn't it developed
more?
The fact that this monumental struggle for the soul of humanity ends up
with
a shoot-out, a helicopter-dangling rescue sequence and a martial arts
fight
is almost laughable. It's like saying the mysteries of the universe can be
unraveled by watching beer commercials. If you want to see an ending that
leaves you with something worth chewing on, you'll be sadly disappointed
(as
I was).As for other elements of the movie -- Keanu Reeves, as much as I usually
enjoy watching him, was extremely wooden. Fishburne and Moss were good at
what they did, but their parts were pretty two-dimensional. I couldn't get
emotionally involved with any of the characters, which is ultimately the
fault of the writers. The cinematography and "style" of the film and the
sets is pretty cool to look at. However, the whole black clothes and
sunglasses motif is just a little bit hokey after a while. And the
agents --
I swear they look just like the bad aliens in Brother From Another
Planet --
I kept expecting them to shriek at each other.I look at it this way - people who think that sitting in front of their
tubes and playing video games is a worthwhile way to spend their lives
will
probably love this movie. People who want something more will think it's
pretty hollow. It's a shame because the concept had a lot of potential,
but
the filmmakers took the easy way out.

******
5 March 2005
8
After seeing this movie it changed the way i will look at sci-fi movies
for the rest of my life. This film was taken straight from the
imagination of the Wachowski. The amazing special effects drove this
film along with great sound editing and dialog. Just in case you don't
know i will tell you the main plot of the movie. Neo is just an average
guy who ends up being hunted by Agent Smith. HE ends up being one of
the crew members with Morpheus and Trinity. Morpheus thinks that Neo is
"The One" which means that this person would be very strong and can
dodge bullets and do wild stuff like that.The reason so many people loved this movie was because it was so out of
this world and no one else not even Mr.Spielberg could have done this
movie because only two brothers could have brought this to life and
made one of the best sci-fi sagas ever made(tied with the "Alien" saga)
and make remembered through generations, so i hope when i get old this
movie will still be remembered because it is simply amazing.

******
18 October 2006
8
Special-effects were the drawing card when this came out at the end of
the 20th century, and those effects were spectacular. They lived up to
their billing. Unfortunately, the story was a bit confusing for much of the two hours,
a bit too secular-minded for me, although others have viewed this with
Biblical analogies. I do think the script could have used some humor
here and there. It took itself a little too seriously. That was
especially true for the four main characters.Nonetheless, because of the stylish visuals and effects, it
entertained. I liked the monotone-speaking Hugo Weaver the best, or at
least found him the most interesting. Lawrence Fishburne's character
came in a close second in that regard. Once again here's a movie that made you glad VHS tapes were being
phased out in favor of sharper, widescreen transfers.

******
8 August 2005
2
1959 saw one of cinema's greatest achievements, 'Plan 9 from Outer
Space'. Widely regarded as the worst film of all time, it featured a
plot unrivalled in absurdity.Then came 'The Matrix'. Apparently robots (or space zombies, or some
variety of scary CGI monsters) have enslaved humanity, and are
harvesting them for energy. To keep their living batteries entertained
the robo-zombies (or space alligators, it doesn't really matter) have
created a giant computer game called 'the Matrix'. With a
devil-may-care disregard for the first law of thermodynamics, this game
runs on the energy of the people it simulates.But some of these people break out of the computer game and live in a
rusty metal bucket and eat gruel. Being heroes, they plan to overthrow
their demon-squid robot overlords and free humanity, so they can all
live in rusty metal buckets and eat gruel. There are some philosophical
pretensions and religious references in there, but these are too
simplistic and crass to be worth going any deeper into.Keanu Reeves gives a very believable performance of bad acting, while
the rest of the cast mince around in sunglasses and trench-coats,
delivering dialogue which serves no other purpose than carrying the
plot.The first fifteen minutes of this film are quite watchable, which is
why I am giving it a generous two out of ten.

******
17 November 2002
1

The fact that this movie is #33 on the IMDB lists, and that millions of
people think of it as incredibly deep and philosophical speaks volumes
about
the dumbing down of our culture. The more powerful our computers and
gadgetry become, the less deep our thinking, and a piece of recycled
tinsel
like this is considered great art.  Maybe we really are living in the
Matrix.
The only people who could possibly think of this as original are those who
have watched nothing but MTV and played all the latest first person
shooters
and who dismiss any film over 5 years old as garbage.  Ohhh!  Neo has
parallels with Christ!  What a wild and unheard of concept!  Computers
taking over the world?  Well, the Terminator DID say "I'll be
back!"
I had a hard time staying awake for this movie.  I was really
disappointed,
because my friend had built this piece of dung up to be a
masterpiece.
The sequels are coming soon, but I predict they will flop, because Keanu
Reeves is in his late 30s now, and considered an "old man" by the target
audience for these films.  

******
23 January 2005
10
What is the Matrix? It's a computer program created by the machines
that now control our world, used a means to control our minds while we
are used as batteries.In the wake of a war between mankind and machines, most humans now live
in this computer generated world, and for the few that don't, life is
pretty hard, living in the squalid remains of our planet.Keanu Reeves (Neo) a computer hacker is trapped within the Matrix, but
he has a dream of something more. Growing suspicion of his surroundings
and a belief that his life isn't quite right leads him to the truth,
where he is rescued by a handful of freedom fighters lead by Morpheus
(Laurence Fishburne)Does this seem a little mad? It does to me, but the fact remains that
throughout our history millions have fought and died for the idea of
freedom, so i guess this is human nature to try and attain freedom,
regardless of the consequences that may ensue.Once free from the Matrix, Neo is told that he is the one (a little
cheesy), he is the one man that can beat the machines, because he can
bend the rules of the Matrix and become more powerful than the programs
(agents) who control it, they are governed by rules and he isn't (now
there's a nice trade off, for living in squalor. If you get bored, just
plug in and kick some ass, sounds cool) Using groundbreaking special
effects techniques the Matrix takes us to the next level, techniques
that we now take for granted and see every day, were born right here.As Neo struggles to believe he is the one, the team continue to pitch
battle against the machines in style, as they enter the matrix and
fight to bring it down and rise up against mankind's captures.This movie really is cool, the cast is strong, in particular Laurence
Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss, the script is pretty slick and the idea
is good enough to get us thinking (at very least it acts as a vehicle
to carry the visual feast that is The Matrix) For its originality,
groundbreaking effects and sheer enjoyment i give it 10/10, even though
it does have some tiny flaws.

******
16 December 2014
9
Innovative Elements: The MatrixComputer programmer by day and computer hacker by night: Neo, played by
actor Keanu Reeves, is led down a path to discover what the matrix
really is. With the help of Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne) and a rag tag
team of computer hackers, Neo makes a choice to seek the truth. This
Sci-Fi action thriller is full of mind-bending chases, gravity-defying
action, and kung-fu-packed fight scenes that blow your mind time and
time again. Neo is contacted by a mysterious message that appears on his computer
asking, "Do you want to know what the matrix is?" As he is following
clues to the truth, the path becomes shaky, and he does not know if he
is dreaming or awake along the way. Neo eventually discovers the
answer, and the dream quickly becomes realitya reality leaving Neo
wondering if he really wanted to know the truth. The Matrix was filmed
using a dark green filter, creating an eerie ambiance that contributes
to the mystery behind Matrix. The main setting for the movie takes
place in the dark side of New York's grimy subways, back alleys, and
abandoned buildings. The New York backdrop makes for some great chase
scenes with characters ducking in and out of buildings, leaping across
rooftops, through apartment buildings, and down fire escapes. The movie
is full of groundbreaking special effects that set the stage for what
we see in movies today. The director uses multiple cameras, slow motion
effects, computer-generated imagery, and the help of guide wires to
create an out-of-this-world experience that defies physics. The tone of
bad-assery is set in the opening scene where the character Trinity
(Carrie-Anne Moss) has been captured by the police, but not for long.
She explodes into the air, and the frame is frozen; the camera circles
around her creating a 180-degree swooping effect before she unleashes a
furious kick to one of the cop's chest and sends him flying into the
wall. In another scene, Neo dodges three bullets with an incredible
back bend. The scene is in slow motion, and the viewer is able to see
the bullets ripple in the air, embellishing Neo's prowess as the
"Chosen One." The high-action fight scenes are full of gravity-defying
maneuvers that to the viewer are made believable because of the amazing
special effects. The Matrix was a stepping stone for modern-day special
effects; compared to today's standard, they seem a little slower and
not quite as polished, but it's important to recognize how cutting edge
this movie was for 1999. The camera work throughout is amazing, as
multiple views and cameras are used throughout the whole film. This is
one of the main ingredients in creating drama, suspense, and
unbelievable action. The scenes are all well thought out with
meticulous attention to detail. One scene in particular, where Neo is
asked to take the red pill or to take the blue pill, takes place in the
reflection of Morpheus' sunglasses. You are able to see both of
Morpheus' handsone holding the red pill in the right sunglass lens,
one holding the blue pill in the left sunglass lens, while Neo debates
his choiceall in the reflection of Morpheus' glasses. The film is full
of these little details and camera tricks that paved the way for movies
today. Though the movie is fast paced, it is also long and at times
hard to follow. If one doesn't have patience, or does not particularly
like science fiction, this movie might not be the best choice. As in
most sci-fi or action movies, the dialog can at times be a little
cheesy, and the viewer might find some of the acting a little over the
top. If you have been passing on The Matrix, its time you stop. The
choreography and setting dance hand in hand to a techno-driven
soundtrack that never skips a beat. This film is packed with action and
backed by a complex story that leaves the viewer anticipating the
sequel. Be prepared for your mind to be blown! This classic is cutting
edge for its time, crossing multiple genres and delivering on all
levels. The Matrix leaves the viewer thirsty for answers and
questioning existence.

******
14 December 2014
9
I feel like that they did a great job with this movie. All the
characters were great. The plot and everything was perfect. I would
watch this movie over and over again. I hope they make a new one
soon.You never know if the things in this movie could really be true.
What if we live in the Matrix? It would be so cool if we did. To find
out that we have been controlled by the government. I would love to be
Mr. Anderson. LOL. The other movies were good but you can never beat
the first.I really do hope they come out with one more that takes us
further into the future of the Matrix. I really hope this is enough
lines for this review now. I just want to say a little bit about how I
felt about the movie.

******
9 November 2013
9
The Wachowski brothers have created one of the more interesting sci-fi
world. Neo (Keanu Reeves) is a computer hacker who has a nagging
intuition that the world is wrong. He is literally Alice who goes down
the rabbit hole and finds his world is actually Wonderland. It marries
Lewis Carroll with HongKong Kung Fu wirework and the back trenchcoat.
They invent bullet time and amp up the cool factor in gun fights.The story borrows heavily from a lot of different sources. Machines
have taken over. The world is a computer construct. People fight using
computer avatars. These are all ideas that have been done before. The
Wachowskis have weaved it all together into a functional tapestry.But it is ultimately the cool visuals that makes this movie unique. For
a relatively lower big budget, the production value is incredible. They
have squeezed every movie magic out of all the visual and computer
effects.

******
24 September 2013
10
Co-directors Andy and Larry (now Lana) Wachowski fashioned one of the
most revolutionary science fiction sagas of all time with the
cyberspace thriller "The Matrix" with Keanu Reeves, Lawrence Fishburne,
Carrie Ann Moss, and Hugo Weaving. The first of a trilogy, this
136-minute, allegorical actioneer pits a group of resistance fighters
led by Neo and Trinity against the status quo villainy of 21st century
henchmen who wear suits and ties with sunglasses. The pioneering
"bullet time" cinematography is as incredible as the action is
audacious. Nothing is what it appears to be in "The Matrix." The
Wachowskis have appropriated a little bit of everything for their
derivative but striking cyberescapism. They have incorporated
philosophy, martial arts combat, Greek mythology, Biblical themes, and
ideas from movies such as "Strange Days" and "Dark City." Legendary
martial arts choreographer Woo-ping Yuen has staged some kinetic
gravity-defying, close-quarters combat sequences. Carrie Ann-Moss never
made another movie that matched "The Matrix." The first scene when she
runs up walls to elude the police, bounds across rooftops, and hurls
herself like Peter Pan over a street is sensational. This computer
generated scene gets the action off to a dynamic start and the
Wachowskis never let the pace lag even when things get a little
convoluted. Laurence Fishburne behaves like John the Baptist from the
Bible, and Hugo Weaving makes a diabolical villain. "The Matrix"
belongs in the top 100 science fiction films of all time.

******
15 September 2013
6
Connor Macgregor Reviews...The MatrixI have only seen The Matrix once and that was when i was about 10 or 11
and i had seen Matrix 2 first. I found Matrix 1 to be boring and drone
on. But now i am 16 and with much more useful knowledge i am going to
review it properly.So if you haven't worked out the plot by now here it is in all its
glory. Thomas A. Anderson is a man living two lives. By day he is an
average computer programmer and by night a malevolent hacker known as
Neo. Neo has always questioned his reality but the truth is far beyond
his imagination. Neo finds himself targeted by the police when he is
contacted by Morpheus, a legendary computer hacker branded a terrorist
by the government. Morpheus awakens Neo to the real world, a ravaged
wasteland where most of humanity have been captured by a race of
machines which live off of their body heat and imprison their minds
within an artificial reality known as the Matrix. As a rebel against
the machines, Neo must return to the Matrix and confront the agents,
super powerful computer programs devoted to snuffing out Neo and the
entire human rebellion.So as story and plot goes it is really cyberpunky and futuristic like.
When i was watching it i felt like The Matrix was a Cyberpunk film with
everyone wearing shades and leather jackets. It felt really futuristic.
Nevertheless the plot was really good and kept me really on the edge of
my seat. The Characters each had a different personality and fit into
the story well.Acting. Really well done. Keanu Reeves does his "Hi I'm Keanu Reeves"
acting by standing,staring and blinking and people just go up and
admire him like artwork. Lawrence Fishburne is ace as Morpheus and one
of the best bad asses i have seen on the screen in a while. The others
are mediocre but the star of the show goes to Hugo Weaving as Agent
Smith. I love Smith as a baddie. Just his personality and presence on
screen was a complete stand out from the crowd.The action sequences were also original and impressive to
watch,especially the final scene between Agent Smith and Neo. If you
haven't seen the sequels then they have more in the future. The slow
motion stuff is also well shot and well documented into the film. The
Special Effects gave the film a personality in my eyes like no other
film did before.Overall what can i say. I enjoyed The Matrix now and i will certainly
get my teeth into Matrix 2 and Matrix 3 (Which i haven't seen
yet...except the ending)Overall Rating - 67% - B - *** Stars

******
15 July 2013
5
I do love the matrix, but is a very long and complicated film and every
time I have watched it, I have never got it, hopefully one day I will,
but I do recommend this film. There some very talented actors in this
film and they all play their roles very well. Not all of it is
complicated though, don't want to pull the film down because it is a
very good film and the director has a brilliant mind. Think you have to
be someone with a very intelligent brain to figure out which is the
real world and which one isn't. Overall this is a very good film, I
have only marked it down because I have never really understood the
film.

******
11 July 2013
10
Matrix is one of the greatest movies of all time. The way it was filmed
has changed the point of view of every movie since. The plot is good
and the cast is awesome but what defines this movie as a break-through
is definitely its special effects. By far they are the pillar of modern
movies FX. The characters are very likable and (specially our misunderstood Agent
Smith). The movie has lots of action scenes, romance and humor
momentum. Even though its sequels were not as good as this one, the excellence of
this single movie cannot be denied.

******
12 May 2013
9
Andy Wachowski and Lana Wachowski are not the greatest directors ever,
in fact most of their films are very unknown, but they really managed
to pull this one out of the bag, the idea of computer hacking and slow
motion parkour, dodging bullets, fist fighting action really made a
great film. But for such a film requires good actors, that's were Laurence
Fishburne comes in, Laurence Fishburne was and still is a great actor
and has stared in some sensational films.Although it unfortunately won no Oscars I still thoroughly enjoyed it.
Although I did enjoy the original 'Matrix' I found it went downhill
soon after.

******
31 March 2013
7
The Matrix is a movie made to last the time barrier and always be
relevant whenever the Sci-Fi genre is mentioned. The movie is a classic
and it is known majorly for its use of the visual effect known as
bullet time. It went ahead to win four Academy Awards for its Visual
Effect, Editing, Sound Mixing and Sound Editing. The story arc is one
that leaves you wondering and its ending is like beginning to many open
possibilities.The Wachowski brothers took the best of the best of the Sci-Fi genre
and an idea that never seems to stop plaguing the mind of many that one
day computers will be taking over. The movie is directed by the
brothers and produced by Joel Silver (who also produced Die Hard 1 & 2,
Lethal Weapon 1  4, V for Vendetta (2005) and Bullet to the Head
(2013)).The story arc is about a post apocalyptic future where humans were now
used as fuel to drive machines. The human race developed "THE A.I."
program, which in turn raged a war between it and its makers. In the
end the human race lost and there are being grown for fuel, their
brains are feed with ideas of a real life, while their minds live in a
world called The Matrix.There the human race is living their lives like they normally do not
knowing that the life they live is not real. The twist in this tale is,
some figured out and the last collection of humans most are those taken
out of The Matrix control live in a place called Zion. But there is a
prophesy that a certain man will come and save the humans from the
machines, and that man has been found by a man named Morpheus (Laurence
Fishburne) and his crew which include Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss). The
name of that man is Neo (Keanu Reeves) or as Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving)
calls him Mr. Anderson.The 1982 Disney movie Tron, was to me the main inspiration for the
movie, as it features lives in the grid, that is lives in a computer
system. Also The Matrix can be said to have drawn ideas from other
movies in the 90s like The Truman Show (1998) where Jim Carey's life
was being controlled by an external source and he was not the wiser,
also I believe they got inspiration from Alex Proyas Dark City (1998)
which like The Truman Show was done a year earlier . Also the fight
scenes can be said to have been drawn from Japanese animation (Anime)
which the Wachowski brothers took a likening into.After the huge success of this movie, the Wachowski brothers went ahead
to make two sequels (The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix Revolutions),
which were both released four years after in 2003. The Wachowski
brothers also further expanded the story with comic books, cartoons and
video games. The Matrix is a good movie; in fact it is a great movie
ranking high in any Sci-Fi list, the later Lord of the Rings trilogy
and then the Star Wars prequel trilogy, started the whole trilogy phase
that is now popular in Hollywood now a day.So it is best to get the above listed 3 trilogies.www.lagsreviews.com

******
28 March 2013
9
The Matrix is a fantastic movie with an outstanding story line,its
unbelievable how The Wackowski Brothers (now the Wackowski Siblings)
thought up this movie,its extremely different and strange,nothing just
anyone could and would come up with.Its the story why I love this
movie,I am not a huge fan of the cast,especially Keanu Reeves,I like a
lot of movies hes in,Neo is a fantastic character,and I also really
like Ted Logan,but I don't like him as actor,I feel like he just reads
his lines with no passion.Tom Cruise,Leonardo DiCaprio and Will Smith
where all approached to play Neo before Keanu Reeves,and I think they
would have done a much better job,there all terrific actors,especially
Will Smith,and they would have played Neo with passion.I like Neo
because hes a great character,not because of the actor who played him.Neo learns the truth about reality,and he is taken into the real
world,outside of the Matrix,where everyone sees things as they want to
see them.

******
23 March 2013
10
With all the imitations, spoofs, parodies, rip-offs and sequels that
have come from it, it is easy to forget just how groundbreaking 1999's
revolutionary film The Matrix really is. Yet even 15 years later, it
still has the power to amaze and shock as much as it did on the day of
release - power not wielded by many since, and certainly not the two
cash-inspired sequels.Back in 1999, the Matrix was a genuine original - something rarely seen
in the movies in the latter decades of the twentieth century. It was a
film that took such an interesting concept that it seems amazing that
it hadn't been done before, and coupled it with genuinely mind-blowing
special effects to produce something very special indeed.The story itself is almost so simple it's genius. The film's premise
rests on the idea that the entire world is an elaborate construct of
machines, and that we are unaware that the entire population of the
earth is simply plugged into a virtual reality which feeds the sentient
machines which now rule the earth. Those few who have escaped are now
able to re-enter this 'Matrix' at will, and bend its rules of gravity
and physics as one would bend the rules of a computer program. This
leads to spectacular shootouts, furiously fast fight scenes, jumping
and dodging that would put an Olympic triple jumper to shame, and all
of which featuring the now much-parodied slo-mo camera spinning that
became synonymous with the film itself, and which made it stand head
and shoulders (and knees and toes) above the rest.It seems odd to think that Keanu Reeves was not the first choice to
play the lead role of Neo. Usually being able to display only a single
emotion might be a drawback, but in the sepia-tinted dulled colours of
the grimy world of The Matrix, Reeves' constant single expression of
permanently mildly perturbed seems a perfect fit somehow, and the
thought of Will Smith's excessive personality in the lead role (as was
apparently the first choice) seems like a completely incongruous
thought now. Meanwhile Lawrence Fishburne's presence as a 'Morgan
Freeman-in-training' mentor with muscles role is perfect, while Hugo
Weaving's minimal yet menacingly effective turn as the villainous Agent
Smith nearly steals the show from the effects gurus' noses. His
understated delivery is at times positively chilling - in particular
his addressing of Reeves' Neo as 'Mr Anderson' in a manner ice-cool yet
dripping with malevolent intent. Interestingly now, this role seems
perfect preparation for him for his role in a second monumental trilogy
of films, as shades of his performance as Agent Smith are apparent in
his similarly brilliant role as Elrond in the similarly blockbusting
Lord of the Rings. It's just a shame that other roles aren't similarly
fleshed out - particularly Joe Pantoliano's potentially fascinating
role of 'Cypher' - leaving the central quartet as the only real roles
with significant screen time. Additionally, Carrie-Anne Moss lacks the
warmth and charm to be a convincing (and inevitable) love interest.Yet these are only relatively minor quibbles. Which brings us on to the
special effects themselves - which are, quite simply, the most visually
impressive since Terminator 2's T1000 morphing, if not ever. A number
of standout shots have made their way into popular culture - including
the camera-spinning freeze-in-midair kick which forms the standout part
of the opening scene. Having been imitated so much in numerous
subsequent comedies and spoofs such as Scary Movie and Shrek, their
impact has perhaps been diluted over time, but to go back and see the
shots in their original context still will transport an audience to a
state of wonder that only the cinema can bring.The Matrix is a film that is always well worth a revisit - whether it
has been a few weeks or a few years since you have last seen them. It's
just unfortunate that it raised the bar so high that few films were
able to subsequently raise their game enough to match it - including
two average, serviceable but pale-in-comparison sequels that inevitably
thought that more equals better. But as a stand-alone film, The Matrix
is one that will stand the test of time, and will no doubt come to
define the era in the way that classics such as Casablanca, Gone With
The Wind and The Godfather have defined theirs.A true masterpiece.

******
19 March 2013
8
In its basic formula The Matrix is a more than typical teen adventure
for all those who want to escape in a world where you can look cool,
and gain superpowers, and fight a shady organization that enslaves the
world, and get the girl. Throw in a convenient power up just for the
sake of winning when everything feels lost and you have a cheesy
fighting shonen anime to win the kid audience.As cheesy as it is, it has a very high budget that makes all the above
to look marvelous. It has famous actors, cool clothes, detailed
machinery, attention to physics, and lots of cinematics such a slow
motion, big explosions, and shrapnel falling all over the place. That
is enough to win all those who seek fancy visuals and shallow
entertainment. It also has dozens of symbolisms and allusions to philosophy and
religion that really make you think about the meaning of life, god,
freedom, and all those existentialist stuff. That is enough to offer a
superficial depth to win all the wannabe brainiacs. Oh but wait, did I just call it superficial? Why yes I did; because it
is. All the above elements are just fan service and despite all the
attempts to make it intellectual, it fails in the longrun. And by
longrun I mean the next movies which try to expand the concept, only to
open more plot holes and inconsistencies as it goes on and on. By the
time the final showdown took place in the third film, I just didn't
care anymore about the outcome, and even the epilogue was
disappointing. Anyways, The Matrix is philosophical first, action second, and sci-fi
third. There is a bit of everything in it to please anyone who doesn't
try to think too much of how plausible are all the stuff that happen in
it; in-logic or not. It managed to be something very few films managed
to achieve over the years and it is a high recommendation. Could they
have made it better? Sure; but the point was to have fun and think a
bit and not to go kamikaze on hard-science.

******
21 February 2013
10
At first Excuse me to my bad English. The Andy Wachowski, Lana
Wachowski really did excel themselves with this movie.It's a brilliant movie on a number of different levels - the directing
is excellent. The camera work is great. The visuals are stunning. The fight is A++. Acting is executed with style and conviction, and the plot is truly
inspired. It's really hard to use enough superlatives on this movie! I think this film Teach Indian film how to create action movie. Till
now many action sequence of Indian film inspired from this movie.

******
1 December 2012
10
In a world where humans are nothing but slaves a group of people trying
to confront their fate by means of anarchic violence against authority.I lived my youth in 90s and I can tell you that alongside with Fight
Club, Matrix summarizes my generations' state for the relevant period.
That's why I think The Matrix is not a philosophical piece of cinema
but rather an allegorical one. Also, What Morpheus did was not a
religious act, even if he hadn't known it yet. Yes, there is a fate
that is to be destroyed. But that fate comes from AI. When you are no
longer born but rather genetically engineered and grown by elaborate
machines, and you live your entire life in a simulation whose rules are
built by the needs of AI, this is no longer a fate that we used to
phrase in everyday life; this is a fate that is built and controlled by
the physical authority. That's why a program called the oracle has the
calculation power to predict the future of Matrix and the individuals
connected to it. The connection between humans and AI fortunately
brings a hopeful way out for the humans namely an anomaly or Neo.
Somehow a human called Neo has the power to control The Matrix. I
interpret this as an error caused during the growing process or the
lifetime spent in Matrix which resulted from a special code that is
written to his DNA or in the other case to his mind.For me, entire film is about accepting the possibility of lack of free
will and the relentless war to restore it.After all;What is the Matrix?- Control.

******
7 July 2012
7
The movie itself is unapologetic postmodern science fiction, which
means that it rips off every sci-fi source in existence. This is
because most of its target audience doesn't even know the Enterprise
had a captain before Picard. This is lucky for them, because when
Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) tries to convince Neo (Reeves) that he
has the ability to control his reality.This whole Matrix thing seems a lot like "Dark City" in both story and
theme. In order to convince Neo that he's crucial in their battle to
reveal the Matrix to everybody, Morpheus and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss)
take him to an Oracle. Constant references to the Oracle reek of the
constant references to The Force in "Star Wars," which means that after
about five minutes you hope the next person to mention the Oracle is
accidentally decapitated.There's also a ton of John Woo gun fights and Jackie Chan martial
arts-type stuff, except that Reeves looks so stiff in the fight scenes
you wonder if his next gig might be Tomb Raider IV.Not great but for its time this film was good.

******
29 March 2012
6
The Matrix has excellent special effects, incredible action scenes,
mixed acting, an original premise, BUT. . . a somewhat weak story.Fishburne is quite good; and this movie was MADE for Keanu. I found the
screenplay threadbare, giving the actors not enough meat to work with.
The premise is marginal and a bit watered down to make it as science
fiction. The story and direction leave holes big enough to drive trucks
through.About half way through the movie disbelief kicked back in and the film
seemed merely a platform for special effects. In comparison, Mel
Gibson's Payback is a more intriguing and better directed
revenge/action flick, and Johnny Nmemonic (also featuring Reeves) has
better Cyberspace science fiction.This is a violent film, which I have little problem with in general,
but here it's particularly De-humanizing which I *do* object to.
Payback is extremely violent and profane, but the violence is focused
and meaningful in that it serves to advance the plot and has human
consequences. The violence in The Matrix blends a cartoon-like
disregard for its consequences with an elitist notion that it's all OK
because the human victims have been brainwashed by the bad guys and are
essentially pawns in a larger game. Violence should have a moral
dimension or at least move the plot if it's to have meaning. If not, it
desensitizes viewers to violence which can't be a healthy thing for
society.

******
26 February 2012
10
The Matrix is a science fiction action film written and directed by
Larry and Andy Wachowski. The film stars Keanu Reeves, Laurence
Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Joe Pantoliano, and Hugo Weaving.The film
depicts a future in which reality as perceived by most humans is
actually a simulated reality created by sentient machines to pacify and
subdue the human population, while their bodies' heat and electrical
activity are used as an energy source. Upon learning this, computer
programmer "Neo" is drawn into a rebellion against the machines,
involving other people who have been freed from the "dream world" and
into reality.Also,it contains many references to the cyberpunk and
hacker subcultures; philosophical and religious ideas such as René
Descartes' evil genius, the Allegory of the Cave, the brain in a vat
thought experiment; and homages to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland,
Hong Kong action cinema, spaghetti westerns, dystopian fiction, and
Japanese animation.What if virtual reality wasn't just for fun, but was being used to
imprison you? That's the dilemma that faces mild-mannered computer
jockey Thomas Anderson in The Matrix. It's the year 1999, and Anderson
(hacker alias: Neo) works in a cubicle, manning a computer and doing a
little hacking on the side. It's through this latter activity that
Thomas makes the acquaintance of Morpheus, who has some interesting
news for Mr. Anderson -- none of what's going on around him is real.
The year is actually closer to 2199, and it seems Thomas, like most
people, is a victim of The Matrix, a massive artificial intelligence
system that has tapped into people's minds and created the illusion of
a real world, while using their brains and bodies for energy, tossing
them away like spent batteries when they're through. Morpheus, however,
is convinced Neo is "The One" who can crack open The Matrix and bring
his people to both physical and psychological freedom.For those who have been waiting for movies to catch up with the graphic
possibilities of comic books, wait no longer: The Matrix is among us.It
is a must-see among genre fans, especially guys in their teens and 20s,
for whom the script's pretentious mumbo-jumbo of undergraduate
mythology, religious mysticism and technobabble could even be a plus
rather than a dramatic liability.Aside from that,the balance between
blockbuster-style action sequences and in-depth philosophical
undertones that I've always admired about it.Overall,it is an ingenious
combination of Hong Kong action, ground-breaking Hollywood FX, and an
imaginative vision together with an apocalypse of kinetic joy that will
truly describe watching this film.

******
4 August 2011
9
IMDb Top 250: 23The Matrix is an unreasonably awesome movie. The stunts, the effects,
the black suits and shades- The Matrix is dripping awesomeness. But
unlike many other action and sci-fi movies, The Matrix has brains.The plot of The Matrix is like Terminator for the internet generation.
Man created machine, machine rebelled, machine won. Human survivors
fight machines in a constantly dark, post-apocalyptic world. But the
machines created the matrix, a giant computer program where the farmed
humans' minds live their 'lives'. It's complicated, but it all makes
sense. The Matrix's plot demands brain and eye attention.The actors are perfectly chosen. Keanu Reeves in a role where he's
supposed to be quiet and badass? Perfect! He was made to be Neo.
Laurence Fishborne aces the wise leader, and he busts his chops during
the interrogation. Hugo Weaving is really the show stealer though: his
Agent is so menacing, and when he opens up to Morpheus, it's very
tense.This is an action movie, and boy is there action. The martial arts
scenes are so incredible, and the insanity allowed because of the
setting makes them even better. Running air kicks? Punches that break
walls? It's all cool in the matrix. And the gunfights: the iconic lobby
shootout, and the even more iconic bullettime gives The Matrix identity
in a sea of sci-fi.The action is boosted by the success of the effects. Agent bullet
dodging, the explosions, the rippling bullets, your jaw will drop. The
"fluff effect" in the lobby is so cool too. It made me wonder why this
has never been seen in 3D. Also, the CGI machines are terrifying and
realistic.You should see The Matrix, benchmark of sci-fi films for the past
decade. Matching brawn with brain, you really can't miss this modern
classic. 9.4/10

******
18 July 2011
10
The Matrix is a 1999 science fiction-action film written and directed
by Larry and Andy Wachowski, starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne,
Carrie-Anne Moss, Joe Pantoliano, and Hugo Weaving. It was first
released in North America on March 31, 1999, and in Australia on April
8, 1999, and is the first installment in the Matrix series of films,
comic books, video games, and animation.Neo is trained as a member of the rebellion. A socket in Neo's skull,
formerly used by the machines to connect him to the Matrix, allows
knowledge to be uploaded directly into his mind. In this way, he is
able to quickly learn numerous martial arts styles, and impresses the
crew with his speed when sparring in the rebels' virtual reality
"construct" environment. Further training introduces Neo to the key
dangers in the Matrix itself. He learns that fatal injuries suffered
within the simulation will also kill one's physical body in the real
world. He is warned that the Agents he previously met are powerful
sentient computer programs with the ability to possess the virtual body
of anyone still directly connected to the Matrix, whose purpose is to
seek out and eliminate any threats to the simulation. Morpheus is
confident that once Neo fully understands his own abilities as "the
One", the Agents will be no match for him.

******
26 June 2011
10
This movie has got to be one of the best films ever made. It has it all
- great characters, good actors, plenty of action and incredible
special effects. The plot is brilliant - everyone is living inside a
computer programme so nothing is actually real? You would need a superb
director, great actors and a bucket load of fantastic special effects
to carry that off. However, this film manages it brilliantly. One of my
favourite scenes is when Neo stops the bullets dead in front of him -
absolutely legendary. The stunts in this movie are breathtaking, and
despite how unrealistic the plot is, you find yourself wanting to
believe it! This is one of the films that everyone has to see at least
once in their lives - no matter what their taste in film is. A definite
ten out of ten.

******
23 June 2011
9
The first time I heard about The Matrix was at the age of 9 from
another student in the playground. As you can probably imagine it was
very hard to piece together what my friend was telling me, trying in
vain, drawing on all the communication skills a typical 9 year old to
explain what the Matrix was. He'd be telling me about "The Matrix being
the real world but not The real world" and going into it through phone
boxes,and characters with unique sounding names like "Morpheus" and
"Trinity" and the Agents who are trying to kill them etc. It was a
frustrating puzzle trying to make sense of what he was trying to tell
me but, By the time the bell had rung and the teacher had called us all
in for a remaining afternoon of sitting on little chairs being bored,
my imagination had been gripped. I could not stop thinking about it. The fact that The Matrix had a 15 age certificate certainly helped fuel
the fascination of Primary school audiences, however as an adult who
has now seen it many times it is still, without doubt one of the
coolest films to ever emerge from America. It's value lies not merely
in the ascetically stylistic characters, locations, weapons,fight
scenes, vehicles, set pieces, "bullet time" (!!) but also in it's huge
abstract, philosophical depth. The "true meaning" of almost every
aspect of the film is constantly still debated in internet forums,
books, and audience conversation. It is one of those films that turns
audience members of all walks of life into philosophers, debating
valuable concepts and ideas and enriching conversation. "How can we be
sure we are not living in a reality similar to The Matrix?" is perhaps
the most obvious question that springs to mind as a result of watching
the film. Personally,as a nine year old boy with an overactive
imagination and tenancy to take things a bit too literally, I lay in
bed after seeing The Matrix for the first time, having real doubts
about the nature of reality. It is very similar to the more recent,
Inception in the respect that it can remind you, as a human being, how
little you really know about the universe and your place in it. If
everything we experience is dependant on our senses, how can we know
that our senses are not deceived, missing something,or unable to detect
certain phenomenon. If The Matrix was "real" we would not be able to
tell. There is also the question of wherever we would want to leave the
safety of the illusion for a harsher reality, or remain in the illusion
to escape reality (like Cipher).Without doubt,if we were living in a
Matrix like illusion, then the illusion is better for film stars, rock
stars, and other social groups than the oppressed working class that
Marx describes. Some people would want to exit or shut down the
illusion more than others. Another very interesting part of the film is when Agent Smith mentions
"going to church" as part of the experience of being inside The
Matrix.If our world was an illusion and religion is a part of our
world,does that imply that religion is an illusion. If we woke up, how
can we be sure that we didn't wake up in a world where we still don't
know whether God is real and we still don't know the true reality of
the world we wake up in. Maybe when Morpheus frees people from The
Matrix he is really only waking them up from one illusion into another.
There are endless philosophical questions and considerations like this
that can result from discussing this film. Films that inspire philosophical questioning enrich life with new
perspectives to view the world. Films that do this with such
uncompromising style, and excitement are quiet rare. It has to be
pointed out that The Matrix is not merely a philosophical exercise but
on the surface it is also makes hugely enjoyable viewing. In short,The
Matrix has everything. The escapism into a science-fictional world with
it's own history, Sharp characters, mind blowing stunts, philosophical,
and even emotional depth that is displayed through the relationship
between characters. It is a perfect, powerful film with many elements
that do it credit.

******
14 June 2011
10
this film is excellent because of its superb fighting and jumping in
the air kind of stuff. the film starts of by trinity having a
conversation with cypher telling her that they were going to kill Nero.
then the film goes on until Nero meets trinity and tells him his life
is unfortunately in danger, and so... Nero goes to see Morpheus. now
this beginning tells the audience who and what these people are and
what they do for a living!later on in the film we find out that Nero is
the "one" which is a brilliant breakthrough. erm... whats good about
this film is that is well presented, well choreographed and suburb
music. (the end credits is the best music on the matrix films by the
way). that just about sums it up, so i hope you contribute to my
review.

******
20 March 2011
10
Keanu Reeves, playing Neo, discovers that he is the key to breaking the
world free of a computer-generated "reality" by destroying the Matrix.
Neo is a talented hacker working a dead-end tech job while searching
for Morpheus, played by Laurence Fishburne, who can tell him the truth
about the "Matrix". Through a series of mysterious communications and
awkward moments with Trinity, played by Carrie-Ann Moss, Neo finds that
the world is really only a computer-generated world and that reality is
really the ravaged Earth now controlled by the computers that have
created the Matrix. While this movie has a lot of action and
cutting-edge effects work, the story drives it more than anything else.There is one true Alice in Wonderland moment in The Matrix as Neo makes
the transition from the imaginary world to the real world, reaching
through a mirror and becoming encased in the silver. There are many
surreal moments throughout the film, but this one moment introduces you
to the effects that one can expect throughout the film. Throughout the
film there are two noticeable methods being used to enhance the story
and make the film unique. First, the Wachowski brothers have not only
created a unique story, but have created an innovative filming
technique that will probably be copied in every major action/sci-fi
film for the foreseeable future. The action sequences were not only
accentuated by the stop-motion method of filming, but also by the 3-D
quality created throughout the action sequences. Added to that drama is
the fact that all of the camera angles within the movie serve a
purpose, not only creating focus but adding to the story by matching
words to action. Lighting is also used successfully throughout the film
in order to demonstrate the changes between the matrix world and the
real world. The real world, though never perfect, is lit more brightly
and colorfully than the real world. Part of this is because of the fact
that the real world is underground, but I think that the addition of
this and the use of color in the matrix world also tie into the fact
that there are those in the real world who dream of going back to their
pretend lives, unaware of reality. The real world is harsh and rough,
which is denoted by consistent dim lighting no matter what the setting
is, giving it an industrial feel throughout. The entire movie is worthy of watching over and over again, but what
makes The Matrix truly noteworthy is that it combines a great plot line
with unique filming techniques that surpass most science-fiction films.
There is action,drama, fantasy, and romance all rolled up into one
leather and latex ball, creating a story that will always be relevant
in the tech world with effects that the next generation will study in
school.

******
20 March 2011
8
Matrix was, in many ways, the minor "Star Wars" of the 90s: an
unoriginal and arch-repeated story, but told and crafted in such a
creative way, that it works!. The story of the "chosen one" in his path
to discover his powers is older than graphite pencils, but, the visuals
and the setting are impressive enough to makes us forget that and enjoy
the ride. Keanu Reeves is a great choice for the role of "Neo", and the
supporting cast is good enough also. The story is crafted as a mystery
at the beginning, and then begins the classic "hero's journey". And, at
the end (spoilers!), unsurprisingly, the character becomes a
"superhuman", inside the Matrix and kills the bad dude: a nice closed
loop, which doesn't leave much space for sequels, which is the main
reason of why the following movies in the "saga" are just a shameful
mess.But, Matrix, as a stand-alone film, is very good. The only problems I
can think of, are some issues with the acting (Carrie Ann Moss was
somewhat dull), the over-pretentiousness of the plot: it took itself
way too seriously, being as it was, just an unoriginal sci-fi collage,
and the visual style grew old too fast, now a days the characters look
dressed as a bunch of emo-kids. But, those are details and nitpicking.
It's a good, intense and entertaining action flick. Check it out.8/10

******
18 February 2011
10
We've had many great Sci-Fi movie's like "Star Wars" and "Blade
Runner". But, "The Matrix", is one of the greatest Sci-Fi movies ever
made.The story is interesting. The cast was great. Keanu Reeves does a nice
job as Neo. Hugo Weaving does a great job as the evil, Agent Smith.But what make's this movie incredible, are the special effects and the
action scene's. They were really amazing.I can't say anything else because this movie was really amazing from
start to finish.Overall, "The Matrix", is a great movie and definitely worth watching.

******
22 December 2010
9
All the reviews if this has Buddhistic messages. I'm not sure,
especially if you watch all the 3 episodes, I'd say this is more of
Christianity based movie, with all the concept of Zion taken from Sion,
and the sacrifice of Neo in the Revolutions part. Great movie, its not
just thought provoking, but its about spiritual life and its totally
real, just put into the computer based shell. You wont really
understand it, unless you have a slight view on where its taken from
and what the purpose of it is. I give it one less star cause I think it
could be in other genre than action, but I agree that action has masses
of viewers and so it is OK to take that step, kinda to make people
watch it.

******
16 December 2010
10
This was a very interesting film. I plan on seeing it again, and I
don't often see films more than once.The film rightly questions our view of "reality," and asks "what is
Real?" like a few other recent films of the past few years (The Truman
Show, Dark City), but the characters themselves never leave their own
dualism. That is to say, we are to accept the "resistance" as _real_,
and life in the cocoons as unreal. The heroes don't realize that they
are merely abandoning one "drama" for another. What would have been
VERY interesting would have been if, at the end of the film, we
discover that the heroes never really left their cocoons in the first
place, and that the whole struggle was merely another virtual drama
induced by the Machine to keep the heroes happy.It also would have added to the dramatic tension if the Agents were
portrayed as "good" guys rather than evil automatons. I.e., they want
humanity to be happy and are willing to let us keep our brains intact
and allow us to live out any kind of virtual fantasy we like as long as
they are able to feed off of our electrical energy and, eventually, our
bodies. If the Agents had under-minded the heroes' faith in their
"resistance" reality, there would have been more emotional tension as
they would have to ask themselves if they really want to keep fighting
or just relax and give in. The deck would not be so neatly stacked in
favor of struggling.After all, that's basically the way it is in duality. You can exchange
one virtual drama for a million others, but we all get eaten at the
end. During the film, I wondered to myself what a realized sage (like
Ramana for instance) would have done if he had suddenly realized that
he wasn't really sitting on a mountain but was in fact lying comatose
in a liquid-filled cocoon having a dream that he was a sage, while
mechanical spiders were sucking off his vital bodily fluids and
electrical energy. I suspect it wouldn't make any difference to such an
individual.

******
12 October 2010
10
This is a story centered on two worlds: the real, which is destroyed
and unable to live through, and The Matrix seems a normal world but
into the people's minds. This has been created to let the people live
out of the war. But there is a group, called "The Resistance", which
lives in a nave and knows the reality. They have been expecting for the
one, who, supposedly, has powers to control The Matrix. His name is
Neo, and with the group's help he finds these powers. It s a good story
to think about. The movie lets us on thinking which one is the real
world. Are we living in a world like Matrix and connected to a virtual
game? We do not know if the real life is in The Matrix and The
Resistance is a group of mad people. But we can also think that The
Matrix does not exist. It is probable that we will not understand why
the group does not want to live in The Matrix if the real world is a
disaster and they used to live well. There is a lot of fantasy in
almost all the movie. I would not recommend it to people who hate the
fantastic stories, because it has bad science fiction. You should try
watching other science fiction movies which are more believable.

******
3 October 2010
10
In this film we were introduced to The Matrix, a virtual future planet
where the people are controlled by robots. The people are connected to
some machines and live in a virtual world. Neo, in his virtual life,
tried to understand some things and he received a message in his
computer, that said: "Wake Up Neo, The Matrix has you Follow the white
rabbit". This message helped Neo to know about the Matrix and found
people that knew about it. The acting was good, the actors and actress
played their characters very believably. The plot is good because it
has a great director and producers. However, the special effects were
not so credible because the technology used in the film was old than
the new effects and techniques of production. I disappointed with the
effects, the plot and the acting was good but the film was ruined by
the effects, so I would not recommend it.

******
6 September 2010
8
There are few movies that establish a new set of boundaries or
geometrical growth spurts in the development of movies and as such The
Matrix is one of them. This otherwise standard, predictable sci fi
movie, however, incorporates an out of the box premise along with a
dazzling array of special effects, especially dealing with martial
arts, along with a twist or double-cross that is layered within this
compact, consistently, inconsistent sci fi action thriller that makes
its mark in sci fi history and movies in general. The Matrix
establishes itself among a list of movie standards such as: Jaws
(1975), popular mainstream horror movie and was preceded by Psycho
(1960) and The Birds (1963), and more recently 1408 (2007).Ghost Busters (1984), a mainstream fantasy, comedy, horror movie.Speed (1994), mainstream action thriller, comedy drama.Wait Until Dark (1967), mainstream psychologal thriller.Dances with Wolves (1990), historical docu-drama.Spirited Away (2001), fantasy.Moulin Rouge (2001), musical.

******
28 August 2010
10
spoiler alert: This is like the 5th time I've seen this movie and i am
still noticing new symbolism... the oracle tells Neo that he is not the
one... "being the one is like being in love, you know it with every
fiber in your being." she also tells him that he will have a choice- to
save his own life, or to save Morphius's life. Now you would think that
if he knew he was the one, then he would save himself for the greater
good... but it is when he realizes that he is the one, that he decides
to save Morphius when he comes to that decision. "there is a difference
between knowing the path, and walking the path." the oracle told Neo
that "one of them was going to die." but he changed fate, he took it in
his own hands to save them both because he knew he was the one and that
he could do it. The oracle didn't tell him that she knew he was the
one, because it had to be his choice, his realization.

******
14 August 2010
10
This groundbreaking film is all about style. Laden with astonishing
visual and sound effects, it became an instant hit worldwide. While the
plot may be on the complex side, this film scores in the area of
entertainment. It is a dark film, toying with the idea that humans are
like batteries, acting as slaves to fuel power for the 'machines'. No
one has ever developed a concept so abstract at first thought, only to
surprise people with the ingenuity of it.The Matrix is technically impressive, bagging four Oscars. There are
moments of great editing, e.g. the 'rushy and tense' sequence at the
end of the film when Neo (Keanu Reeves) is running away from the
agents. You could almost feel yourself shouting for Neo to run faster.
Though the soundtrack gets way too 'pop' at times, it is still
effective, especially the instrumentals. The signature sound of the
trumpet and horns blowing coupling to the slow-motion bullet time
sequences are the hallmarks of the Matrix.Acting is sub-standard though, but the script demands little
expressiveness from the cast. The Matrix is one of the best sci-fi
films to come out in the 1990s, bringing instant gratification to
viewers and critics alike. The Wachowski Brothers have given the world
something to talk about for years, both in terms of the Matrix concept,
as well as the technical brilliance in exhibition. Strongly
recommended.SCORE: 9.5/10 (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved!

******
11 August 2010
8
This is a review of some of the philosophical elements of the film. If
that aspect didn't interest you, stop here. If you are the brainy type
who is interested in quibbling, though, or are simply curious, then
read on.Before I start ranting, I just want to say that I enjoy this film
enormously, unrealistic dialogue and not very deep characterization
notwithstanding. Great fx/action sequences, good acting, exciting plot,
and it's a the best vehicle for introducing philosophy ideas and themes
to the uninitiated that Hollywood has ever produced (Malick's 'Thin Red
Line' that came out at about this time is also very philosophical, but
not at such an overt level). That said, there is a hopeless hodgepodge of schools of thought here
that either just don't necessarily mix well or are blatantly
conflicting. I was also a bit disappointed with the audio commentary track (on the
blu-ray edition) by philosophers Cornel West and Ken Wilbur  though,
again, the uninitiated would benefit enormously from it. West and
Wilbur (but especially West) spend way too much time talking about(and
revisiting) certain themes and not even mentioning certain other things
that I thought were central. As an example of the former, West overly discusses the theme that is
the most obvious and really does not need the amount of commentary that
it gets: that of multicultural/racial/gender-equality; since he is
primarily known for his writings on race, this is perhaps forgivable
since this is what he knows and is interested in, but in some cases he
reads his own interpretation into the film that almost certainly was
not the Wachowski brothers' intent. To paraphrase a case in point: at
one point he says that (echoing feminist schools of thought that are
popular in Academia these days) since Neo, the One, needs help from
Trinity in order to fully realize his potential, and thus he is not
completely 'one' without her, this film is really about the breakdown
of gender identity. West's point about Neo and Trinity being 'one' is
credible, as in Christian theology the father, son and holy spirit are
all one and the same being; but in line with the allegorical Christian
parallels in the film, its far more likely a unity based in the
romantic connection at the end, like a man and a woman becoming one
through marriage, rather than any notions of gender breakdown (while it
is true that, for survival purposes, the women fight and aren't
particularly feminine, the reverse is not true  the males are never
unmasculine, and there are no Lady Macbeth types). As far as skipping over material, in the very beginning there is a
direct allusion to the contemporary social theorist Baudrillard (when
Neo is making the exchange at his apartment, he is shown to be hiding
his discs in a book entitled 'Simulacra and Simulation') . Neither West
nor Wilbur even mentions this point, which I think is a significant
one, as it is the only direct reference to any philosophical figure,
past or present, in the trilogy. Moreover, it is an allusion that comes
into conflict with the clear-cut reality vs. illusion dichotomy that
(West and Wilbur DO mention) runs throughout the film (the
inconsistency is that Baudrillard thinks that modern technology has
created a simulation of reality in which we are all living, but there
is no deeper reality behind it  the illusion is all there is). Another problem with the film itself is the lack of resolution between
the main theme of the film (good, real humans vs. evil,
illusion-producing machines) and Agent Smith's monologue about humans
being parasites and machines being the more efficient 'cure' to which
good and evil don't apply  evolution is not only an amoral process,
but morality itself is a human social construction of which machines
have no concept, and no need. Smith makes a good point that not only
isn't satisfactorily answered, but it's the last bit of extended speech
in the movie (save Trinity's confession of love and Neo's closing
proclamation, neither of which is relevant to Smith's view), and is
then dismissed to make way for a final half-hour of continuous, nearly
wordless (though thrilling) action sequences.Wilbur mentions one specific inaccuracy: the famous 'there is no
spoon'line; it was inspired by a Zen Koan (a sort of logically
paradoxical parable) in which three monks are observing a flag waving
in the wind. The first says the flag is moving; the second says it is
not the flag that is moving, but the wind; the third says that neither
the flag nor the wind is moving, but only your mind. It's not exactly
right to say the spoon does not exist, merely that the spoon is not
separable from the mind.This is typical of the film: throwing a lot of not-well-understood
ideas together in a sloppy fashion. Wilbur himself is all about
synthesizing ideas, but here it is done very haphazardly. That's not to
say that a clever enough person can't spot holes in any argument, but
here it's like glancing up at a clear night sky. In a good story
(whether character-driven or action-driven) there's only enough time to
suggest ideas if it isn't to lag (as opposed to developing them), but
that doesn't mean those ideas should be on-the-surface inconsistent.Having gotten this off my chest, I realize that I am being overly
critical. This is a (very good) Hollywood film, a classic of its genre,
so to get as much as we did was a blessing.

******
4 August 2010
10
What if your world wasn't real? You are actually plugged into a
computer world that you think is real, and evil robots will soon use
you as an energy source for themselves.Just imagine waking up from a very long dream that felt like your life,
only to realise that you were actually living in a post-apocalyptic
world where all humans are either still sleeping or fighting to wake
others up. That is the world that Thomas Anderson (Neo) discovers. He
is a thirty- something guy with a boring office job who works by day,
and hacks computers by night. Then, he meets Morpheus, a mysterious man
that seems to be on a mission... a mission that involves Neo. On top of
all this, there's kung-fu, bullet dodgin' and ass-kickin'! The perfect
action/sci-fi film.

******
30 July 2010
9
The first Matrix has created something special. It is a movie packed
with action, great narrative. Combined with perfect music, great
camera, incredible action scenes but also quality acting it is breath
taking ride that I can watch again any time. The script seems to have a
lot biblical references which makes it even more interesting. I consider the movie to be true fairly tale for modern age. It is
certainly inspired by bible or many old time legends and mysteries but
this aspect also made the movie even more interesting and eye opening.I have to admit that I did not like the second one and I did not even
see the third part of the series yet but the first part remains on my
list of the best movies I ever seen.

******
11 July 2010
10
I bought The Matrix out of just pure curiosity, I had heard that it was
one of the best movies of all time in both effects and story. I
thought, "Yeah, it may be good, but the effects are probably outated
and the story will be really hard to follow." Not to mention, I had
seen so many spoofs of this movie, especially the bullet time sequence
so how could this movie live up to the ten years of hype.Well, it did, this movie was not only a smart sci-fi film, it was also
a hugely entertaining film as well.It's not 100% original, OK, I get it, that's seems to be the only
reason people dislike this movie.But you know what, just because it isn't one hundred percent original
doesn't mean it still can't be great. I loved the plot of this film, it
wasn't overly confusing, it's was smart, but easy to follow. The
effects are still amazing, I love the scene where he is being shot by
Mr. Smith and doges the bullets. Now I know why everyone wants to
parody it, because it looks freakin awesome. The characters are
likable, and there's a feeling of suspense.A lot of people hate the Matrix because it was called original. Well,
no, The Matrix wasn't the most original movie of all time when it came
out, and it sure isn't now, but it's still an amazing film.

******
30 June 2010
9
The fanboy cult that has since arisen around "The Matrix" makes me want
to not like it, but I do have to admit that the first installment in
the mind-bending sci-fi saga is pretty kick ass.I had to have my friends explain it to me, of course, but once they did
I thought it was one of the coolest premises ever conceived. "The
Matrix" is like "Pulp Fiction" -- in many ways, it defined the culture
of its time and has had a major impact on everything since. And it's
also in the same league as films like "2001: A Space Odyssey,"
"Terminator 2" and "Jurassic Park" that redefined what movie special
effects could do.The first sequel was incomprehensible and I haven't (and probably
won't) see the third film, but I like this one.Grade: A

******
24 June 2010
8
Wachowski brothers Andy and Lana create this mesmerizing sci-fi action
film with awesome up the ass visual effects, solid editing, and an
excellent cast. Keanu Reeves and Lawrence Fishbourne make a great team
as two righteous individuals who go on a journey into another world, as
they travel to the extent of visuals unimaginable.Keanu Reeves stars as a computer hacker named Neo who goes through a
weird series of incidents, and wines up in a different dimensional
world with a mysterious man named Morpheus, along with a group of other
people, as he learns the truth about mankind, and is shown a whole
other world beyond the eyes.Entertains you from beginning to end in a very bad ass way. Acting
performances aren't the best, along with the slanted story due to the
visuals, but doesn't bother you the least bit, if not just for a little
bit. Your too concentrated on the stunning visuals, and the terrific
editing, which is probably where this movie does best.Although it takes awhile for the action to start, its all worth it when
it finally kicks off, with insane action scenes that will get you all
pumped up. Clever choreography, with fighting techniques, as well as
shooting scenes included. Sound effects are awesome, and go great with
the action.I could go on forever, but in short, the visuals, action scenes, and
editing are the three best things to look for in this film.

******
5 June 2010
10
Wachowski brothers bring to us a world you can never imagine,a world of
human beings living as a program,some FBI agent as virus & a few people
trying for their survival in a world known as The Matrix.Enter the
Matrix.Such fascinating concept & such thrilling action.Scenes of utter
slow motion & fascinating gun fighting just stands out as the
best.Visually stunning and mostly would be known for its fast pace as
well as some terrific fight scenes.Acting is top notch with the apt
casting.Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus leads from the front.Carrie-Anne
Moss as trinity is refreshing.Keanu Reeves as Neo was the chosen one &
he proved it by doing proper justice to his role.And who can forget
Agent Smith,absolutely breathtaking dialog delivery.Stunning
cinematography & compelling camera-work just amazes the audience.Just
wish it to be released in 3D.That would be just simply
amazing.Wachowski brothers brought to us The Matrix Reloaded as well as
The Matrix Revolution.They are unique but they wont be remembered like
The Matrix.Surely Wachowski brothers have attained epitome through The
Matrix.We surely will remember Wachowski Brothers for this,until the
end of time.

******
2 June 2010
8
Wow. Combine a spectacular effects show, and great science-fiction, and
you have this sensational actioner from the Wachowski brothers.The plot is very clever - don't try and think about it too much though.
Original and mind-boggling, it is unfortunately missing an ending to
match.Keanu is ultra-cool as the talented Neo, and the support, including
Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss, are equally slick in all black
get ups. Hugo Weaving has an absolute ball with his evil Agent Smith.
"The Matrix" contains some fantastic action scenes!Saturday, March 11, 2000 - DVD

******
12 May 2010
10
The Matrix is a really complex movie in which every names and sentences
have their metaphoric meanings. Until I was explained about the movie,
I didn't really understand it,honestly it was simply kung fu! However,I
can see now its truly depth.The philosophic idea "Brains in a vat" says that we can never be aware
whether we are human beings with corpse and mind who live in our lovely
planet, or single minds connected to computers that send to our brains
all the information to cause on us feelings and emotions. By taking in
consideration the latter explanation we fall into a skepticism since we
have no idea of how we can find the truth, moreover, we've no idea
which reality is the truth. This idea is also quite similar to
Descarte's malin génie. According to the philosopher we can't be sure
of anything since there is a sort of an evil genius capable of making
us falling into mistake and also willing to do it. In this case the
Evil Genius (aka malin génie) has the same role as the computers in
"Brains in a vat".The movie The Matrix explores the same idea. Thomas Anderson (Neo) was
a computer hacker who thought to be living in a real world. However,
Morpheus and his crew come to the fantasy world (called the Matrix) to
rescue him. In this recent version the human beings are prisoners of
Artificial Intelligence in order to supply energy to the machines.
Humans are connected to computers who integrate them in a fantasy world
or a dream called The Matrix. The machines are the computers and the
Evil genius simultaneously who make us living in dream. After Morpheus rescuing Neo (anagram for the ONE), he explains him how
Matrix works and how to survive inside it: the more you believe it
doesn't the exist, more are the rules you are capable of breaking. If
you believe you're living your own dream you can do whatever you want.
This is how Neo learns Kong Fu, stop bullets and reborns after being
killed. This idea is also present in the classic Alice in Wonderland. After some research I started understanding most of the movie but the
Smits were still a mystery for me... I didn't take much longer until i
figure it out. The agents are the ones who avoid people of finding the
truth. As soon as someone starts to ration the agents interfer in order
to kill them and keep the ignorance around.What else can we say about the movie? Well a lot more apart from it
being a trilogy which includes a lot more information and symbols.
Definitely this is a must see movie who will provide you a wonderful
time as it has the perfect balance between action, plot and philosophic
context.

******
3 May 2010
10
This movie is not just a great movie but I have never seen a movie this
great. It is definitely a Sci fi movie but it is a lot different than
the other Sci fi movies I have ever seen because of the fact that they
use guns with bullets in them when they go into the matrix. Despite
what people are going to say about this I myself thought that this
movie was better then alien and the terminator, I mean these are great
movies and everything but this movie defies a new genre of sci fi shoot
em up. There is another movie that I would say that you should watch if
you liked this and that is equilibrium( this is another movie in this
same genre). A lot of people tell me that this movie has a very had to
follow story and I have to agree with that somewhat. The first time I
saw this movie I was a bit confused but after seeing it a few time it
definitely becomes easier to understand. All I all I think that you
should go out and watch this movie right now it is mind blowing

******
17 April 2010
9
"The Matrix" is the best action movie has ever made on my list. When
"The Matrix" was released on its time, thiz movie contributes many
breakthrough methods for cinema world. The movie is directed by Larry
and Andy Wachowski who was under radar all these times. They are only
known as small budget film Directors in "Bound" (1996). Later, "The
Matrix" has two more back-to-back sequels which are "Matrix Reloaded"
and "Matrix Revolution" in 2003. You can almost classify the stars in
thiz movie as B-Class Actors, if it's not because of Keanu Reeves, but
still the outcome is beyond the expectations. Each of the characters
like Neo (Keanu Reeves), Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), Trinity
(Carrie-Anne Moss) , even the villain Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving) have
already become a legendary icon in the industry. One of the strengths
of thiz movie is the phenomenal action scenes. The fight scenes are
something new and different, which is later followed by other movies.
Behind that extraordinary fight scenes are experienced Martial Arts
Choreographer Yuen Woo Ping. Woo Ping is the man behind "Crouching
Tiger, Hidden Dragon" (2000), "Kill Bill" (2003),"The Forbidden
Kingdom" (2008) and even Jackie Chan's Kung Fu classic like "Snake in
the Eagle's Shadow" (1978). His experiences in a lot of Asian movies
made him effective. The movie definitely exceeds our imagination. As a
matter of fact, many people do not understand entirely the story of
"The Matrix", there are still many blank spots to be answered.
Eventually, the movie is filled with countless great philosophies
inside. It seems like Wachowski Brothers have discovered how to make a
brilliant concept for the story by fetching the philosophies from some
religions. The essence is not that simple as it looks, actually we will
always have something new every time we watch it over and over again.
"The Matrix" is a smart movie and will always be one of my favorite
movies of all-time! Visit My Blog on JONNY'S MOVEE : http://jonnyfendi.blogspot.com

******
11 April 2010
10
Now, after 11 years, this movie is still one of my favorites. This is
the reason for this late review. When I went into this movie I had no
expectations. I knew nothing about the story, I did not see a trailer.
So I sat in the cinema and this movie blew my mind. A great story,
unbelievable special effects, perfect use of slow motion. I left the
cinema in pure excitement and went two days later again with a friend
who experienced the same. A week later I went with my wife and even she
thought that this movie is a masterpiece. In 1999 this movie was
groundbreaking and will remain as a milestone in cinematography. The
second and third part could not meet the expectations, but that is not
a problem, because this movie is perfect in itself.

******
13 March 2010
9
This movie is incredible. The special effects were awesome. The acting
was great, Keanu Reeves was great in particular. The story and script
were incredible. I love the idea for what the matrix is. I can't get
over the stunts. The bullet time thing was incredible and clever. But
there were flaws: 1. In the end, how did he come back? (I only saw it 3 times so I
haven't completely wrapped my head around it.) 2. How come the agents don't just erase the people from the system when
they cause trouble. Wouldn't the people die? But overall, a great, well written movie with superb acting and special
effects.

******
11 March 2010
10
The Wachowski brothers are very bright and borrowed lots of ideas from
different philosophies, religions ... etc.When I first watched Matrix I the first time, the first 20 mins of it
was the most thrill I had from movies.Little did I know it's idea was borrowed from Twilight Zone S01E02 -
Dream For Sale.Kudos to them to expand this little idea and apply it to elaborate
different ideas such as human & machine relationships, reality &
senses, ... etc.Kudos to the twilight zone writer Joe Gannon as well, that clip was
very entertaining & creative.

******
6 March 2010
10
okay so im guessing you all know the plot by now so im not going to go
over that all im going to say is that it has one of the best plots
ever!okay the action scenes are AMAZING!!! Seriously who knew Keanu reeves
could kick SO MUCH ass and the acting from Laurence Fishbourne is
spectacular the soundtrack kicks ass as well with songs from Marilyn Manson,The
Prodigy,Rage Against The Machine and Rob Zombie it really is quite
spectacularif you haven't seen this film Then SHAME ON YOU!!! get off your
computer get the nearest DVD store and buy it!!!story 10 out of 10 nothing to say but WOWsoundtrack 10 out of 10 briilliantAction 10 out of 10 people say the fight scenes are outdated They lie!! GO WATCH THIS FILM!!!!!!!!!

******
6 March 2010
9
I was hesitant to approach this film, as it seemed like a pointless,
overblown action film. Maybe it is all that, but it is also a great
film, and perhaps the most important film since The Battleship
Potemkin. It has a deceptively simple plot. Just another apocalyptic
robot rebellion. Still, it not only draws on biblical and mythological
stories, but it creates the fascinating concept of the Matrix. It blurs
reality lines between the various worlds in play, and uses all the
implications of artificial reality to its advantage in great visual
innovation. The Matrix used CGI and bullet-time in never-before-seen
ways that have already become clichéd. It came at the end of a 20-year
innovation starved era of film, and shocked the world with something
new. Who could forget Neo and Smith diving at each other, their guns
blazing? Who could forget Neo leaning backwards, dodging bullets,
sharing the screen with objects moving at impossible speeds, but
somehow making us forget that they were bullets? Perhaps most stunning
of all: who could forget Neo, to Uzis blazing, straight in front of
him, as he runs, cloak trailing, through a hell of flying tiles and
marble as untold numbers of bullets fly around him? These unforgettable
moments are the excuse for such overblown action. Finally, it is worth
mentioning that this film has one of the most perfect villains ever to
grace the screen. A demented but calm, crazed but intelligent, ruthless
but calculated agent known as Smith laughs, yells, and taunts his way
through his great lines filled with pregnant pauses. A perfect villain
for a messiah of a hero.

******
25 February 2010
10
Second Review on IMDb and had to pay my respects to one of the all time
best Sci-Fi flicks.I first saw the Matrix in theatres when it was first released. It blew
me away then and still does now.I gave it a 10 because if you were lucky enough to see this in
theatres..it was a treat, it was what going to the movies should be
about. A Sci-Fi movie that gets your mind racing, with action and depth
in the story..that leaves you totally satisfied at the end.The movie starts out with a bang and doesn't let up, it keeps you
guessing..right up until the end.The movie is set in a future where A.I has taken over the world from
humans, the only reason they were not totally eradicated was because
they need us for a power supply as the sun has been blocked out (by
chem trails) Humans grow in incubators, our body heat converts to
electricity in mega storage facilities were 100's of thousands of
humans are stored. They're brains are hooked up to virtual worlds,
where they go through the daily grind as per usual, having no idea
about the alternate and true reality.There is one last population of non battery human, they live miles
under the surface in an underground fortress city called Zion. They're
mission is to rescue more humans and protect Zion. They do this with an
Army / Navy of soldiers. 1 captain Morpheous believes there will be a
messiah to come and save them all. From there the story takes off.I highly recommend this move, it's action scenes were cutting edge in
1999, kung-fu fights, gun fights, cgi, it has everything.

******
28 November 2009
10
Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, and Carrie Anne Moss star in The
Matrix, one of the coolest, most inventive films ever. The Matrix
series must have taken a lot of thought. Clearly The Wachowski brothers
were thinking about a lot. Because The Matrix is a unique sci-fi film.I myself am not a fan of Mr. Reeves. I am still thinking about him from
Bill and Ted and how he tries to be serious. He tries to hide that
voice. But here I liked him. The Matrix makes computer hackers look
pretty pathetic. Well, they are pretty pathetic. Like the ones in Die
hard 4. Except these computer hackers aren't nerds. Hugo Weaving is awesome as
the villain of the trilogy. What am I saying? Weaving is awesome
anyways. As V from V for Vendetta or Agent Smith from The Matrix,
Weaving is great.The Matrix is probably the first films to ever show us such awesome
special effects. It's a shame what happened to the Wachowski's once the
trilogy ended. At least two out of three of the films were good. The
other one... well, it wasn't art but it was pretty entertaining. The Matrix is a sci-fi extravaganza that you will never forget. I hope
so at least. It's one film never to miss. I wouldn't say it's in my top
20 but it's awesome. The Matrix should never be forgotten. If you do
for some reason forget it, then you must have Alzheimer's. That wasn't
very nice. I was kidding. But be sure never to forget The Matrix. The Matrix:****/****

******
27 November 2009
10
Man, what a killer movie ! It had all the elements i was looking for,
the plot, the action, the character development and the theme was so
dark yet cool. The Matrix is a big ticket winner for me, the plot was
so well done that there were no flaws to this film, yes it may be
confusing sometimes, but the story is just so solid and tense, amazing
! the action, the slow motion bullet dodge, gun fight scene, fight
scenes and shoot out scenes, i was impressed how the directors this
film to stay this strong, visually spectacular.The characters are
explained so well, you know their personality, their beliefs and their
trust by the end of the film. It is an old movie, but the contrast will
never get old. a perfect action film to enjoy and the theme of the
movie never changed. Dark, mysterious, informative. That is why the
matrix served the other matrixes. its dark and solid plot theme. You
have to watch this or you'll regret it. One of the best movies of all
time.

******
16 November 2009
9
The Matrix is one of those films that defined a genre, since it's
release many other sci fi films have tried to emulate it and most have
failed. It has already stood the test of time and in my opinion has
reached cult classic status. Keanu Reeves and the rest of the cast work
well together and this is definitely an ensemble film, the writing is
fresh and original and the direction is very good for being the
directing teams second film (the first being Bound). The special
effects especially considering this was filmed in the nineties are
very, very good I want to specifically mention the scene involving Neo
being taken to the real world through the mirror. For sci fi fans this
is a definite own and for anyone else that hasn't seen it warrants at
least a rental. The sequels where no where near as good and pretty much
can be ignored but this one definitely needs to be seen. Remember The
Matrix has you!

******
8 November 2009
9
Without spoiling too much it's about this bloke called Neil who works
in an office. He has a dream about a black fella called Morpheo who
wants him to play a computer game called 'Matrix'.In a nutshell, in order for Neil to play this computer game, he has to
jump off a building and fire some guns in real life, before he's
allowed to be plugged in to the computer.In the computer world he has a magic coat, which stops bullets and can
make him fly. Basically Neil the office worker becomes Neil Matrix and
has to fight off some robots in the computer game.But what Neil or Morpheo DON'T know is that the police are after him
because of 'Matrix' (not sure why to be honest), but the police are
like magic detectives in black suits and they have EXACTLY the same
powers as Neil Matrix (and his magic friends).It's very hard to explain because of all the words in the film, but if
you like films about magic men in coats playing computer games and
getting chased by robots AND the police, then this is not to be missed.But Neil Matrix is the BEST character EVER played Keano Reeves (and
that's saying something!!!1!'

******
17 October 2009
8
Despite Keanu Reeves' incredible ability to utter the word "whoa" this
film set the benchmark for altered reality screenplays and amazing
special effects. The grainy green hue employed during scenes in the
"dream world" only added to the mystique that The Brothers Wachowski
wrote and directed. The plot is disguised but relatively simple from
early on as we learn reality through the eyes of Neo (Reeves), setting
up the clash of the superheroes. Led by Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne)
and Trinity(Carrie-Ann Moss) and their collective of real world
misfits, can Neo save humankind from being harnessed like Eveready
batteries? Is Neo "the one"? Is The Matrix a societal analogy of today
to be challenged or is ignorance bliss? With typical sci-fie
explanations that dominate the plot, don't worry about thinking too
much. Just enjoy the goth-tinted adventure

******
28 September 2009
10
Having studied history, religion, philosophy and the secret teachings
of the ancient world, I see so much more in The Matrix - than I did 10
years ago (when it first came out). The number of references to the
ancient understanding of this world is overwhelming, and the message of
the film is so immensely relevant to the world we live in today.As a famous writer once said "All political theater is always bad, but
all good theater is always political". A great quote, which absolutely
goes for the Matrix. I view the film as a GREAT metaphor to our
society, set in the light of our history. The characters journey is
well balanced, but at the same time, the profound message in it, hits
you as a train, if you keep your eyes open.To keep it short. As I see it, the main message in The Matrix: Human
beings are by the hour getting increasingly controlled, by a force
difficult to define. The level of control, works through money,
politics, governmental regulations, social rules, the media, and not to
say the least, religious control. By this we give away our greatest
asset, - our freedom, even the freedom freedom of thought. As Morpheus
said, - A prison for your mind.As said by Morpheus "What is the Matrix? Control! ... To keep us under
control, and turn a human being into this" - he shows Neo a battery.Thats what the system of today turns us into, a battery: A tax paying,
dept controlled, obedient "brick in the wall". To break free, is "the
narrow path, and is not pleasant, as "ignorance is bliss". But the
choice is up to you. The red or the blue pill? "You will know, as I
did. There is a difference between knowing the path, and walking the
path. - Morpheus

******
8 September 2009
8
Adding another comment of "The Matrix" (1999) in addition to the over
2'000 almost published ones may seem pretentious. However, as it
appears, most people have not understood that the "matrix" is that what
we, according to the movie, mistakenly take for "the" reality. It is
our ontology and our metaphysics, the space of the objects which we can
meet during the trip of our life. But again according to the movie,
this reality-matrix is nothing but an artificial construct produced by
a computer program, so that it is this "virtual" reality which produces
our "real reality". In addition, also the programmers which have
written these omnipotent programs, are nothing else but functions of
the program itself. So, the program is operated by its programmers, but
it also operates on the programmers. Such logical circularity is
excluded from any science which is based on two-valued Aristotelian
logic - and this all kind of science we are able to technically realize
by now. Insofar, this movie is "Science Fiction", but in a good sense
of the term.However, there is one of these long monologues of Laurence
Fishburn-Morpheus where he gives for Keanu Reeve's character - and the
audience - detailed metaphysical commentaries about the relationship of
the two levels of reality, the seemingly real reality produced by the
matrix and the indeed "real" virtual reality. Here, one has to say that
at least for Morpheus, the "real" (i.e. non-virtual) reality must
actually exist, because it serves him as a reference-basis for his
explications of the virtual reality which produced the "real"
matrix-reality. If it would not, then even Morpheus could not
differentiate, let's say, if the "virtual hull" of a crew-member of his
or his actual "realy body" has died. Multiplying the traditional
one-reality-ontology and metaphysics does not let dissolve this latter
concepts, in the opposite, the more realities are constructed, the more
important the "real" reality gets as a basis of reference. The reason
is that we cannot perceive a priori objects of any reality without
"filtering" them with our senses, so we perceive them as signs - and
those are, by their very nature, always interpreted. Thus, any reality
is already interpreted reality and therefore needs a Tertium
Comparationis for the sake of comparison and thus reference. Everything
else would be a nightmare which would dissolve the human brain long
before being able to create such fantasy worlds.

******
6 September 2009
10
When I first saw this movie when I was twelve I didn't think much of
it, I thought it had a confusing story and a mindless plot that was
supported and only succeeded by out of this world slow motion stunts.
Boy was I naive or what!? Now seeing it again after all these years I
could see that I was not ready back then to handle a movie of this
complexity and strange coherent means of story telling. But now I fully
respect and love this movie for what it is and for what it always will
be, mindbogglingly, mind blowing, out of this world fun.When the Matrix was released in 1999 this was the film to go see people
were busting out of the theater's and telling anyone they can to go see
this movie. It was the "It" movie of the year and it gained the title
justly. This film mapped out new territory in action and ushered in a
whole new generation of action & Sci-Fi thrillers and video games as
well(Max Payne comes to mind) it is one of the biggest and most beloved
film of the 90's and has one of the biggest fan base out there.This movie unique and I mean unique story and style has such and impact
on you when you first see it you'll want to see it the minute it's over
and some more after that and after that and you'll want to see it a
million times it's just that good. The Matrix put's a Gothic and dark
spin on the dystopia and apocalyptic themes that have become very
common in Sci-Fi films, this film does it one better it takes those
overly used themes and creates a completely original and unique world
around which everything we Believe is a lie. It has a great monolithic
tone to it that makes it a masterpiece by any standards and it creates
a great aftershock in which few films can actually do these days. It
purposes that machines while enslave humanity and use us as a battery
source to power there vasts armies of machines around the world. But
that's what makes it so great to watch it gives you a sense of hope and
a sense of justice that you just feel all the way to your bones.This movie has given the fellow movie goer what they've always wanted
and always searched for in a film, great action, a smart story and
plot, acting you can live with and put them all together and what do
you got? The Matrix! This movie will stick with long after it's over
and even after tour old you'll still remember one movie that rocked
your world like none other. All in all this film delivers great any day
entertainment that is like Laurence Fishburn said, " Unfortunately no
one can be told what the Matrix is you have to see it for yourself."
And trust me once you do you won't ever look at Sci-Fi or other movies
the same way again. This movie delivers.

******
17 August 2009
10
When i heard "Keanu Reeves" i said "no way". I had wrong. Even Keanu
Reeves looks better than him self in this movie. Laurence Fishburne was
very good. Hugo Weaving was excellent. Matrix is original, prototype
sci-fi movie. The first movie of the trilogy was the best. I can not
give less than 10 to this movie because the other two movies of the
trilogy were not excellent. Many people say that Matrix reminds
religions. Many other people say that maybe our world is in a matrix.Some opinions say that there is no chance our world to be a matrix
because our creator will not allow us to realize this thing, but even
if we realize that we are in a matrix what we can do? -Nothing!!! The
other two movies were not so good because there are answers to many
questions and the whole magic disappeared.

******
16 August 2009
10
I saw this movie when I was 10 years old and at first I did not
understand it but I watched it again and again. The more I watched, the
more I understood. The more I understood, the more difficult it became
for me to sleep at night.However its the sequels that ruined the thought provocation and
therefore it turned into a trilogy with an ending of good triumphing
over evil rather than the enigma that the first installment left.This is about the first and I must say it is captivating. The visuals,
the sound, the plot, the theme, motifs, the action and so on.In my English class, we had an assignment. We had to write about
something that shaped our perception of the world. And one of my
classmates wrote that watching this film did it for him.Entertaining and overwhelming.

******
2 August 2009
9
The Wachowski Brothers first Matrix film is one of, if not THE most
revolutionary film of all time. The special effects, CGI, story, every
aspect of this film is something fresh and original, even today, ten
years after it was originally released. To use an analogy, The Matrix
is what I like to call the Kurt Cobain of films, as my review title
says. Any fans of 90s rock music should understand my comparison. That being said, if you are like me, you won't find this film to be
anything truly special the first time you watch it. It's kind of like
The Godfather, in a sense. The more times you view it, the more things
you will pick up on and you realize that you missed so many things when
you watched the movie the first time around. The first time I sat down
and watched The Matrix, I finished it and said to myself- "Okay, that
was good. Great? Not so much." Then, a couple months later, I watched
the film for the second time. When I re-watched The Matrix, I came to
realize how truly great it is. There were several things that I came to
understand that I didn't understand when I first watched The Matrix. The acting is excellent in all three Matrix films, but it was easily
superior in this installment in the trilogy. Keanu Reeves plays Neo
well, you simply have to love Laurence Fishburne in his role as the
enigmatic Morpheus, Carrie-Anne Moss did well as Trinity, but the show
was stolen by Hugo Weaving, who is completely AWESOME as Smith. These films aren't for everyone. But if you are looking for something
original and revolutionary, The Matrix is the way to go.

******
26 July 2009
8
I remember when I was young and this movie came out, everybody was
quoting the Matrix moves. The dodging bullets, running up walls, or
just plain stylized jumping. But what they did not know is the science
behind that. And, yeah, there is a science behind that according to
this excellent movie.In this movie, Thomas Anderson has two lives: your average man that
programs software for a large company. Then there is Neo, one of the
most powerful and skillful hackers known to man. But then Mr. Anderson
gets a phone call from a man named Morpheus who tells him that he is
the "one" in another world. So when Neo joins Morpheus on this quest to this other world, a lot of
explanation comes about which I will explain in as simple terms as
possible.In the Earth that you are presently at right now, according to the
movie, is not the real world and that the real world is somewhere out
there in an unclassified location. In this movie, where Neo, Morpheus,
Trinity, and a bunch of the other characters are located is in the real
world: the Matrix. And in this Matrix, a lot of cool things can happen
and the reason why these cool things can happen is because the Matrix
allows your mind to become free and to do whatever you want. For
example, you can believe yourself to run up the walls; you can believe
that you can dodge a bullets. All these things that humans in the fake
world cannot do is possible in the Matrix, but only if you believe. Now
try imaging this guy who was living the fake world for about twenty
plus years and suddenly trying to get used to believing in doing
things. Because while Neo does not understand what is going on, you are
along on the ride with him. When you do watch this film: you must
listen attentively to everything that Morpheus says. The reason is
because later on, you will need what Morpheus says to understand what
is going on.For one thing, the way this film was created was beyond excellent. The
visual effects had a meaning and almost a purpose in this film. It was
not there to make some cool show. They were there to break down the
steps to how someone can run up walls or dodge bullets. The slow motion
that was used was also very well done. I thought that the slow-motion
was actually going to ruin the movie like Zack Synder does to his
movies. But the slow-motion enhanced the film incredibly and gave
scenes a certain kind of stylistic element that entices you. I was also
very much drawn into the concept of the whole film because although
there was a lot of action in this movie, a good portion of the movie
was also a lot of philosophy that connected to the world we live in
right now.And already I see that this movie has become a classic because films
today like Wanted, Watchmen, 300 and many other action films use the
Matrix as a guideline to there own visual beauty, even though those
three films do not come close to what the Matrix is. This movie is the
birth of some of the finest visual art/filming and basic elements of
science-fiction I have ever seen. Even to this day, ten years later, it
still looks gorgeous.Maybe if the movie was more intense and was less to appeal younger
kids, I would have given this movie a low 9. But I will give this movie
a high 8.

******
20 July 2009
10
2009, and the best sci-fi movie ever made is still The Matrix (1999).
Let's forget about the sequels, the less said the better, but the
original had everything: mind blowing special effects, awesome concept,
gripping plot, breath-taking action sequences (with knowing nods to the
Hong-kong Kungfu genre - e.g. signature moves from Bruce Lee from Jet
Li), gnarly sound-track, and engaging characters. Though many aspects
of the movie have been copied, nothing has come close to it. Never has
one movie raised the bar by so much.When one considers the nature of speculative fiction one sees so few
movies that come close to the complexity of thought and concept as the
print medium. Only The Matrix and a handful of others (e.g.
Bladerunner, Close Encounters, 2001 A Space Odyssey) really do justice
to the genre - the books are more about humans adapting to unfamiliar
situations rather than monsters and terror. So few sci-fi movies
require the audience to think or evaluate what they are seeing. With
The Matrix one cannot help but reflect on reality and what it means to
be human. "There is no spoon!"

******
14 July 2009
9
Spoilers I believe I have seen the Matrix all the way through, one time, even
though I own it. I watched the start of the movie, and Neo taking the
red pill many times. However, I've have seen the climax of this movie
about 300 times. This climax is very inspirational and almost as
powerful as the dramatic climax of the "Five By Five" episode of the
vampire TV show, "Angel" A character spawned from the "Buffy the
Vampire Slayer"). The IMDb user rating for the Matrix (8.9 stars) is
identical to the IMDb rating for that "Five By Five" episode of Angel.
When I want to feel good, I watch that "Five By Five" episode of Angel
climax coupled with "The Matrix" climax about 3 times every week and
never get tired of either one.I saw the plot similar to the Matrix in an earlier little known &
thought provoking movie starring WWE's "Roudy Roddy Piper" called "They
Live". Therefore, the Matrix plot did not surprise me much or make me
think. It seemed like the plot "set up" was copied from that other
movie. This movie "sets up" that in the future, humans go through life
serving creatures from outer space that enslaved us and use our energy.
The enslavers keep us energetic by giving humans a false vision of the
world achieved through a computer program called "The Matrix".There are a small handful of humans aware of this. They live in a ship
and are led by Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) and Trinity (Carry Anne
Moss). They seek "The One". "The One" has been for-told to have mental
strength to overcome the controlling forces in the Matrix like Agent
Smith. The find/contact Neo Anderson (Keuanu Reeves). They show him the
truth about the real world, and explain the power needed to overcome
the Matrix and train him. They even suspect he is "The One". Agent
Smith an agent of the Matrix programming is more powerful than any
human. Neo's has difficulty accepting this reality and he does not take
to Morpheus' training.In real life, Trinity and Morpheus have rescued Neo from the
enslavement existence that most humans have and keep him alive on their
ship. However, one of his crew Cypher tries to kill Neo in real life
and fails to kill him, due to others intervening. Agent Smith the
powerful agent of the Matrix program, has always kept the Matrix in
tack. No one ever survived a confrontation with Agent Smith.The Enslaving creatures find out about the ship and begin to charge
through the ocean toward an attack on that ship. At this moment, Neo is
killed by Mr. Smith in the Matrix and in real life Neo's heart stops.
Also at that moment, Morpheus is shocked, and says, "it can't be" as he
watches all hope for the human race die with Neo.As Neo lies dead in the ship, Trinity tell his dead body that she is
not afraid. Trinity says she has been told by the Oracle, that she
would fall in love with "The One". She says she now realizes she loves
Neo. Therefore, he is the one. She kisses his dead mouth. Miraculously,
he begins breathing again. She says "Get up." Neo immediately arises in
the Matrix to the shock of Mr. Smith and his friends, but they
immediately fire a hail of bullets at Neo.A split second before the numerous gun shots, Neo softly says "No".As the bullets fly, Neo's "No" makes the bullets slow down, then stop
in mid air, and then makes them fall harmlessly to the ground. The
music hits a powerful crescendo climax as Morpheus is in awe of this
power, and says what everyone watching realizes: "He Is The One!" Neo
then easily annihilates Mr. Smith and afterward, we see all of the
Matrix bend at Neo's will. Neo looks at Mr Smith's co-horts and they
run. He comes out of the Matrix & somehow disbands the enslaving
metallic creatures who have attacked their ship. Then Neo telephones
the enslaving creatures and tells them, that he will show all humans
enslaved in the Matrix a new world and they will free themselves.Aside from having seen a similar plot "Set Up" in "They Live", the only
real problem I had with this tremendous movie was that when the
climactic music is played and the words "He is the one", is heard, we
then look at Mr Smith and friends in a shot of green and white computer
numbers forming their persons. I know it had to be done for the sake of
the story, but it did not fit with the inspirational climactic music
and the awesomeness of this scene. This is a minuscule flaw in
something very inspirational. When looking to feel good, I usually play
the "Neo Is The One" chapter of the Matrix to the end of the movie.

******
27 June 2009
10
Everything about this film is perfect. Reeves is perfect (for the first
time since Bill and Ted) in the role of Neo. In fact, the casting
overall is perfect. Every single actor and actress does their job
brilliantly - credit where credit's due to the brothers, it's their
baby, they did it.The action redefined every film I can think of from this point on. The
CGI, the brutal expendable nature of all of the people inside the
matrix. It's simply fantastic. I think we'll all be waiting a long long
time before we ever see a film so rich in story, visual effects, action
and overall quality. This film was also brilliant in the music department. The music makes
the action better. The background music makes the atmosphere more
atmospheric. Think about it, Prodigy, Rob Zombie, Mayalin Manson, Rage
Against the Machine, Deftones, Rob D and most surprisingly, the
fantastic cheesy metal of Rammstein. A soundtrack like that could have
made Little House on the Prarie awesome. I can't imagine that there is anyone on God's green earth who hasn't
seen this film. But if you've not seen it, then your life is emptier
because of it.

******
14 June 2009
9
'The Matrix' should be seriously considered an absolute classic and
milestone. Is it perfect, though? No. But neither was 'Star Wars'
(1977) and it's considered the same. Both had mediocre at best acting
(Mark Hamill and Keanu Reeves must've applied at the same strip-mall
acting schools,) yet both were before their times and started a brand
new trend in movie-making. Actually, 'Matrix' takes the cake in too
many numerous rip-offs/copy-cats, too many to print. However, back in
1999, it was refreshing to see a movie where the action leads the hero
into running alongside a wall while shooting and actually gives a
reason they can physically do that. Neo (Reeves) is a computer hacker
who's being courted by digital heroes he worships while being
investigated for cyber-crimes. After being convinced to follow his
soon-to-be mentors into the "rabbit hole" he learns (or more
accurately, takes the rest of the film to learn) that the world he was
accustomed to is just a computer program, a la 'The Matrix' and the
mainframe's using humans as batteries. Bring on the 'Terminator'-type
save all humans from technology storyline. However, with strong
performances from Fishburne, Moss, Foster and Weaving, incredible
action/chases and state-of-the-art special effects (that still hold up
today, 10 years later) we have a fresh, exciting, action packed
adventure with smart dialogue even with the same ole "Savior" or "The
One" storyline. The film's biggest weakness, or really only blemish, is
Reeves, who once again proves he's the absolutely luckiest actor in
history. Most of his big-budgeted movies are really good, aside from
him. For example, 'Speed,' 'Bram Stoker's Dracula,' and 'The Devil's
Advocate,' were all wonderful films and were all nearly brought down on
the horrid (lack of) acting Reeves gives. Despite that, 'Matrix' is an
absolute must watch.

******
25 May 2009
9
After the death of good science fiction movies (with a few exceptions)
in 1994, the genre made a strong comeback with the release of the
highly publicized "The Matrix". Since then, the film has become a
common cultural reference, and copied in the stylization and use of
slow motion.It was only recently, on a boring Friday, alone in my room with my
Xbox, that I finally decided to view "The Matrix". I rented it off of
Xbox Live, and immediately became sucked in by action sequences I
recognized from more recent films, films which no doubt had used the
Matrix as a large source of inspiration.The films main strength lies in it's visual appeal. consistently
switching between the gritty harshness of the real, machine-ruled
world, and the slick, sterilized feel inside the Matrix and other
computer programs. The film implements visual styles never before seen
in any film, and created a world, stretching the limits of the human
imagination.The films second strength, is in it's mind-bending philosophies. What
is the true state of existence? Is what you know reality, or simply a
veil to a bigger picture. Questions such as these that go wild within
the human mind but are never able to be truly communicated with others.
The film draws heavily on Christian and Bhuddist philosophies and
concepts.Very few times has such a mix of both action and philosophy been but
together in film form. Thus creating such an automatic appeal to the
viewers.But as with most films, "The Matrix" does come with its own flaws. As
with many science fiction and action films. These biggest flaws lie in
the ending. As with films such as "Terminator 2" or "Iron Man" the film
succumbs to typical "Spiderman-ish" corniness toward its ending, that
does not seem fitting with the mature vision the rest of the film
contained.Although sequels offer logical reasoning for the over-played sequences
toward the end, it still feels as if to little explanation is left to
be fully satisfying.One thing that has to be fully understood with the Matrix, is that it
is almost completely dependant on its sequels to be complete. Not all
is resolved in the end (in fact, not even the main conflict is
resolved). It is truly a three-part saga, and is what it should really
be viewed as.Science fiction lovers will (and have) found this film to put a fresh
perspective on the genre and will love this movie for years to come.
Non-geek people will probably enjoy most of it, particularly the
concepts which are introduced in the movie.8/10 stars

******
25 May 2009
10
The most complete and involving trilogy as far as the possibilities of
the medium. Greatest story ever told in an exclusively cinematic
format, it's obvious that all the possibilities of the format have been
stretched by it. From the dreamy atmosphere to conceptual fight scenes,
flawless cruising between parallel realities etc. All leading to an
epic, climatic finish that sums up and closes every emotional note
raised throughout the series perfectly.Also, to me what was the most stunning aspect of it, was that the
freedom in deciding where to take and how to tell the story felt
absolute. There was no meddling with it by executive producers or
studio executives etc. A piece of movie art, this is where it all leads
to.You can have stories as good as this. But you cannot have better
movies.

******
11 May 2009
10
I can say this being a fan of this film since I was only in eleven
years old, that this film just stays timeless. This film has been
around since 1999 and it is now 2009 and to this day this film can
still blow people's minds. THE MATRIX is a true masterpiece that will
be remembered for a long, long time. This is a film that can be
compared to the likes of BLADE RUNNER and STAR WARS. Here in this
review, I will talk about how why I love this movie so much and how I
think it has influenced action films today.First off let me talk about why I love the film. When I first saw THE
MATRIX I really loved it for the action. I was too young to really
understand what it was really about to know how deep and complex it
really is. I watched this film a billion times with my brother on video
and HBO and imitated the martial art scenes and of course the famous
"bullet dodging" scene. (May contain Mild Spoiler: Plot description) As I got older, I grew to
appreciate this movie for the story. I just loved the idea behind the
movie. I think I just loved the idea of a alternate world that humans
lived in. The idea that the world humans live in is a virtual reality
world and being slaves is simply brilliant. I wrote a research paper on
this about how us being enslaved by the machine world is a reference to
Plato (I learned this from the documentary Burly Man Chronicles from my
DVD) I also did a ton of research on the matter. There is so much
philosophical references in this film. Actually, all three films have
philosophical references and of course religious themes. A lot of
people can see Neo as a symbol to a lot of major prophets such as,
Jesus Christ and Mohammad. Basically, I love it for how my many symbols
and ideas that are put behind the film (aside from the action of course
that was amazing). (More possible Minor spoilers ahead) THE MATRIX has been mimicked in a
lot of ways by many different action films. Especially the bullet time.
Films such as THE ONE (With Jet Li), EQUILIBRIUM (with Christian Bale)
and even some Super hero films used some of the Bullet time sequences
and all looked similar to THE MATRIX. THE MATRIX has put in an impact
to many films today also by it's complex story line. This movie proved
that audiences were all willing to think. So, in result, more
intelligent action movies started to get made. Okay, not everyone has
to agree with me on this but, I do really believe that.THE MATRIX is an amazing film and can be arguably considered to be the
most groundbreaking film of it's genre since the original STAR WARS. I
know a lot of people hated the sequels to THE MATRIX but if you ask me,
I feel all three films are equally good. I did so many research papers
on all three including an argumentative paper on why all three MATRIX
films are equally good. I love watching THE MATRIX and will never get
bored of it.

******
25 April 2009
10
Let's take a brief trip back to 1999. Bill Clinton was president of the
United States, war was raging in Kosovo, two young men committed mass
murder at Columbine High School, everyone was paranoid about Y2K and
September 11th was still a day with no negative significant meaning. In
cinema there was only one sci-fi movie on everyone's minds: Star Wars:
Episode I  The Phantom Menace. But not one month before that film
opened, Andy and Lana (as it seems we must call him/her now) Wachowski
brought us a sci-fi movie that must have had George Lucas panicking
when he saw it: The Matrix, a trippy, visually spectacular and
groundbreaking look at what the future could be like. And it was shot
in Australia.The brothers Wachowski were influenced by many earlier sci-fi and
fantasy texts (among others, various cyberpunk films and novels, anime
and even Alice in Wonderland) when coming up with the story for The
Matrix. Keanu Reeves stars as Thomas A. Anderson, a white-collar worker
for a software company who leads another life at night, one lived in
computers as the hacker Neo. He believes the world he exists in is
completely real and is tracked down by a band of outcasts rebels led by
the enigmatic Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) and the tough female
Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss). From Morpheus Neo learns that the world the
"real" world he knew beforehand is actually the Matrix, a virtual
dreamland run by evil supercomputers in which most of humanity is
unknowingly trapped. Believing Neo is the messianistic "One" who will
liberate humanity from the Matrix, Morpheus gives Neo the chance to
join him. Neo does, and now the battle to save humanity begins.
However, the rebels' efforts are thwarted by Agent Smith (Hugo
Weaving), a ruthless and almost indestructible sentient program that
will remorselessly kill to maintain order in the system.Ignore Keanu Reeves' wooden acting and the occasionally uninspired
dialogue; after all, this isn't a movie that depends on flawless acting
and writing to succeed. Unlike so many other sci-fi films before and
since, The Matrix provides stimulation for the mind as well as eye
candy in equal measure. The Matrix's story is a confusing (for
first-time viewers) but very mentally stimulating one, discussing
themes of dystopia, corruption, totalitarianism, the power of the
individual and humanity's potentially hazardous relationship with
technology. But the true meat in the sandwich undeniably lies in its
technical prowess. The highly groundbreaking and inventive special
effects have been written about, copied and have caused The Matrix to
become one of the most parodied movies ever made, and not once do they
show 11 years. The sound design and effects could just be the very best
I have ever heard. Zach Staenberg's editing is frenetic, fluid and
crisp, making the convoluted plot and all the flawlessly executed
technical elements come together perfectly for maximum impact. The
Matrix earned Oscars in all four of these categories and justice
certainly was served. Also worth mentioning is the gritty yet
aesthetically pleasing art direction by Aussie Owen Paterson, Bill
Pope's inventive cinematography, which arguably what was the real
reason why the bullet-time sequences were so revolutionary, and Don
Davis' Vangelis-esquire score adds to the suspense enormously. Love or
loathe this knockout masterwork, you could never say that it didn't
take its genre in a very new direction. Every so often, a movie with almost no hype surrounding it comes out,
takes the world by storm and comes to have a lasting impact not just on
pop culture but film-making as well. The Matrix is such a movie.
Although it took me quite a few years to fall completely under its
spell (when I first saw it at 11 it confused the hell out of me), The
Matrix is a movie (like very few others) that never fails to suck me in
and leave me stunned and eager for more by the end. Unfortunately it
was followed by two unoriginal sequels that arguably were only produced
to fill cash registers, but even they did nothing to tarnish the
brilliance of this one. The Matrix has earned its place in humble
all-time top twenty films list, and I can't see it falling out of that
list for a long time. A true roller-coaster ride of a movie.

******
29 March 2009
9
Neo. Trinity. Morpheus. You have three interesting characters and a
very interesting plot. But at times it can become boring? What I mean
is at times, don't you get bored listening to the characters explaining
every new part of the story like they want to burn it into our brains?
The plot: Thomas Anderson/Neo (Keanu Reeves) receives different
messages from a man named Morpheus... I was bored until the action
scenes. The cast is no problem. Its the sometimes boring plot that
stops and starts again. Reloaded was much better as it had the same
kind story as the first Matrix, but balancing it with excellent action
scenes. The less said about Revolutions the better.So there you have it. Reloaded better.

******
28 December 2008
8
I first watched this when it first showed in MTL. It IS a visually
stunning AND entertaining movie. Actors are good at what they do but
please...there is NOT one iota of anything original in this movie!
Computer programs as humans or humans in the 'mind' or 'midst' of a
computer program? Have you watched 1982 TRON (
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0084827/)? Synopsis from this site "A
hacker is literally abducted into the world of a computer and forced to
participate in gladiatorial games where his only chance of escape is
with the help of a heroic security program". Sounds familiar? What
about people jumping 50 meters high exchanging kung-fu blows? Well,
Hong Kong has been milling that kind of cinematic visuals for decades.
I really laugh out loud when I read people going ecstatic over Matrix's
philosophy... Proper philosophers coined the 'brain in a vat' dilemma
(http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/brain-vat/) ages ago (the 1980s?),
asking whether we can say anything is real and how can we be sure of
anything. Troubled teenagers will probably find the movie philosophical
appeal irresistible...religious fundamentalists may all find their
piece of cake (is Cypher like encryption or Lou...cifer? Trinity? Weird
none's called Holy Ghost in there). It's a SFX action extravaganza, not
gospel. What about Men in Black? There are people who think they are
henchmen of an underground government run by aliens from outer space...
It's entertaining and visually stunning and are not Carrie Ann Moss and
McClory hot? But just that... Movies about prophecies sell a dime a
dozen...oh, and waking up the dead with a kiss: THAT is original and
not copied from some fairy tale. Watch out for the "cell-phones for the
masses" craze that was becoming mainstream (I am sure popcorn
philosophers will just love "the call" mystical subject ).

******
13 October 2008
7
If this movie was Spielberg would have had more. Since these strontium
on the assumption that a film must be beautiful to be directed by big
names like Spielberg, Lucas, Jackson, Cameron. .. All these assessments
are wrong you understand the level of bad opinion of this site. Only
films for intellectuals can be saved. This film was produced with many
dollars and the optimal use of special effects make the place as among
the best science fiction film Americans. Finitela of using double
standards when judged as a movie, try to be objective because they give
3.8 a film of its kind and reward a crap how terrible sin city with 8.2
is really a 'offense. Vote 8.0

******
17 September 2008
7
Action set pieces in this movie have already become iconic: brilliantly
choreographed, inventive and gloriously over the top, they represent a
fine mix of science fiction and martial arts. The "bullet-time" effect,
in particular, has been ripped off dozens of times since.Unfortunately, that's the only real achievement of the Matrix series;
everything else reeks of Philip K. Dick for dummies. Not only the stuff
about alternative realities and cyberspace, but also pretty much every
other idea seems to have been discreetly borrowed from other sources
(aside from Dick, major inspirations are Alex Proyas' Dark City and
William Gibson's Count Zero). Even the famous set piece where Neo
(Reeves) infiltrates an enemy base to rescue his mentor/guru Morpheus
(Fishburne) has its precedent in Dick, bullet-time included (read
Counter-clockwise if you don't believe me). The result is an admittedly
pretty collage.Human element is weak, which makes emotional involvement faint;
characters are bland, showing little personality. Reeves' Neo is just a
blank. Fishburne and Moss fare a little better, but the stand-outs are
Pantoliano as traitorous Cypher and an icy, smug Hugo Weaving as Agent
Smith: every time he is on screen the movie shift gears. It's one of
the Matrix' ironies that its cybernetic villain is a lot more lively
than the human hero. Kubrick did the same in 2001, but that was a
deliberate choice.While Dick's works are rich with irony and melancholy, the Wachowskis
go for kung fu and head shots. Still, better an overdose of action than
the portentous posturing which they tried to pass off as philosophy in
the two sequels.7/10

******
1 September 2008
10
My favorite film and i don't think it will change for a very long time.
If you've never seen it run to the store and BUY it. But if you're the
type that likes doing other things while watching a movie then don't
watch it. I really love this film and can't stand to see low ratings
just because people didn't sit there long enough to understand it. To
me when I first watched it i couldn't get enough of it. It was so
creative and interesting that I didn't want it to end if there is such
a thing. I was addicted to it for like a week. They never should have
made those degrading sequels. I hate them. I wish I never watched them.
How could you make the most brilliant movie and follow it up by two
dumb ones. Well that's what happens when you add bunch of unnecessary
crap so you can divide them into two movies. Don't these directors have
any sense of responsibility to the fans. Is everything about money damn
it. Oh yeah, it is.

******
24 August 2008
10
This is actually my Favourite movie i love it so much and i also love
the music in this movie and when i watched this when i was little i use
to pretend i was Neo i actually bought the glasses he wears that hot
much i love this movie and i also love Warner Bros. Pictures they do
good movies and thats why Keanu Reeves i think is the best actor. 10/10
and i like ''Sci Fi'' films like star wars etc this movie is so so
good. I like the guns and weapons used in this movies and also the
clothes and i also like what they did with this movie Andy and Larry
Wachowski were good with this movie with the actor especially like
Keanu Reeves,Lawrence Fishburne,Carrie Ann Moss etc.10/10!!!!!

******
7 August 2008
10
in a day & age bombarded with action flicks with stunning visuals but
cheesy plots. matrix may presents itself as just another to the
ignorant or those who does not comprehend the matrix itself, but it
really comes across as a philosophical masterpiece. if treated as a
popcorn flick, most will remember the matrix as another summer
blockbuster with mindblowing special effects for its time, however if
engaged at a deeper level, the matrix becomes a work of philosophy,
questioning humanity & our very own existence itself, whats real or
surreal, whats the meaning of real, how does one even define real? one
will become so deeply engaged with the idea behind the matrix that itll
push your mind to think beyond the square we live in. in the end, the
matrix goes beyond entertainment, the matrix will make you more
open-minded & perceptive to the world we live in.

******
23 July 2008
10
The Matrix is one of those films that has past the test of time. When
it came out, it blew audiences away with its originality, CGI and its
classic action sequences. This is one of those few action films that
stand up with Die Hard as being the most memorable.The acting is usually around a good average in action films but not
here. Keanu Reeves is perfectly cast as Thomas Anderson who is sort of
a nobody until he meets Trinity. His acting style completely suits his
character who is completely lost at first in the world of the Matrix.
Lawrence Fishbourne and Carrie Anne Moss both do good jobs as well but
Hugo Weaving provides the best performance as Agent Smith who is a
character you won't forget.The action scenes are stunning and they owe a lot to CGI but that
doesn't ruin the film as it is only ever used when there is no choice.This is a great film that deserved it four Oscars and it shall always
be remembered for revamping the action genre. I just hope Andy
Wachowski and Larry Wachowski can make another film that is as
memorable as this.

******
6 June 2008
10
I saw this movie a couple of years ago, when all I wanted was to see
some people shoot each other and have my mind blown by state-of-the-art
effects. I loved it. But, just yesterday, I watched it again. Finally,
everything makes much more sense than before. I will be re-watching
Reloaded and Revolutions as well, but this is where I'm at. I thought
that Keanu Reeves played Neo, who is the only person who can stop the
machines from killing the last human city. Laurence Fishburne plays
Morpheus, the guy who explains everything about what the purpose of the
Matrix is. Carrie-Anne Moss plays Trinity. She is the first character
we meet, and starts this movie off with a bang. She's pretty cool. Now,
Smith is played by Hugo Weaving, and is part of the Matrix's computer
program. He is a cool villain, who is sadly underused. Hugo Weaving is
cool and creepy and all around weird. I loved this movie, and I always
will. I will always have it in my DVD collection and hope they come out
with a 10th anniversary edition next year.

******
5 June 2008
9
There is probably no better line in this film that illustrates the
bizarre fallacy of out own daily lives than this.For Neo (Keanu Reeves) his daily life is a series of disjointed and
disconnected segments as he works as a software programmer by day and
at night works as a computer hacker of sorts. This world is crashed in
on by three black suited individuals who want to know more about what
Neo is doing and his attempts to make contact with an individual called
Morpheus, who, we are told, is as a suspected terrorist. As the movie
moves on the world around Neo seems to change by the second as he
searches for answers to discover what the matrix is."Unfortunately, no-one can be told what the matrix is. You have to see
it for yourself." and therein lies the big reveal as the Matrix is
nothing like you anticipate or expect. After this all the rules that
usually apply to films to action sequences to good and evil and even
gravity are bent, twisted and downright broken as the film moves
towards it's inevitable, pre-destined within it, conclusion. "There is no spoon,"The Matrix was a groundbreaking film when it came out and whilst two
inferior sequels have dimmed some of the appeal for people, if you do
what I do, which is wilfully disregard them the same way that I do with
the Highlander sequels, then you still have one of the greatest sci-fi
films of all time, a film that leaves with you when you walk out of the
pictures and makes you question every aspect of the world which we
perceive to be the real world.When I first watched the film I was left totally baffled by Morpheus
initial dialogue of what the Matrix was and then left spellbound when I
discovered what lay beyond. The learning curve the Neo experiences, we
experience with him, we fear when he is not the one, worry when we
learn of the fate of Morpheus and cheer as lives out his predicted
fate, the good, as well as the bad.The action sequences are breath taking and the lobby sequence is one of
the most amazing of all time, yet the great thing about it, is that it
means nothing without the rest of the movie wrapped round it.No bad scenes and no bad acting.The only downside, it was done in Doctor Who first and it's not Empire
Strikes Back.still, an extremely worthy nine and deserves it's place in the 250.Wachowski's Maesterpiece

******
3 June 2008
10
This is a movie that combines style with substance. It's basically a
riff on the age old philosophy of Scepticism-a philosophy that holds
that we can know nothing of the world we live in as it is all an
illusion. The hero of this movie, Neo, finds himself in just such a
predicament. He is told that the world he lives in is just an illusion,
controlled by inhuman monsters. He is given a choice: accept the
illusion, or break out of the illusion.You can't really say that the events in the movie are philosophically
coherent or satisfying, but on a visceral and emotional level, it gives
a tremendous thrill ride.The movie plays like every small boy,s fantasy-a chance to play a
god-like being against other all powerful beings. The music adds to
this macho, gun-toting, martial art practising fantasy. For example, a
variation on Led Zeppelin's classic guitar riff song "Kashmir" is used
to great effect later on in the movie.This is a marvellously executed boys' own adventure. It was one of
several entertaining movies from Hollywood in this period which dealt
engagingly with profound philosophical issues. Rest assured, this is
not a movie for the intellect only-it uses this old philosophical
chest-nut in order to create an exciting, but scary world where
apocalyptic battles are fought.Other movies of extreme interest from around this period include Dark
City and The Thirteenth Floor. The latter is like The Matrix, but more
so, if you get what my mean. The former deals with profound
philosophical issues, but of a different sort.In a different vein, is Gattaca. All of these movies could be described
as science-fiction/fantasy movies. See them to see a different world
imagined.Lastly, The Matrix was so good, you would have hoped that it would have
had sequels made. No such luck. Of course, it would have been so easy
to make nothing sequels that reviewers would not want to acknowledge.
Yup, the makers of The Matrix knew when to quit-after one movie. A
monument.

******
27 May 2008
10
This is one of the true classics of the late 90's (the cyber age). If
you're a sci-fi fan, you'll love this movie. If you're an action movie
fan you'll still love this movie. The Matrix, not only has razzle and
dazzle for the viewer's eyes, but plenty to chew on for the viewer's
mind as well. There's a lot of philosophy brought into this movie that
left me more than just pleased. This movie is almost seamless (is
perfection ever achieved in art... especially in the medium of cinema?)
with the technical aspects, story and underlining philosophical social
political implications that are brought to the table. This movie has
made it's deep footprint on cinema, and if you've ever been curious as
to why that is, you will not be disappointed when you discover The
Matrix. Note: you do not have to watch the sequels to be more satisfied
with the original. In fact the original stands on its own two feet
better than it does with the help of its successors. Watch and watch
carefully, because this movie gets deep, but not too deep, and leaves
viewers with plenty to ponder as well as being satisfied with a
stunningly beautifully made technical achievement that'll have your
jaws dropping.

******
22 May 2008
10
This should not be neglected that Wachowski brothers made a great job.
And this product has introduced several new techniques to the movie
industry and one of the pioneers in this industry. This film gives
actually everything that you expect from an action such as wonderful
camera-work, beautiful switches between themes and editing, and
powerful acting. What is more, this film will make you feel satisfied
and your eyes will be sated with the action. The Matrix is simply one of the greatest ambitious movies in the film
history and it is very obvious that the directors, producers and
filmmakers needed to take themselves to the next level due to this
movie. A new age has been opened by this great movie.It is indisputable fact that, the characters in this movie has another
importance rather than the simplicity of their acts. For example
everyone knows what Trinity is or what the meaning of greatness of
Morpheus is. But what is very enjoyable and dramatic is to solve this
puzzle.All in all, this has a lot to offer in terms of eye candy. The movie,
overall, was a tremendous experience and must see production.

******
1 May 2008
8
You've got to hand it (well, some of it) to The Matrix.The concept is great. That concept is translated into a decent screen
adaptation. The film has a wholly original (and much copied) look to
it. The action sequences are generally well choreographed, if a bit
over-reliant on slow motion. The effects are simply brilliant and, in
places, groundbreaking (there aren't many films which add something
100% new to the filmmaker's bag of tricks, but The Matrix is one of
them). The principals mostly deliver excellent performances, and Keanu
looks cool, as he is meant to.But there is a distinct element of The Emperor's New Clothes at work
here. It's very evident in some of the fanboy gushing, and I suspect
that the Emperor's tailors also believed that they had sewed a suit of
clothes which was a lot more visible than it actually was. Apologies,
I'm disappearing up my own metaphor here.I think The Matrix thinks it is very much cleverer than it actually is.
There's no denying that it's a good yarn, told with a distinctive style
and a great deal of panache, but that's all it is. Yet you'd think it
was the 5th Gospel to listen to what some have to say.I accept it, with thanks, as a good movie.The sequels? Er...

******
22 April 2008
10
Despite been almost 10 years since its debuting, The Matrix still the
top apocalyptic sci-fi movie ever made. Even better than Terminator,
just because in the later, there is still hope of not allow the
destruction to come. While in the former, the damage is done. Moreover,
there lots of philosophy references during the movie, what make it more
interesting and enjoyable. There are entire websites dedicated to
explain those references. Besides that, the movie has set up new
parameters for action and sci-fi movies, which has found no surpass
until now. I always wander: when a movie will make me feel that way
again, after seeing it? Defnetely a milestone for action and sci-fi.
MUST SEE!

******
19 April 2008
10
From the first time I watched the movie....I wanted to write something,
albeit I wanted that piece of writing to be phenomenal. First time I
watched the movie when I passed high school, though at that time it
should've gone bouncer over me if my brothers wouldn't have been there.
I was simply bowled over, but I didn't know it will keep coming back in
different shades. Then I watched it again and again, I understood a bit
more, then came all the other parts, I came to my Insti, then in 2nd yr
of my B.Tech. I watched it about 10 times more, then I started
experiencing another level of the matrix i.e. the one related to
Bhagwat Gita. Your life(life in the matrix), enlightenment(free your
mind), spiritual life(life in real world) and on and on. This movie my
friend is more than what you can imagine, watch it if you are a movie
lover, sci fi addict, spiritual, human and above all if you are
"plugged". I like all the dialogs of the matrix and I think I remember
50% of the script. This movie is made to rock your life. The dialogs
are the best part of the matrix......so script/screenplay is nice,
cinematography is good but amateur, direction and all is good, acting I
think is not required here. But above all the visual effect. And ya
that is also the cinematography when the scene freezes and revolves,
they used I think 12 cameras for that. My personal favorite.

******
2 April 2008
9
***SPOILERS for those who have never seen or heard about the movie*** A good movie can be many things, but one thing that good movies always
have is that they don't get get boring after repeated viewings. Going
back and re-watching it not only gives you the same enjoyable
experience of seeing a great film, but also the opportunity to notice
things you didn't quite catch before or see the same things in a
slightly (or totally) different way."The Matrix" is that type of movie. A cleverly designed story that
speaks about many things on many levels. The most obvious thing here
are the spectacular effects that won an Oscar and even spawned the
phrase "Matrix-like action." They took slow motion and action
choreography to a whole new level. But even so, they wouldn't be so
great if they weren't part of an innovative story structure that can be
seen in a great number of ways. The story can be seen as a heroic quest
that the lead character Neo embarks on. A religious and/or historical
allegory due to all the classical names of the characters. Or, even
that of a totalitarian police state.The last viewpoint I found particularly interesting as the Matrix is
the ultimate Orwellian-nightmare prison. It has full control of your
body to the point that it fuels itself with the inmates' body heat. The
inmates are kept down by living in a time that is the peak of human
civilization and if they defer in anyway, the forces that control the
system go after them with police and military forces. The kicker, of
course, is that all this is an all illusion and escape, without serious
outside help, is an impossibility and even then it's difficult. But how
can there be outside help if everyone is asleep in pods? Naturally the
story sidesteps this by proving our character with a safe (well, sort
of) way out into the real world, but it is hardly a flaw in logic. The
story has to start somehow in order for it to go somewhere. Though it
remains a fact that trying to imagine how the very first person "woke
up" and then proceeded to "wake" others remains perplexing.This is a solid smart science fiction film with depth that few
blockbusters can ever hope to achieve. So watch it as an action movie.
Watch it as a thinking man's movie. But in the end, just watch it. ---
9/10Rated R for violence. Ages 13+

******
26 March 2008
10
People will see The Matrix on multiple levels, which is a good thing.There is the lower level people, about 70%, who will boast about the
cool special effects and slo-mo etc.Then there are the people who will start to think, hey, maybe we are
living inside a computer.Then.. there are the people who will understand that the whole movie is
a metaphor for how asleep the general population really is. We
literally have energy sucked out of us due to the fear that the media,
life stress etc sucks out of us. There are a lot of small details which
you can look into on the movie, which makes it something you can watch
again and again, and enjoy on so many levels.10/10

******
18 March 2008
9
And originality means the Matrix.I remember seeing it back in 1999 with
my dad and man we were blown away.Original concept mixed with superb
acting,amazing visual effects,great fights and an intelligent villain
unlike anyone before.Yeah agent Smith is awesome.By now you should know
what the matrix is-a computer generated dream world built to keep
humans harmless and living in denial.Neo is humanity's last hope for
salvation and the leader Morpheus believes in him that he will set them
free.The Washowski Bros show respect to Kubrick,Cameron and Scott and
create an original and intriguing movie unlike anything before.After
the disappointing sequels I appreciated this movie even more.Can't
think of anyone who would have played a better Neo than Keanu Reeves.He
gives all his heart and soul portraying a man insecure and without
confidence in himself feeling the weight of the world on his
shoulders.Laurence Fishburne is stunning also as his mentor who
believes in him more than anything and is willing to sacrifice his own
life to safe Neo's.Waking up from Wonderland is an emotional draining
experience and the audience is sucked into the story which gets more
and more interesting.The Matrix is undoubtedly one of the greatest
action movies of all time.A modern classic.

******
27 February 2008
9
Spoilers Ahead This movie is an absolute classic of cinema. It follows the "Star Wars"
epic formula, but is much better at developing compelling heroes,
villains, and a setting. The conflict of man vs. machine is a common
one, but "The Matrix" twists it on its head in that it is the humans
who are not so much oppressed by their robotic overlords as kept
complacent by a "bread and circuses" virtual reality program, while the
robots use the humans---most of whom are completely unaware of their
true reality---as energy sources. In other words, the oppressor is not
Skynet and its band of killer enforcers, but a machine that allows
humans the illusion of normality, with no real dangers or oppression
beyond what we would expect in our own world. The movie then poses this
question: if you knew that reality was an illusion, would you still
desire freedom, even if it meant disrupting a rather unoppressive
status quo? This movie clearly sides in favor of freedom, but the
ambiguity between good and evil, or the humans who desire freedom and
the robots who control mankind, makes this adventure story very
interesting and compelling.The acting and the plot construction is absolutely superb. Keanu
Reeves, previously best known for his excellent adventures and bogus
journeys with Genghis Khan, Napoleon, and the Grim Reaper is absolutely
wonderful as Neo, the Luke Skywalker-esquire hero, who is destined to
"free" mankind from the robots' control. He gives as understated
dramatic performance that gives a great deal of maturity and complexity
to his character, something that was rather missing from Mark Hamill's
performance as Luke Skywalker back in 1977. Laurance Fishburne,
previously best known as Pee-Wee Herman's cowboy friend, is excellent
as the stoic, deep-voiced authoritative Obi-Wan Kenobi
mentor/shaman/sensei/teacher character of Morpheus. His performance in
the "teacher" role to the epic hero is just as good, if not better,
than Alec Guiness's role as Obi-Wan. He is given more screen time to
tell Neo of his destiny than Obi-Wan did in telling Luke about "The
Force", and is therefore more effective in his role. Hugo Weaving,
previously best known as Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, is excellent
as the emotionless, cold, and ruthless enforcer program of the robots'
simulated reality, Agent Smith. He, like Reeves and Fishburne, gives an
understated yet powerful performance. Weaving clearly understood that
he was to be part-machine as an anthropomorphic computer program, whose
sole purpose was to eradicate any threat to the Matrix's status quo;
yet, he also convincingly shows a very human mental struggle within
Smith as to his role within the Matrix, which would evolve in the
movie's next two sequels. All told, these three actors give excellent
performances that lift this science fiction movie into a veritable
masterpiece of the genre.Of course, everyone will discuss the special effects. It is certainly
money well-spent, and does intertwine smoothly with the message the
writers had in mind about humans manipulating the fabric of the Matrix.This movie is definitely a classic of epic film-making. The Waschowski
brothers have created a universe as compelling and indelible as Lucas's
"Star Wars" or James Cameron's "Terminator". Watch it.

******
25 February 2008
10
'The Matrix' is a reflection of the mindset of the modern-day man. It
clearly indicates that humans rely on machines for the routine
life-cycle so heavily that they are beginning to lose control of their
self-sufficiency. So, its a very intelligent piece of art-work which
catches the eye of the class as well as the mass.The movie isn't just another sci-fi flick with a bunch of cool action
sequences. There is a lot of research behind the story. The
writer-director duo has made sure it stays in the minds of the people
till Armageddon. They have used many concepts from various cultures to
come up with a blend that is so perfect and extremely believable that
one may actually think of the possibility of such a situation.As far as acting is concerned, everybody did what they were required
to. It's a movie of a genre which doesn't ask much from the actors. It
has more of a technical inclination. Keanu Reeves was perfect as the
soft-spoken messiah. Carrie-Anne Moss was mesmerizing as the beautiful
love-interest of Neo. Laurence Fishburne demanded respect as the
inspiring leader. Hugo Weaving was brilliant as the elegant Agent
Smith. All other characters did total justice to their respective
roles.Considering all the technical aspects of the movie, it is no less than
a pioneering effort. Yuen Wo Ping is the undisputed champion of action
choreography and he proves it once again with his work in 'The Matrix'.
Bill Pope's perfect cinematography is a good lesson for any upcoming
cinematographer. The SFX team of the movie is one to look up to
considering their usage of bullet-time technology. The editing, music
and set design are highly praiseworthy.To end it, I'd say that if there is one movie in your life which you
would not want to miss, it is 'The Matrix'. Even if the conceptual
dialogues and philosophical aspects are out of your reach, you'd be
more than happy to witness the sheer brilliance of technology. Its the
best there is. Rating: 10/10

******
22 February 2008
10
What would you do if you found out that the real world you lived in
wasn't what it seemed? In the spring of 1999, "The Matrix" popped into
theaters where prior to showing how computers can play a role in
people's lives, the movie introduced fans dazzling special effects that
would change the film-making industry with dozens of directors and
hundreds of inspiring young artists wanting a piece of the action.Keanu Reeves plays Anderson, who goes by the name of Neo on the
Internet, a computer hacker who's trying to find out about a character
named Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne). He digs deeper before he realizes
that a group of agents led by Smith (Hugo Weaving) capture him and use
him to see if he can spill any information about Morpheus. Anderson
refuses before being set up by the agents in one horrifying scene that
I can't even describe as we speak.Later Anderson is telephoned by Morpheus to meet with his crew where
the hacker meets with his idol face to face.Neo gets more than he bargains for while hearing Morpheus explaining
that a war was going in the world between freedom fighters like
themselves to those opposing (the agents). He later sees that the way
they work is through computers where they're hooked behind a plug and
like a computer, information gets put into them from action, weapon and
vehicle handling and more."The Matrix" is not only a grand special effects extravaganza, but it
uses everything both old and new from philosophy, western spaghetti
(cowboy movies), Kung-Fu, and breaking time dimension where scenes run
in slow motion. It's so shocking that it's one of the few Sci-Fi movies
where you feel that you need to pay attention to.

******
21 February 2008
7
Well here I am almost 10 years after the release of this movie and I'm
finally reviewing it! I'd seen it on TV a few weeks back so I thought
it was time to commit my thoughts to cyberspace. Take Thomas Anderson,
AKA Hacker Neo. He is contacted by an underground resistance whose
leader Morpheus he has been looking for.Exactly why Neo is looking for him is never explained, we are thrown
into a different story because Morpheus had been looking for him. When
he finally gets to meet Morpheus he is offered the choice to join them
and awakes in a tank of goo connected to dozens of hoses before being
ejected from the comfort of his pod.He discovers The Matrix and what he thought was his real life are
nothing but computer illusions with computers running The Earth and
using humans as a source of power. Basically this film is about the
ideas of reality, what is real? Using a lot of imagery and references
from Alice In Wonderland the film still looks impressive, has plenty of
action (maybe a little bit too much fighting) and a sound enough plot
and cast.Even if Keanu Reeves wasn't 1st pick to be Neo he still did a great
job. Carrie Ann Moss as Trinity looks incredible and Laurence Fishburne
plays his role brilliantly. Hugo Weaving is almost always overlooked as
Agent Smith but he is so deadpan its unreal.Despite being almost a decade old now the film is still more than
watchable even if it's ending is a little weak being left open for it's
sequel to explore.

******
21 February 2008
10
This film redefines two genres, science fiction, and action. Never
before was there a sci/fi film quite like this and never before was
there an action film anywhere near this. Keanu Reeves was born to play
the part of Neo, computer hacker/savior of the human world. His
character's naivety turns into unparalleled confidence as he, knowing
his destiny becomes willing to take on an empire of machines. The first
third is straight mystery, the second third is discovery, and the last
third is straight payoff. This is my favorite film and 10,000 years
down the line people will still be talking about it. The best sci/fi
film of all time and one of the best films of all time. You'll never
see anything else like it.

******
6 February 2008
8
Keanu Reeves, who has been dubbed as one of the worst actors of our
time, is actually extremely well-cast in 'The Matrix', one of 1999's
most enjoyable and imaginative thrillers. He plays Thomas Anderson, a
young man who lives his life in computers under the hacker pseudonym
Neo. He feels an emptiness inside of him, a cold darkness that he
cannot explain but he is determined to find out its source. His journey
begins when he is contacted by the voluptuous hacker Trinity (yes,
*the* Trinity who cracked the IRS d-base). He presents her with a
question."What is the Matrix?" As it turns out, The Matrix is the very world we live in, which
essentially lives up to be one big computer program whose purpose is to
serve a rogue A.I. that harvests our corpses for fuel. Fun, fun, fun.
Carrie-Anne Moss, one of my favorite, down-to-earth actresses, is
terrific as the sexy human agent Trinity. She seems like someone you
would fear but then run to for protection a second later. Reeves is a
great hero as Neo. Laurence Fishburne took his performance from this
better-than-average sci-fi and directly copied to into a smarter,
better movie, titled 'Akeelah and the Bee'. He plays Morpheus, who is
essentially Neo's Obi-Wan; a wise, methodical, prophet who happens to
tote huge guns and the strength to break handcuffs (and bones).The fight sequences are glorious fun, the film is rarely predictable,
and the performances are tuned just right. Even though it gets weighed
down with clichés near the end, 'The Matrix' is well worth seeing (it
visually LOOKS fantastic), or even owning a copy.3/4

******
5 February 2008
10
Believe it or not, in 2008, I still know people who have never watched
The Matrix (released 1999). Well, just one person... who may not even
be human, but that's part of my point: all thinking people should watch
this movie.It popularized "bullet time" special effects, which would then be used
in movies such as Swordfish, and video games such as Max Payne and,
more recently, Stranglehold.Although not directly related to William Gibson (the coiner of the
phrase "cyberspace" and one of the more respected English-language
Cyberpunk-genre authors), he would go on to comment that the virtual
reality portrayed in the matrix was as exact as he could have
envisioned it when he was writing his novels.Thusly, people who think about life and the "digital era", will tend to
identify on some level with the story, characters, and even virtual
worlds presented in the series, but esp. is this the first one (I'm not
a fan of the two sequels, but that's another story).Although I marked this as containing spoilers, I'm not going to really
go into the plot... but if you haven't watched it yet, then my
description may make it seem more philosophical than it appears; the
beauty of this movie is that it is, superficially, an action-packed
drama where you care about the characters, and can admire both the
"good guys" and the Agents.Moreover, the fun and freedom of interacting with a virtual world is
well presented; as are the consequences of becoming too ... attached,
or sympathetic, with a game-world (or perhaps, even reality).On another level, this movie is about how the "new world order", which
is really just the same old Imperial world order, just with shiny
computers to dazzle the mortals, imprisons the minds of the "mature"
(it is mentioned that people over a certain age usually cannot ever
truly adapt to seeing the world as it truly is), and also makes them
skitsophrenic (i.e. potential Agents) and prone to flashes of violence
against free-thinkers.This and Fight Club are very deep movies, on some level... but this is
also an intense action and special effects masterpiece which still
looks great even after almost a decade. It sounds great too; the "lobby
scene" is a standard for testing surround sound systems subjectively.

******
8 January 2008
9
In the dusk of the millennium, The Matrix was released to screens
worldwide, dazzling audiences around with it's kung-fu martial arts,
rapid-fast punches, impossible leaps, intense story and gripping heroes
and villains.Keanu Reeves plays the protagonist Thomas A Anderson, a program writer
for a software company, who also lives a double life hacking as "Neo"
while he searches for a man named Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne).
Carrie-Anne Moss plays Trinity, a gravity-avoiding woman who has so
much skill and precision who make anyone think she is a guy. You throw
in the rest of the cast and you've got a pretty good crew of resistance
against the machines.It sorta plays off as a Terminator-esquire type movie doesn't it? With
fictitious Neo as the Connor -prophetic, we will win because of him-
character. Even with that, I enjoy The Matrix for everything that it
is. It's a science-fiction action movie with tons of laughs and
heart-felt moments. I especially like the effects that were never used
before.Actors that do the kungfu moves are actually doing the moves and not
using stunt doubles. I hate when an actor is "believed" to be doing the
moves and they don't even know how even "pretend" to know the moves.
People will give grief for the romance subplot, but it's really not a
subplot since it's hinted at during the entire movie, it's just that
until the end, Trinity couldn't speak about it because she was afraid.I love how complex the plot gets near the end and I love the story
itself because it makes you question yourself, the world, and wonder
really - am I a program? It's one of the -- if not the -- greatest
films ever created and that's something to say because it's science
fiction fantasy. I am not alone in that statement, considering it won 4
Oscars, one in the category of special/visual effects. If you hate it,
I'd really like to know why.

******
28 December 2007
10
This film was so different from everything else I had ever seen when it
first came out. I remember the trailer showing such different visuals
then what I was use to at the time, like, why and how is that girl in a
black leather suit jumping from building to building. This was 1999 by
the way before the comic book superhero adaption film frenzy. So at
first I was just curious about it. I remember leaving some other film
and on my way out of the theatre noticing it was playing down the hall.
I just wanted to have a look at it to see what it was like. I opened
the theatre door and slowly sat in with the crowd already viewing the
film. You could tell the film was near its conclusion and I was in awe,
when I seen the slow motion camera work and advanced special effects.
Once I seen the movie from start to finish, it was officially my
favorite film. I think this is the action film that defines my
generation. The film was bold and daring, and pulled off more than it's
creators probably meant to. It completely redefined action films from
then on. I can't count how many films and video games, bullet-time has
been featured in after this film was released. The Matrix is truly one
of kind. What more can you ask for, The Matrix has an interesting plot,
the best intense action sequences and a cool soundtrack. It is a
classic of our generation.

******
30 November 2007
8
The Matrix is really a bit of "Plato's Allegory of the Cave" or the
original Chinese "Frog in a Well" allegory. It centers mostly upon the
more Buddhist idea of Two Truths, whereby the conventional reality that
we live in is often shaped by our own prejudices, fears and
insecurities. Perhaps there is also a touch of modern Situationalist
Philosophy: "life is a spectacle" mostly contrived by the status quo,
or powers-at-be and marketing forces around us.I must admit I am surprised by the number of negative ratings of this
movie. A bit over- rated, yes; but the movie hardly falls into the
category of 1 to 4 star reckless, low-budget movies (such as Manos; The
Hands of Fate) that have to try to be so bad.Philosophical messages are best conveyed as allegories. This movie is a
simple, yet important, allegory stretched out over 2 hours with enough
basic symbolism, special affects and action to appeal to almost all
audiences. The movie is designed to be thought provoking, and touches
upon basic philosophical questions that are rarely addressed in modern
movies. I have to wonder if audiences are somehow offended by the
intent of the movie, or if audiences are simply so stuck in Plato's
cave, the bottom of a well, so stuck in "the Matrix" as to totally miss
it.

******
26 November 2007
10
OK so who still watches out for glitches in the matrix?I am writing this review 8 years after its release because this film
still has an affect on people and the Movie Industry. Like Star Wars
(smaller scale obviously, I can see the faces of geeks everywhere going
red with anger) The Matrix generated a new group/cult/fan base of
followers across the world and influenced the way many action films
were filmed after 1999. Yes you may say slow mo action sequences have
been done before (Face Off 1997) and if you have seen any John Woo
films (see The Killer 1989) you will recognize the same fight moves
(which are timeless and I love). However nobody forgets The Matrix
because of the story and the characters and the biggest of big
questions (after the big bang debate) which is: "Is this real?"
Questioning our existence, no one can ignore the issue and that's why
this film hit the spot with audiences old and young and still does
today and for many years to come. Everyone questions there existence
even if you haven't seen The Matrix.The other two films were just fun/entertaining/money making/visually
stunning epics. It was just exciting to see Neo and his posse kick ass!
No story needed just more bullets hehe!Have you ever had a dream, that you were so sure was real? What if you
were unable to wake from that dream? How would you know the difference
between the dream world and the real world?PS John Woo made Face Off anyways.

******
21 November 2007
10
The Matrix is a film you can not miss. The Matrix is film that only
exist. The Matrix is the key to the answer you have questioned. I just
saw this film, it's been 8 years since it has been released and I have
heard so much about it. How it's a Sci-Fi type movie, yes it is. It is
also one of the greatest films ever made. Not just the originality or
the genius of it, but the ability to turn such an imagination into a
great masterpiece. The Matrix will make you think how someone thought
of this and how cool it is, yet scary. It will make you question what
is real and what is not real. You'll be wondering what the hell is
going on through the beginning of the film. But you'll find out, and
you will be so eager to find out what is going to happen next. You can
not miss this film, for it is a must see for all. You will not be
disappointed by The Matrix.

******
15 November 2007
10
This is one of my dads favorite movie of all time and he he kept on
saying you had to see this movie and then I saw it with him and fell in
love with it. I was shock The Wachowsiki Brothers did not get the best
original screenplay at the Oscars is shows what a true original story
is and is just nothing but brilliant. This film has one of the best bad
guys the infamous Mr.Smith. The acting was better good for being actors
that really don't like. This film didn't get any directing awards or
screenplay and that is just not right.The opening scene was one of my
favorite scene of all time and that just gets you hooked instantly to
the movie.This was a great film and I highly recommend this movie and V
for Vendetta.

******
26 October 2007
9
Undoubtly, One of the Best movies of the 99's. The Saga started
smoothly, with Style, almost shining and vibrating with energy
and...you get the idea.It has good action scenes(and helped with many special effects) it
makes it interesting to watch over and over. Main Protagonist its Keanu Reeves(Neo), with the help of Laurence
Fishbourne(Morpheus) and Carrie-Anne Moss(Trinity) has to find the
truth behind the Matrix he was living. Shocking truth.This world is
something virtual!oh the humanity! We actually live on ships, on a Huge
Sewer! Well...anyway, the movie has everything: Weapons, Kung Fu, Bad
Guys , a shocking story, a predictable love...simply complete. Too
bad.Neo's "The Chosen One" Fate...would affect the quality of the next
2 movies. Still a piece of Art.Buy it. Best Part: "When you eat the
cookie, you'll feel much better" Secret: Add 2 lbs. of "special flour"
to your cooking =D

******
23 October 2007
10
This movie is probably the best movie I've seen. I was
skeptical,because I normally don't like sci-fi imaginary stuff.Matrix is very hard to understand, but luckily my little brother was
there to explain it to me. It has the main character, Neo, and then of
course the team that controls the matrix. Neo is pulled out of the
world that we know and into a different world with computers and metal
machines and all kinds of high-tech gadgets. Neo is transformed and
then informed about the Matrix.The Matrix is an imaginary place controlled by computers, which we know
as our world. The real world is a rocky desert.In this movie, there is a constant battle between the Police Agents and
the people on Neo's side.

******
22 September 2007
9
When I first saw the trailer it thought it would be a good movie but It
was much better then I had expected. The fighting scenes were great u
could see that they spend lots of time on it and the special effects
were amazing I haven't seen much movies with such good effects. I don't
think Keanu reeves I a real good actor but in this movie the did it
very well. He really put his character neo good on screen and with the
combination of Morpheus and Trinity in the scenes the had a good
overall effect in the movie. The camera angles were amazing and gave
the stunts much nicer looks. If u haven't seen this movie yet u should
and give the other parts a look to hope u will enjoy the movies and
post if u think u got something to say about the movie ore any other.

******
9 August 2007
9
Rated R for sci-fi violence and brief language Quebec Rating:13+
Canadian Home Video Rating:14AI got the Matrix when it first came out on VHS.This was when I was in
the first or second grade.When I saw it back then, it blew my mind.It
still blows my mind.This is the best Matrix film in the trilogy.Matrix
Reloaded was almost as good as this one but I find that I can watch
this one over and over again which I cant with the second film.The
third film Matrix Revolutions was a major disappointment.I have only
seen it once but it was a very disappointing end for the trilogy.It was
still mediocre.I have not seen this film in a while so I do not
remember the storyline very well.But what I can tell you is that "The
Matrix" is a film with an interesting plot and is filled with tons of
cool action and sci-fi sequences.Sci-Fi and action fans will love this
movie!

******
28 July 2007
10
I am just not sure whether or not the Wachowski brothers should have
made a sequel. This one was fine on its own, and let's all remember
that the 2nd movie came about 4 years after this. If they wanted to do
a sequel, they might have wanted to do it sooner. But anyway, the
movie.Okay, here is how it goes down (for those of you who don't want to know
what happens and figure it out on your own, I suggest you don't read
this, okay? But don't worry, I won't tell the ending): Our main
character is Thomas Anderson (Keanu Reeves), a businessman for a
software company. He also is a computer hacker who goes by the name
'Neo', and that is normally how he is addressed. Neo is wondering what
the 'Matrix' is. Neo is looking for a man who is called Morpheus. Neo
has been searching for him for a while. But what he doesn't realize
until a little later on when they have a chat, is that Morpheus has
been looking for Neo longer than Neo has for him. He believes that Neo
is the One. Someone who can stop a war. Agents (Sentiel programs) are
after Morpheus and anyone else 'free'. The agents are after Neo as
well. They want to get him before Morpheus does.When Neo and Morpheus meet face to face, Morpheus tells Neo that the
world he knows is a fake. A hoax. They call it the Matrix. So
everything that Neo had ever done in his life in the Matrix has never
happened. That would be so weird if our world was a fake and that the
real world is something else.Throughout the movie comes some dramatic moments and some awesome
action scenes that I will want to try and do eventually in the future.
This movie had a great plot line. Great action. A 10/10 for sure. Watch
this movie. It will blow your mind.

******
5 July 2007
9
Visually gripping. Mind-bending. A masterpiece of sci-fi, with a
brilliant story-line. Nothing stands before it, except Star Wars when
it comes to science fiction in cinema.Sure there are a good many ideas for science fiction, and many good
movies for it too, like the Terminator, Alien etc. But none are as
mind-bending as the Matrix. It involves a hacker by the name of Thomas
Anderson, a competent hacker, who soons learns through various run-ins
with the mysterious Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving) and the venerable
Morpheus (Lawrence Fishbourne) and his followers that the world he
lives in is a hoax, called the Matrix, and that the true reality is
that humans are kept in control of artificial intelligence, robots in a
word. Morpheus also imparts to him that he is the One, the One who will
save them from this unknown slavery. A whole new world is opened up,
and soon, Thomas Anderson morphs into Neo, And Neo is the One.Magnificent. I saw this movie after seeing Lord of the Rings and many
other special effects powerhouses, and I wasn't as impressed as I ought
to be by the Matrix, but still, I was amazed. The bullet-time was
revolutionary, and the effects still stun me.The plot is often stretched in the beginning, but is still absolutely
engrossing.The acting is quite good. Keanu Reeves, the hero, is overshadowed
unfortunately by Lawrence Fishbourne and Hugo Weaving, who are
magnificent in their roles as mentor and villain.Overall, a great REVOLUTIONARY movie. That is why is deserves its spot
in the top 250. It revolutionized its genre, showing a deeper more
complex side to science fiction.9/10

******
25 May 2007
10
im_veritas_photo = a critical, lonely, ignorant, needs to chill out
person. Who would watch matrix again you say? Well too bad cause
millions of people have and I'm one of them. You wonder why your not
impressed, because of how your mind works thats why. I'm sorry for not
accepting your stupid comment but, your putting down a modern classic
of film history. When matrix graced the screens it has impacted highly
throughout the world more than most films. Not everyone can be as
critical as you, stating every flaws you can see.Ask yourself, why do people watch films? Well if you have no slightest
clue then here it is, simple, so your closed mind can understand.
BECAUSE WE WANT TO BE ENTERTAINED AND WANT OUR MINDS TO BE OCCUPIED IN
ORDER TO GET AWAY FROM OUR REALITY. Truly matrix has done so in more
ways opening up an interesting concept of the future ahead, it's
projection of reality within reality is interesting.The whole message really is simple, our present world has been taken
over with technology to ease our lives. Only in the matrix they vent to
the possibility that with what is going on now it can create superior
advancements of machines if were not careful. Reeves and the rest gave
a great performance for their roles as well as being convincing with
the fight scenes. And who can forget bullet time!! If you can't
appreciate this film for it's amazing take on the sci-fi, kung fu,
action and romance, then clearly it isn't for you. So do all the fans
out there a favor and not put out hateful comments(without acceptable
reasoning), because naturally all those who appreciate this will
disagree and waste their time too defending this film, like me.

******
3 May 2007
7
When it came to watching the Matrix I went in thinking it was going to
be another one of those sci-fi films. But isn't, although it has flaws
it works. The storyline for one is fantastic, as is the direction but
the one thing that I think worked the best are the stunning visual
work. It is a good visual spectacular and it really makes the world
believable relying on sets as well as CGI. BUT there are flaws. The
acting for one is not top notch (exceptions Laurence Fishburne and Hugo
Weaving) I was not a big lover of Keanu Reeves never will be I just
didn't like the performance. Again it is good but it is not a classic,
in terms of the critics it is over rated but it will stand as one of
the most visually enthralling and most exciting picture of all time.

******
23 April 2007
10
Must have watched it 3 or 4 times over the years and the story telling
did not disappoint me every time. I must confess that I'm a sci-fi fan.
Those computers, machines and AI are futuristic things that never fails
to widen the imagination. But the part that captures me most is the
'regilious' part of the story telling.- "Everything is not real" in the Matrix world and so is our world
according to some religious teachings.- "Cause-and-effect" as described by the Frenchmen.- "Re-birth" of the several 'version' of the computer program is
synonymous to man's re-incarnation.- "Transient of animals/men to higher being" as told by Oracle.- "Messiah" - that's Neo of course.- "Believe" that fate and faith will save man-kind.There are lots of Kung Fu and special effects but they're just
garnishes. I'm impressed by the way the story is told.

******
21 March 2007
10
Im not going to elaborate too much on the plot of the Matrix because
there are whole websites and even books devoted to the subject. The
story revolves around the main character Neo and his evolution from
lonely computer hacker to the savior of the human race. Part of this
evolution is the realization that not all is as it seems in the reality
in which he lives in. If your any way philosophical or just like a good
sci-fi you cannot go wrong with the matrix. There's a strong religious
sub text apparent within the story and a lot of Neo's actions and
decisions seem to mirror that of Christ. It can also be looked at as an
allegory of modern day society and the control governments have over
their citizens. Whatever way you look at the matrix it will make you
think below the surface of the pretty visuals and the dynamic actions
scenes. These range from martial arts face offs against "agents" to
post apocalyptic worlds inhabited and controlled by strange machine
like creatures. The Matrix has a visual style like no other and it
deserves its spot in the top 250 films just for the story alone.Keenu Reeves was born for this role and delivers a very subtle but
effective portrayal of of Neo while Hugo weaving seems like he was
having fun playing the bad guy Agent Smith, Neo's nemesis. The score is
high tempo filled with modern dance and electro tracks. They fit
perfectly and come alive during the adrenaline filled fight scenes.
This is one film you really shouldn't miss. I've seen it at least ten
times and each time i discover something that i missed the first time.
Its a deep film with its own universe and philosophy that many people
(fans of sci-fi or not) will be fascinated by.

******
23 February 2007
10
The Matrix is truly one of the great films. It has some of the most
awesome actions scenes ever, pure originality, strong ideas and plot
lines, a great cast, deep hidden meaning and it makes the viewers think
about whats going on. Bullet time was truly excellent, the revelations
of Neo's true power was compelling and to finalise, it rules! The film
of the 90's by a country mile. Have to fill out ten lines. Okay, the
soundtrack was also awesome. Check out track 12 on the album (Du Hast -
Rammstein). One of the greatest tunes ever. The lobby scene was
spectacular, and there is also a lot of hidden meaning within the film.
Neo is an anagram of one, Morpheus was a Greek god of discovery (I
think), Trinity is a blatant reference to the holy trinity, the ship
Nebuchchadnezza is a Biblical reference to King Nebuch Chadnezza, the
other crew members - Mouse, Psyther, Switch, Apoc all reference
computers in some way, and the pilots and children of Zion - Tank,
Dozer both refer to mechanics in some way. It's awesome. P.S can people
stop bad mouthing the sequels? They were great films. People just think
they were bad because they compare them with this and that makes them
look bad. This film cast a huge shadow which was almost unbeatable, but
accept that they were still pretty damn good.

******
15 February 2007
8
Watching 'The Matrix' for the first time is one of those occasions that
really makes you go WTF! An intriguing and a rarely used concept is
translated successfully to the screen. Far from being a brainless
action- and effects-fest the film has a deep psychology behind it and
the result is simply astonishing.The only problem with the film is that it is at its best when watched
for the first time. After that the film kinda loses the intrigue it
originally had and this may explain the rather lukewarm response of the
film's sequels.As a cinematographic experiment the film is absolutely fantastic,
keeping the viewer glued to their seat with an interesting but not at
all complicated idea. After that one may only wish to see the film
again for its groundbreaking special-effects.

******
1 February 2007
10
With its extraordinary story and new cam-shot techniques used, that is
one of the best movie in the history. Its a shame Wachowsky bros took a
commercial way for the second and 3rd parts rather than stressing on
the deep philosophy of the first one. Especially with its pointless
end, the 2nd one was just an ordinary good action movie. Although the
characters seems far from having emotions since they grown up in cruel
life conditions and have no time to deal with human senses, its strange
to see the reason of revival of Neo and Trinity is coming from the
depth of their love. The performance of Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith is
also excellent. I think its a milestone movie.

******
28 January 2007
10
The Matrix is the first part of an action and science fiction trilogy,
probably the best of them, that not only shows a deep and brilliant
story through an imaginative, creative, and also breathtaking
screenplay that demands more than one view, but excellent photography
as well as a superb performance.The Matrix suggests the next step after Internet, everything is
available thorough the mind; all, faster, getting what you and only you
are able to admit, there are no limits but yourself, somehow about that
lies in the heart of that masterpiece. That suggested power doesn't
come alone, we are in a future near 2200 and machines save themselves
against humans, which are literally out, projecting their own reality
while providing machines their energy by doing it.I am in love about the characters, I love Morpheus, Trinity, of course
Neo, even MR. Smith, such a big love is only possible in masterpiece.
Who is Keanu Reeves? And who is Lauren Fishburn, I don't know and I
don't mind. And what can be said about action? Simply new, fresh,
quick, slow, strong, slight, the same time subtle and brutal, even
fine, plenty of sensibility. I know people able to read this has already seen the movie, I did more
than twice. I simply wanted to sign down my pure admiration for that
story and demonstrate it here. Thanks to the Wachowski's and you for
reading. Watch it again, that's my recommendation.

******
21 January 2007
9
Every so often a movie will come around to challenge the minds of the
people; make people think, "What if..." "The Matrix" was such a movie.
"The Matrix" took an idea that was not entirely original and took it to
another level. The concept of machines rebelling against their human
creators had already been explored in successful movies such as "2001:
A Space Odyssey" and "Terminator", but never had a movie dabbled with
the idea of machines being triumphant and eventually enslaving all of
humankind."The Matrix" as a story alone was extraordinary. The Wachowski brothers
obviously put a lot of thought, time, and energy into the story alone
because it is without equal. The story itself triggered thoughts of
"What if we are plugged into a matrix? How would we know?" And it also
spawned many contemplative conversations all over the country if not
the world. The Wachowski Brothers covered even the most minute detail
with regards to the matrix: its origin, its function, its current
state, and it flaws. Each scene and each conversation seemed to be
carefully chosen and put together so as to convey the plausibility of
the matrix.Then coupled with the great story was almost equally fantastic
directing and special effects. Before "The Matrix" none had tried or
adequately tried the still shot and pan. Almost immediately into the
movie we get to see a shot of Trinity (Carrie-Ann Moss) jumping in the
air, then being frozen perfectly still while the camera pans around
her, before she proceeds to kick butt. This movie had no shortage of
special effects and action blended it perfectly with critical and
revealing dialogue.

******
18 January 2007
10
What is The Matrix? Well, after it took the whole movie world by storm,
and spawned a series of copy cat action movies, you would have to be
living in a cave to not know what The Matrix is.Basically (and I mean basically), a simpleton named Thomas Anderson, is
contacted by his hacker alias Neo by someone who is connected to
Morpheus: a person who he is looking for. In a series of strange
events, he finally meets Morpheus, who turns the world he knows upside
down. He is told that the world he had been living in was not real; a
dream world, and that the real world was nothing like it. Cue in some
smart dialog, philosophy to engage the average person, and some mind
boggling visual effects and that is the essence of The Matrix.The lead actors do an impressive job as uber-hackers, and Keanu Reeves
gives us his defining performance as Neo. Laurence Fishburne plays the
ever-wise Morpheus and Carrie Anne Moss gives us a warrior woman worthy
of a place amongst Sigourney Weaver and Linda Hamilton as Ellen Ripley
and Sarah Connor respectively.The Wachowski Bros. did an astounding job of directing this movie. They
brought out the "cool" in the geeks (most of them are hackers), and
made some of the most scariest antagonists ever to grace a film; the
ubiquitous agent is a relentless machine, tracking down any rogue
person in the system. They have an uncanny ability to give The Matrix
multiple layers: the first layer is purely action. Peel that off and
you have a very good story. Peel it even more and you have some
fundamental questions that may make you even question whether or not
you live in a dream world.Arguably their greatest pieces in this movie are the action sequences:
The lobby scene and bullet dodging scene stand out the most, but the
rest are of high quality as well. I expect everyone thought Episode I:
The Phantom Menace would outshine all other movies visually in 1999,
but that is not so.Whether you want to see a pure action movie, a smart sci-fi flick or
some subliminal messages to really screw with your mind, watch The
Matrix. It's definitely worth your time.

******
11 January 2007
10
On March 31, 1999, The Matrix, undoubtedly one of the greatest films
ever produced, was released into thousands of theaters worldwide.
Directed by the Wachowski brothers, The Matrix tells the story of a
confused, questioning, Thomas Anderson, a computer programmer by day
and a notorious hacker by nightalias: Neowho is searching for an
answer to a question that eludes him: what is the Matrix? He is visited
by a man named Morpheus who tells him that he can answer the question
which Neo so desperately seeks the answer to; that he can show Neo the
truthhe can show Neo "just how deep the rabbit hole goes"if he wishes
it, and so he does. Neo learns from Morpheus that he has been living in
a completely fabricated reality known as the Matrix; a computer
generated dream world created by an advanced artificial cybernetic
intelligence systemthat now rules Earthfor the sole purpose of
keeping humans blissfully content as they are unknowingly grown in
endless fields and then harvested for the energy that their bodies
emitas they are transformed into batteries for the machines. Morpheus
frees Neo from the oppressive shackles of this "reality" and Neo finds
himself catapulted to the vanguard in a war between the pitiful
remnants of mankind and the awesome machines that now rule the world.
The Matrix manages to combine a stunning array of ingeniously filmed
visual effects and intense stylized action with a plethora of
philosophical and theological allusions and symbolismsomething
precious few other action films ever manage to achieveand it is this
featthe melding of thought-provoking intellectual concepts with the
usual commonplace high-paced actionthat makes The Matrix such a unique
and truly exceptional movie.The Matrix continually ponders philosophical questions sporadically
throughout its entirety. Chief among these are questions concerning the
nature of reality, truth, existence, and destiny. The Matrix is, in
fact, a modern day retelling of Plato's Allegory of the Cave. Neo,
being the prisoner who is freed from his bondage and dragged into the
world of light, who, when confronted with the painful, naked truth,
finds himself unable to comprehend and accept it at first, until, as
his mind and eyes adjust, the truth comes into focus and he is able to
see and grasp reality for what it truly isno longer tricked by the
ghostly apparitions of his old existence; of what he once believed to
be real and true.Besides inundating its viewers with a deluge of philosophical themes,
The Matrix also presents a veritable feast of theological and mythical
allusions and symbolism. Many of its locales, characters, and objects,
are based, either explicitly, off such topics, or, if not quite as
evidently, still cleverly alluded to, and clearly discernible. Zion,
mankind's last city, the Oracle, a guide who assists Neo in his
questmost assuredly based off of the legendary Oracle of Delphi that
assisted Socrates along his paththe Nebuchadnezzar, Morpheus's ship,
and Morpheus himself are some of the more readily apparent references
to historical, mythical, or theological objects.However, The Matrix also plays host to a variety of more subtle, yet
nonetheless important, thought-provoking, and intriguing references.
Many aspects of the plot, themes, and characters presented within the
movie directly correspond and run parallel to many of Christianity's
themes, biblical stories and characters. Although the story of The
Matrix is most closely aligned with ancient Greek and Christian themes
and stories, that is not to say that its exploration rests solely
within said respective domains.; for The Matrix also delves into many
other realms besides those of Christianity and philosophyHinduism and
Buddhism being just some of them. The many allusions, symbols, and
philosophical aspects of The Matrix are what makes it truly one of the
best movies ever made; it is these aspects that propel it from simply a
great action flick to preeminence.

******
28 December 2006
8
Buddhist themes? That's doubtful. I think it is very much in tune with
Christian beliefs...I mean come on...Zion, The One, Trinity,
Nebuchednezzer...!! Those are all terms seen in the Bible. I thought
the movie was awesome, but knew many wouldn't appreciate the underlying
foundation to it. And also, I forgot his name, but the one who betrays
Morpheus...he could definitely be linked to Judah, when he betrayed
Jesus. If you approach "The Matrix," with a religious mind set, it is
easy to see and point all of this out. I think had I just gone in to
watch "another action movie," I would not have gotten the same stuff
out of it.

******
18 December 2006
10
I believe a movie can change one's life in good ways...the inspiration,
the style, the lessons learned...WOW. THE MATRIX does all of that for
me and more. Ever since I saw it, It's been my favorite movie of all
times and so far no other movie has been made that could take its spot
in my books. Keanu is cool as ever in the role of NEO...MY NEWEST
COOLEST SUPERHERO. He's up there with superman...amazing fight
sequences just grabs the attention at high levels and the plot is
intriguing in many ways. So many hidden messages throughout the whole
movie that you literally have to watch over and over again to get them.
OVERALL, this is the GOD OF ALL MOVIES.

******
16 December 2006
10
Most sci-fi films over the years have been the same: good vs. evil,
space, monsters, etc. But The Matrix gives a mix of none of that. It's
simple why the Matrix is considered among the best sci-fi films ever
made. It defies the ordinary science fiction film, turning it into
something out of this world. It is a combination of kung fu (martial
arts) styled fighting, shootouts, future controversy of Artificial
Intelligence, and amazing visual effects. With this combination, the
film is impenetrable.It is loaded with non-stop action, contains a great storyline, and has
some of the best and highly unusual camera angles ever used in modern
cinema. the casting was well chosen, particularly with Keanu Reeves as
the hero Neo and Laurence Fishburne as the wise mentor Morpheus whom
are both underrated. This is an awesome film that could never be
forgotten. easy **** out of **** If you haven't seen this film, you're missing a lot!

******
15 December 2006
10
I love the matrix. The martial arts scenes are captivating and Keanu
Reeves is as hot as ever! Costuming is fabulous, all that leather.
Lawrence Fishbourne has charisma. The take on the future role of AI is
much stronger than that of the movie AI which certainly made many of us
fear the Blue Fairy since she obviously failed to help the poor
helpless robot. How many of us have felt we live in a Matrix? At times
the bustle of everyday life make us feel as if there is little or no
control over our actions. The Matrix provides hope that one day our
question will be answered, What is the Matrix? Let us hope that we
discover it sooner rather than later.

******
5 December 2006
10
This movie is the greatest movie i have ever seen. Larry and Andy
Watchowsky are geniuses. I love it everything is grate. This movie is
about a man who is a computer hacker called Neo. One day a woman called
Trinity calls him and tells him about the "Matrix" and she want's to
show him what it is. Next thing he knows he is with a man called
Morpheus. He tells him what the matrix is and takes Neo to the real
world. The real world is almost controlled by machines but there is
only one city left on the planet because the machines have destroyed
all the others. The matrix is what everyone are living in or what we
call the real world and everyone are plucked in to him. Now Morpheus
tells neo that he is the one, that he is suppose to save the world from
the machines. But there is also another problem, when you are plucked
in to the matrix there are guys called "Agents" who are trying to
destroy the guys who are against the machines. Now Morpheus takes neo
to a training programs where he learns all this cool fighting styles.
After that Morpheus takes neo to the oricel. But when they have left
her agents come and they have to escape. There is one of the guys who
escapes but he is a traitor and kills the guy who lets them in and out
of the matrix. While that happens agents get Morpheus and try to get
the security code to Zions(the last city) main computer. Then Neo and
Trinity go in to the matrix to save Morpheus and they make it. When
they are on the way out of the matrix an agents comes and neo and him
start fighting and in the end Neo kills him and then he believes that
he is the one(he didn't believe it before).

******
4 December 2006
10
This movie is better than Star Wars, matter of fact it's better than
any other SCI FI film that's ever come before it. Most cause of the use
of new technologies and how they matched the storyline so well. This is
a definite Must See for any serious movie buff. Heck they even have
Philosophy courses that use the movie for examples. It's that good.
And, of course the Bullet-Time is awesome. Thanks to Sxean Lee-David
for helping creating the Idea of using 3 dimensional rotating cameras,
the Wachowski's merely had the money and talent to do it, and called it
"Bullet-time". So there you have it. I must've watched the movie dozens
of times. Presently, I heard that Sxean and the Wachowski's are
conjuring up a new movie, code named, "The Axis". I can't wait to see
this. and it's nice that the Wachowski's are still working with Sxean
to see his ideas and dreams materialize. What great guys those
Wachowski brothers are !

******
27 November 2006
10
All the negative opinions about The Matrix around here make me believe
that most of the viewers did not take their time to actually UNDERSTAND
what the movie's all about.All the sci-fi, specialFX, kung-fu stuff is nothing but a veil to
conceal the philosophy (or the truth) which the trilogy reveals to
those that make some effort and think about it for a moment.What we have there? We've got people fighting machines that keep
hostage other people who are encarcelated in oniric reality created and
controlled by the machines. Things emphasized throughout the whole
trilogy are THE CHOICE and THE BALANCE who in the end turn out to be
essential to men and machines alike. Freedom of choice of men brings
balance to machine's calculations. Nevertheless it is men who are
subject to machines for the freedom of choice is in fact an illusion of
men calculated by the machines. The whole thing ends up optimistic
though - human nature proves to be uncontrollable. There's of course
more.What is The Matrix to The Reality? For a moment think of those who
shape your consciousness as of the machines that weave The Matrix. Who
are they? Are they one of us? Are you sure? Where do your options of
choice come from? Are these the only ones? Is your choice actually
YOURS? If not, what does it make of you? - Nothing but a CATTLE that
feeds the farmer (or a battery that powers the machine if you like).
Those thoughts scratch the surface of conspiracy by some people called
'theory'. I can see The Matrix in power everyday and in my country and
in full power every four years before the election day. Its is just as
Morpheus says "The problem is the choice" both to men and the lords of
the matrix. Catch my drift? "The Matrix has you."

******
26 November 2006
10
The story of this movie is written in multi layers. Each layer can
magnetize for deferent peoples. Because of this to many deferent
viewers can watch and enjoy it. the top layer is action with too many
special effects (Matrix). the second layer is a Sci-fi movie that can
nice for teenagers usually (Oracle). third layer that managed very
smartly and hidden is triller (The Creator). that is the part of story
can make deferent feel for viewers. the final layer is a deep
philosophy and religionists part of story. due to my personal
experiences just part of viewers that love this movie can get through
to this layer, This is the Xion (Zion).

******
25 November 2006
10
there is nothing more to say about matrix.Someone that understands
shows us the realities of the system in the movie.We can find ourselves
during the movie.It is just unbelievable.Because in every day we wake
up in our same lifes.Every step that we have taken in our life is the
same as the steps we take before.So in that point we are just living
same days.Somebody should say stop...And this is he neo or the brothers
you name it...Anyway someone had already said there is something is
terribly wrong and in this point we as the codes of the matrix should
wake up and follow our ral path.Wake up world just wake up and see what
we are in!!!

******
15 November 2006
8
The Matrix has become such an iconic movie that it's hard to say
anything new about it. I'm hesitant to try. Everyone knows it's a good
movie- and if they don't believe it to be good, they know it's a
well-loved movie. I, for one, love it, but I don't think it deserves to
be so high up in the Top 250.The Matrix is a good example of a movie that pretends to be about
something in order to keep your attention. The truth is that the story
in this movie is so good and the characters so engaging that it doesn't
need the message (be careful about getting too dependent on your
machines- they might kill you). The way the story is executed is also
nearly ingenious. When we first meet Neo (Keanu Reeves), a computer
programmer for a software business that sidelines as a black market
dealer in computer parts, we do not know the secret of the Matrix. The
Wachowski brothers do not reveal the secret till about a quarter of the
way through the movie- the perfect time to do it; any shorter, and it
wouldn't have been a shock; any longer, and the movie would have become
boring and there would have been less action, which is the real star of
this movie.Neo meets Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), a man proclaimed to be a
terrorist by the government through the media, who gives Neo the choice
between returning to his boring life and discovering the truth about
the Matrix. Neo's choice sends him and the characters he meets into
intense gun-and-fistfights. In between the action sequences, Morpheus
spouts some philosophical tripe that could be considered deep, but
there's really no life behind it; I didn't care. The movie is fun, and
that's all that matters.I don't think it's a great movie, but that doesn't matter. If you're
just looking to have fun and sit on the edge of your seat for a few
hours, then this is a great movie for that.

******
15 November 2006
9
When I left the cinema after watching the Matrix, there were so many
questions in my mind, so as in my friends'. It's been quite a long time
I haven't seen a film drew so much attention and provoked so many
debates on the Internet. This is surely one of the best films covering
a wide range of issues.The film starts as ordinary as it can be, and later followed by some
strange incidents. Not until meeting with Morpheus and Trinity does Neo
realise that he's not in the real world he supposed to be, but in a
computer-simulating world. He makes his decision to escape from this
artificial reality to fight with the computer, maybe better called a
programme.The development of the story is quite smooth and unexpected (of course
I haven't read any reviews or plot outlines before I went to the film).
The visual effects can be said to be excellent even we see them with
the most up-to-date standard. Some classic action scenes are also taken
in other films all over the world for so many times. Die-hard marital
arts fans may not be well satisfied with the actions (after all they're
quite computerised), but I would say it's up to an acceptable standard.The idea of the whole film is kind of abstract through the film, but
the central idea to me would be decision-making and beliefs. When
something you hear from a stranger is out of your knowledge but seems
to be very serious, what will you choose and believe? What can you do
with your own power? Do you have the courage to change or fight? The
way you live is really in your hands, but the truths in the film may
sometimes really terrifying.This first film of the trilogy is surely the most balanced and coherent
in the same series as you'll see the failure to handle postmodern ideas
afterwards, but if you finish this one, you can't help watching the
other two. This is undoubtedly a must-see, even for those who aren't so
much into sci-fi, as good films have no boundaries. Just enjoy it!

******
11 October 2006
10
All of the films that people say are great are all from the last
millennium (Titanic, Schindler's List, Jaws, etc.), and this
masterpiece of a sci-fi flick proves that case further. This is perhaps
the most gripping sci-fi film ever made, with a rich, original plot
that will not ever make you turn away from the screen. The acting is
good, and while there are no life-changing performances, it is still
believable and not wooden. But the main premise of the film lies in its
superb effects, which have inspired many spoofs and budding sci-fi
fans. The "bullet time" sequence, which happens exactly two hours into
the film, is easily the most famous, and just shows the level of
technical expertise that went into this film, expertise that has still
not been equalled to this day. This film can be a little bit odd in
parts (the young boy who bends spoons with his mind at the Oracle's
place is definitely a bit strange), but which good sci-fi film isn't?
The screenplay is also good - many memorable lines and scenes are
delivered, and Morpheus always sees it right to hammer home a memorable
quote every few minutes. Even the "blue pill/red pill" scene beats off
competition from epic fight scenes in higher-budgeted sci-fi flicks.
Though most films of The Matrix's calibre may not be Oscar winning
material, this one sure is, and won four very well deserved Academy
Awards that are entirely justifiable. Even though the Wachowski
brothers may not be names you hear so often, their achievements shall
never be forgotten in this film that is more than a cult classic - it's
an all-round classic.First rate effects, one of the brainiest scripts ever transferred to
paper, good direction, and many classic moments - the Matrix is the
undisputed king of sci-fi movies, and must be seen to be believed! Have
we got more advanced since 1999 or have we gone backwards? 10/10

******
15 September 2006
10
1999 had a great deal to go for it cinematically. Unfortunately, much
of what we were all breathlessly looking forward to turned out to be
more cold bath than hot stuff... case in point the first of the
disastrously bad Star Wars prequels, the Phantom Menace, which
apparently is the most successful Star Wars film ever...However, one film did live up to its hype, perhaps because it wasn't
rammed down our throats for months in advance with advertising,
marketing and cults far in excess of anything seen before or since...
That film was the Matrix. This is not to say that the Matrix was under
budgeted. With funds in excess of $100 million it was an enormous
gamble by Joel Silver, throwing Keanu Reeves into another Sci-Fi
superhero role when the world had only recently recovered from Jonny
Mnemonic. But the Wachowskis stood by their nth choice man and Silver
stood by them as they tore around Sydney blowing up helicopters and
generally misbehaving. No one knew anything about it. Most of the
industry insiders, those who even knew about the Matrix, predicted a
massive flop. They were wrong. The Matrix kicked ass!Thanks to a brilliant advertising campaign, (remember asking yourself
just what was the matrix!?!) the film opened to full houses and, more
surprisingly, rave reviews which were completely justified. Using
seemingly brand new effects, like bullet time, as well as the novel
incorporation of tried and tested tools, such as wire work, the Matrix
took what could have been your average superhero and made him a human
being who was both fallible and liable to fail. At no point in the
movie does the conclusion feel foregone and, with the brilliant twist
around Cypher, there is a real sense that Neo mightn't succeed... and
when he does it all the more enthralling because of it.Credit for all this lies with the Wachowskis, who seemed to have every
single moment planned out to perfection before filming. Similarly
Reeves deserves praise, for taking advantage of his perceived
weaknesses as an actor to create the Anderson/Neo character. Lawrence
Fishburne is also great, delivering a performance perfectly balanced
between seriousness and pantomime, while Carrie-Anne Moss' Trinity
provides much of the soul of the Matrix, especially given that she's no
damsel in distress. Of the remaining actors both Weaving and Pantoliano
deserve much praise for their roles as bad guys, the latter doing
remarkably well to make as odious a character as Cypher three
dimensional while Agent Smith has to be the coolest villain since Darth
Vader. Finally we shouldn't neglect Joel Silver in all this. Producer
of what must have seemed like the biggest loss maker since Waterworld,
Silver instead gave us one of the best films of the 1990's and a movie
that will continue to excite future generations of action fans. His
courage in bringing the Matrix to our screens should not be forgotten,
although the missteps made with the sequels are not entirely
forgivable.All in all the Matrix represents the culmination of a great deal of
work and thought that, should any of the principle people involved have
not believed in it 100%, we would probably have never even seen, let
alone enjoyed. The film is second to none for juxtaposing philosophy
with martial arts, but drives across its messages about Mankind's over
reliance on technology without making the audience uncomfortable at
being preached to. Overall there is very little that can be held
against this movie and, despite the rather debatable suggestion that
violence can be the answer, it works well for the younger and older
crowds alike. If you haven't seen it then I cannot recommend it enough,
but that is unlikely to be the case for many of you!

******
8 September 2006
7
Normally I do not like action movies with many scenes that are
impossible in real life.In this movie it is acceptable as it is all going on in a virtual
world. Neo and co are like "computer viruses" that are breaking into
the system.Although: Dialing in with a regular phone seems a bit odd to me. Of
course Broadband and ADSL connections were not usual to use by the
common public in the time the movie was made (and it existence was not
known well). The idea that the injuries you get in the virtual world
"gets over" to the real world is good (otherwise all battery-men in the
real world will only die due to aging). But it does not explain why Neo
arises at the end of the movie. If the Matrix-guards are able to change
building from one moment to another, why do they only use guns to kill
people? They must be able to change other things too (like eg water
flood, sickness, ...). But I must say if they did that, the movie would
be too complex.

******
29 August 2006
10
I love the movie series, but some recent information proves that WB and
the Wachowski Brothers lied about the origins of "The Matrix":http://www.slccglobelink.com/media/storage/paper442/news/2004/10/28/
Entertainment/mother.Of.The.Matrix.Victorious-785067.shtml?
norewrite200608291346&sourcedomain=www.slccglobelink.comIt seems She wrote the original manuscripts for "Matrix" and
"Terminator", not them.Otherwise, a great series!The Premise that Reality is perception and vice versa is great.I only wished they hadn't killed Neo. But, you never know. Others have
been resurrected before, maybe he will be also.

******
29 August 2006
9
The Matrix movie is special in action, plot, character quality, and a
big hit phenomenon. The special effects are never before seen and
outrageous beyond all standards of action sci-fi movies. Direction and
Action is spectacular far beyond Steven Spielberg' Saving private Ryan.
The whole idea of the movie is shear brilliance and could Kenuea Reeves
be more perfect for Neo. His acting is what makes this movie a terrific
one. The rest of the characters are unmatched, uncommon and rare. Even
the plot is rare and well thought of. It's movies like this that make
you feel great to live in this era. Two thumbs and toes up! 9 out of
10.

******
24 August 2006
10
For all of those hardcore Matrix fans who see some sort of religion in
The Matrix and everything... they've seen all of those animated shorts
on the internet and DVD... and they know all of this and that that so
many other people who just wanted to see a goddamn movie do. I loved
The Matrix... The First One... and the only one in my opinion!
Everything that you really need to know about The Matrix is in this
film... the next two just go to far with their "Themes" and
"Intelligence" are are "Way Too Over The Top"... they're good... but
they just don't top this at all whatsoever! The Matrix... is an awesome
film... and I reckon it goes well with the film V For Vendetta.

******
21 August 2006
10
As far as acting goes its not a groundbreaking movie but thats not
important because its not so much acting in this movie is needed but
explanation and philosophy is! I remember when I saw a glance of the
Bullet Time sequence in the trailer at home and I was amazed. I had
never seen anything like that in a film before and as soon as I did see
it I knew I was taking a visit to the cinema! The plot of the one's
journey is a brilliant story, the special effects and the free ideas of
these effects are astounding, the martial arts, the style of the film
is cool and the sounds and music chosen fit nicely. As much as you
could criticise Keanu Reeves acting it was his performance and look in
the movie that made it work and I couldn't see anyone else playing the
part of Neo. Hugo Weaving a brilliant actor though loved his portrayal
as agent Smith. I gave it 10 and it should have been left as just this
1 film! The Matrix had me!!

******
22 July 2006
10
How did they make this movie!!!! This movie is proof. The Matrix is real, it's controllers have a movie
making code that can bring humans the ultimate movie watching pleasure,
and that they can travel back in time in order to enslave our minds
with this WHOPPING MOVIE!!! Which is more perfect?The story? The Dialogue? The special effects? The action stunts? The
ambiance? The acting? The love story that's so unbelievable it could
only be believable here? Which is more perfect? my head could explode.
. .Speaking of head-exploding mystery. . . How did the people who made
this movie make Matrix 2 and Matrix 3 so bad? There are movies that are: too violent, too profane, too 'wrong', too
sexual, too subversive, too decadent, but I've never seen a movie like
this, Matrix is so powerful it boarders on needing to be banned for
it's realism, something. Our psyches and intellects are too fragile for
this. You might be wondering... Blue pill or Red pill? Check out my other
reviews and see which I took... How did they make this movie!!!!

******
22 July 2006
10
I remember after seeing The Matrix for the first time that I was blown
away by the combination of an excellent script, amazing special effects
and innovative cinematography. Rarely does a movie produce the wow
factor so forcefully. The 2nd and 3rd while technically advanced, could
not much the intrigue of the 1st's plot. I recently visited The Matrix
exhibit at Movie World (Gold Coast, Australia) and it was awesome to
see parts of the set (mostly from Revolutions). I've seen The Matrix
more than a dozen times and I still love it. I only wish more movies
were as interesting and mentally challenging as the first Matrix. No
doubt they are out there, however the studios prefer to serve up
popcorn-trash that doesn't require the average Joe to think.

******
2 July 2006
9
The Matrix is one of the most original sci-fi films ever and I wanna
congrats the Wachowski bros. for making a script so original like this
one.The special effects of this movie are great,too.The matrix is very
fun and original and through the years,it will be a film remembered as
a classic of sci-fi.But not everything is perfect:the love story
between Neo(Reeves) and Trinity(Moss) is very forced.But the movie is
so good that I excuse that.The way in which Neo destroys Agent Smith is
excellent,like another special effects of the movie.The Matrix is a
very original film that I totally recommend and the Wachowski bros.
deserve congrats for this movie.

******
30 June 2006
10
I think this must be the real science fiction. Technology was used
perfectly, idea was great, players are all great, I really freeze on my
chair after beginning to the end of movie. I think Keanu Reeves was a
great selection for a movie like this. The perfection of this film
depends on the probability of all these may true. You can't prove it or
you can't deny it with any objective evidence. Especially the final of Matrix was great, It's an epic masterpiece I
think.2. and 3. movies are may be unnecessary and the magic was disappeared
for my point of view, They may be great box-office score but, (I
think). The magic of 1.st movie dissolved and these films are ordinary
(good but ordinary) films. 10/10 for this masterpiece.

******
22 June 2006
10
OH my god! Words cannot define how great this movie is! This was the
greatest movie of the Millennium in my opinion--or at least the
greatest action movie. It took me four years until after this movie
came out to actually sit down and watch it. OK, some people who watch
this probably sit down through the first half hour and get bored,
you're supposed to watch the whole movie. Once you get to the kung fu
fighting later on, this movie will not let you go. This movie is the
most spoofed, most ripped off (though this movie takes lots of stuff
itself), and in fact is the most inspirational film ever.Let's start off with the plot. In the future mankind celebrates over
their on creations, which are machines and AI. Machines become slaves
and revolt, a war starts, and the machines win of course. You really
didn't think humans would win did you? So in return every surviving
human on the planet is placed inside of a huge computer system called
The Matrix which is an artificial dream world. Some time after wards, a
man actually gets free and starts freeing people. Our movie starts with
Trinity (Carrie Ann Moss) struggling to escape the grasp of agents
which are sentient programs meant to keep people like us in line.So after she escapes, it turns into a battle for Trinity and the wise
black dude of this movie Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) to find Neo
(Keanu Reeves) and free him from the Matrix before the agents get him.
From here, I'll let you watch. This movie is one that you have to watch
twice to get everything. Plot rocks.Action scenes. Oh, if you say they are lame you should be neutered so
your perfectionist genes can't contaminate the population. All of the
fight scenes are well delivered by Yuen Wo Ping in this film. The
addition of guns in this movie worked well too. All I can say is they
rocked.Acting. OK, acting is good. Sometimes it's a little cheesy, but every
scifi movie needs it. Keanu Reeves has more energy in this movie rather
than his monotone non inspired voice in the sequels.This movie was well delivered in terms of mixing plot with action. It
had the cool scifi plot, so when we got to see the action it felt like
a big reward. This movie is a must see for action fans or scifi
fans--or even movie fans in general. If you haven't seen it you better
read the next few lines and go see it. SEE IT NOW! 10/10

******
17 June 2006
10
When I first saw this film I knew nothing about it save that it looked
cool. I was sucked into the world immediately and I believed and still
believe it's plausibility. Reality is a great subject to play with in a
film and there is no better reality spin than the one in this film.
What we know as truth is a lie and what we never could believe is the
absolute truth. Reeves does a great job, none better. He has the
perfect blend of innocence and charm and inner strength and "go for it"
attitude. One of my favorite things about this film is that the
writer/directors are from my old home town of Chicago. Chicago has
produced a lot of great comedians as well as hard core actors and
writers. There is something gutsy about people from the Midwest. And
this film is a great example of out of the box thinking.

******
13 June 2006
10
I love The Matrix. I remember seeing it my first time...I had no clue
what was going on because my friends were talking too loud. So I didn't
like it as much as I should have, but i bought it anyways. FINALLY I
knew what was going on. And i loved every bit of it. The movie is cast
perfectly. From Keanu Reeves as Neo to Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith, I
feel the actors captured their roles perfectly. The plot was so
incredible...The whole 'what is reality' aspect had me freaking out.
I'm sure it had more than 1 person scared of it being the truth.The visual effects in this movie are stunning, even as compared to many
of todays higher-technology CGI effects. The most famous of all of them
being the Neo bullet dodge sequence, spoofed in more movies than I care
to think of. But thats just fluff-the meat of this movie is the movie
itself.I have seen this movie to many times. I can say the lines before even
the actors do on screen. And i never tire of it. Just writing this
makes me want to watch it again. And if you haven't, go watch it. Now.
And answer the question that drives us- what is the matrix.

******
22 May 2006
10
Please don't read this if you haven't seen matrix.First I saw The Matrix in theater without any knowledge about the film
nor my friends hadn't seen it.I'm a coder with weird mathematic background since I was born but still
I can be objective with things like this.The Matrix script hadn't really any new ideas. The whole movie is very
illogical and acting is really cliché way. Still my opinion of this
movie is that it appears to be most original scifi movie of the 90's.The thing was that whole movie was put together thinking everybody,
first rule of making money. The ones who doesn't understand this "geek"
thingy, they get real nice action and effects etc., drama lovers get
their kind of love story, geeks get their "whoa"s and real movie freaks
get the whole picture. First time when I watched this movie I was like
"huh?" when it ended. I sure thought it was just starting and looked at
clock .. No other movie had never done this to me.The battery idea is funny even if everyone says its stupid. Hey, some
humor? Thats the mainstream crap ;) Then those pathetic "I KNEW IT, HE
IS THE ONE!" etc. boring crap, well, there are very very young kids
watching that film and there is a hero, so i don't really think it was
so annoying. People who saw this in year 2000 or later they probably
think "what.. i've seen this, basic crap again". I think that makers of
this movie were aware of that at the time, they just wanted to make
their thing and knew it would be copied later in other movies. Thats
probably why Matrix 2 & 3 were so .. well, so different. If I
understood correctly they had them written long ago before starting,
they might have had to blow up some scenes to get any attention.I think Matrix is the Star Wars of 90's. Don't you think Star Wars
ideas were copied in many movies after that? ..and I didn't really like
those prequels, third was "okay". Good bless Jar Jar ;)

******
15 May 2006
9
Here is an action movie that keeps you thinking. It is endlessly
intriguing with its metaphors and the grandness of its premise.Reeves creates the illusion is YOU deciding whether to take the "red
pill" or the "blue bill". The tension pulling in both directions is so
strong even if you know which choice is demanded by the plot for the
Hollywood movie to continue.Most sci-fi movies feel like horse westerns in latex drag. This one
pulls you into a high tension alternate universe where you scarcely
dare breathe.The truth of what is going on is too complex to be explained in a few
pat sentences. It gradually has to be revealed. Usually sci-fi seems to
be aimed at young teens. This movie was aimed over my head. I loved the
stretch.

******
9 May 2006
9
This was really really good, and well-done...in my opinion, a very
important film for this generation. The Wachowski brothers' talent for
packaging philosophy in a way that's accessible to the average Joe,
really comes through in this stylish movie. The story of computer
hacker Neo's realization that his world - the Matrix - is nonexistent
and his subsequent filling of his role as the man who will set
everybody free is loosely based on "Siddhartha" and Buddhist ideas pop
up every now and then. It still is, however, primarily an action film -
the symbolism of the Matrix is still comfortably at one remove from
reality and thus the film is not as naked or troubling as, for example,
My Dinner With Andre. The action sequences are never clichéd and
sometimes funny (in a good way!) It's clearly a movie with an agenda -
to get people to think - and I thought it accomplished this objective
extremely well. Even though it's all symbolic, some parts (I'm thinking
of Smith's early interrogation of Neo) are still very disturbing. I
can't really think of anything to make this film better, except that
the characters so far have been rather flat for the most part (Smith
least of all, and Neo the most, although I'll refrain from bitching
about Keanu Reeves' acting). I'm told Smith gets more interesting in
the two sequels, but giving Neo a bit of a backstory and character
would have helped this film immensely. It's still very good though,
since the plot isn't very character-driven and thus can survive on its
own. All in all, it was surprisingly addictive in a very kickass way.

******
8 May 2006
7
There are a number of good reasons why The Matrix could not be a seen
as a serious study of modern urban culture. The modern city depicted in the film has two faces: one is that of
gleaming office blocks, the other is made up of the ruins of an
industrial past. In both cases, the city that is depicted is a vague
and generic representation of post-industrial urbanism. The new modern city portrayed is nothing more than a software program
which provides an all encompassing hallucination, keeping humanity
mentally 'occupied' whilst their bodies are used to power the
mechanistic 'real' world. Therefore, The Matrix is not a film about the physical dimension or
actuality of a city, nor a film which can tell us anything about the
future state of urban society. It is a paranoid dream of destruction which has been seen a thousand
times, for example in The Terminator, Total Recall, and Mad Max. However, by choosing to address the modern physical city by casting the
city as a program, the film highlights a range of ideas that are useful
for talking about the culture of the city. At this moment, communication networks and information exchange are
widely considered to be the most important forces shaping our
experience of modern urban culture. (adapted from Highmore, B.,
Cityscapes, 2005) orangewarm@yahoo.co.uk

******
3 May 2006
10
The matrix has to be seen to be understood, and you can't multi-task
when you watch it. Apart from anything else, if your doing something
like cooking or ironing you'll find that you've burnt something. The
whole idea of the matrix brings up a lot of questions about the human
existence, and of life itself, of what is actually real. When people
tried to describe the movie to me it didn't sound good, it sounded
rubbish and illogical - after all how can a movie about bending reality
and gravity to suit you be interesting? But it is, the idea that one
must work to understand the matrix and to control it both confuses and
enlightens you. There are so many questions raised, ones that humans
have been trying to answer since the dawn of time. It does in the end
come down to good vs. evil, in fact at points you can see where the
story coincides with religious belief, but this simply makes it far
more interesting. Then there are the fight scenes - and although they
look more like the actors are dancing rather than fighting are still
pretty good, and I think that was the effect they were going for
anyway. Most of the fighting is either a blood bath of guns or some
form of martial arts, and of course the material arts is perfectly
timed like it is in all Jackie Chan movies. The actors are brilliant
and fit their characters well, especially Hugo Weaving who was probably
my favorite. The dialog was deep and interesting, the jokes witty, if
not somewhat sarcastic and all in all the whole thing is incredibly
deep. After watching the matrix you will begin to wonder how much truth
there actually was in the movie.

******
24 April 2006
10
What can I say about this film. I must admit that I did not see this at
the cinema, in fact I watched in on DVD for the first time. To be
honest I wasn't really expecting much, and what I saw from trailers
etc. I did not think that this film would be to my liking. I thought
that it might be high on style but low on substance. How wrong was I,
when I watched the film everything all fitted into place, it wasn't
about Keanu Reeves trying to look cool, it has got a lot more going for
it, including some excellent twists and turns that took me by complete
surprise. Some of these twists were so good that I had to evaluate what
was going on at least once. One of the very few action films that can
be classed as being intelligent as well as good fun.

******
24 April 2006
10
Over the past few years, we've been inundated with a deluge of silly,
kitschy movies ranging from clichéd romantic comedies to Disney film
sequels and so on. I am glad to say that The Matrix is not one of them.
For once, it seems, we have a movie that manages to combine
entertainment and excellent special effects with actual depth.The Matrix does quite well in multiple areas, in fact, combining a
philosophically interesting (though rather old in philosophical
circles) premise with great special effects and action. There is also a
rich layer of symbolism that rewards multiple viewings (note the book
Neo has near the beginning of the film; it ties in with the
philosophical theme).

******
21 April 2006
10
This is easily one of the greatest movie I have ever seen in my life.
It anyone thing it's the modern technology which engrosses the audience
that can only be pure ignorance. Everything in perfect about the movie.
It stands unique in each and every aspect of the movie, the concept
behind the movie, the way the story is told, dialogs, photography,
action etc.It teaches a philosophy, some might say "Buddhism" that's partly
correct but the movie completely teaches you the philosophy that
Hinduism teaches. Onlything is it's told in a different manner to
attract the audience. If you notice the song/theme which comes at the
end of "Matrix revolutions", it's a Sanskrit slogan taught in Hinduism.
The dialogs are the best part of the movie. Every sentence is a
meaningful philosophy, excellently crafted words.Actions are great, provided you understand the philosophy behind it.
The matrix is crafted in unique style based on a great philosophy. A
must watch movie, I'll easily give 10/10.

******
12 April 2006
9
The only thing that spoiled this movie was its sequels. They cast such
an abominable shadow upon the original film that one just cannot give
"The Matrix" the highest mark. If they were shot by different persons,
with different cast, etc. it could have been neglected. Alas, the same
persons are doing it in. That is why "The Lawnmower Man" is better and
deserves a definite 10 out of 10.If you want to see how a brilliant movie can be destroyed by clumsy
sequels - this is a sheer example.As to the movie itself, it is properly done and is captivating. In "The
Matrix" everything is slick...9 out of 10. Thank you for attention.

******
11 April 2006
10
Just the time and dedication that went into this film was phenomenal
with the great work of Bruce Spence (The Trainman) Nathaniel Lees
(Mifune) David Aston (Mr. Rhineheart)and Hugo Weaving (Agent Smith) who
were included in the LOTR trilogy and the wonderful work of Barrie
Osborne who was also the producer of the LOTR trilogy so these 5 guys
gave the magic to the Matrix trilogy. The wonderful gunfights. The
incredible Kung Fu moves. And the sheer talent for the Visual and Sound
effects just gave the film that move that it needed. Every single
member of the cast gave that 10/10 in the films and i hope that they
will be in good films in the future coming.

******
6 April 2006
10
When this film came out surprisingly i heard nothing about it. One
evening a friend suggested to visit the local cinema to watch this film
that he heard it was good...nothing more. We came in late and the movie
had just started... Looks nice.... Why are they after him?... Sci-fi
Without any effects?....Let's see now... Red pill ,blue pill, witch one
should i take?....Huh...Holy...What?... I've been making these thoughts
for since i can remember my self....Can this be true?? The scenario is
brilliant and the effects are ahead of it's time no wonder why so many
films replicated them afterward. This film moved into position No1 in
my top film list the moment after he took that pill, it was like i took
it. Sci-fi films will never be the same again for me, it's hard having
to compare this film with any other sci-fi movie.This one has the best
surprise factor ever , and believe me i figured out from the start what
was happening in the (awfull) "Sixth Sense" Film. Although the sequels
didn't live up to anyones expectations i consider them good sci-fi
films and they complete the story of this gem.

******
19 March 2006
10
It was 1999 when I walked out of a theater in my hometown, feeling this
insanely big urge to read philosophical books, re-read everything of
PKD I owned and dodge imaginary bullets while doing cartwheels against
walls.THE MATRIX is one of the few (if not the only) movies that, I believe,
forces people to think AND is of great entertainment value. If you're
looking for a movie to both show you a good time and give you something
to think about, look no further. It is Philip K. Dick and William
Gibson made cool for the masses, without ever losing even a fragment of
its intelligence as a picture.What more can possibly be said about two --back then rather unknown-
directors who managed to craft a film whose each and every aspect is a
delight to witness on screen? There are very few film-makers in the
industry today who can create a film that flirts with pretentiousness
so wonderfully and actually manages to leave you off not bothered by
that fact one bit. Science fiction, underlying philosophy, symbolism
that is so vibrant you simply cannot miss it, beautiful cinematography,
sensational score, the greatest action scenes ever seen up to that day
(which have been since copied mercilessly) and a wonderful cast of
actors and actresses. Can it get any better? The story takes us along the journey of one Thomas A. Anderson, a
hacker known in cyberspace as Neo (KEANU REEVES). Thomas leads a rather
dull life anywhere outside his own computer, until the day he is heaved
out of anonymity and boredom by the mysterious TRINITY (CARRIE-ANNE
MOSS), subordinate to the legendary man Thomas/Neo has been searching
for years, Morpheus (LAURENCE FISHBURNE). The plot soon thickens, as
Neo gets more than he bargained for and comes to discover 'just how
deep the rabbit hole goes'. The male, aloof version of 'Alice' in this
phenomenal film gets thrown into a 'Wonderland' that proves to be cold,
alien and terrifying, but more real than anything he had so far
witnessed. Or is it? I will come out and state that I am a very big fan
of KEANU REEVES. Although fully aware that he is not among the best
actors out there, I am prepared to give him a chance to prove himself
as an actor in any of the projects he gets involved in. When I later on
heard that the original choices for Neo included Will Smith and Tom
Cruise, I cringed. KEANU becomes Neo in this film. There is a certain
style he has adopted for many years now in his acting, and for this
film, it works incredibly well. Venturing into the film alongside him,
you can feel Neo's insecurities, his hesitance to become what he is
allegedly destined to. A reluctant hero is all his glory, and KEANU is
very effective in conveying that. He pulls off the part of the leading
man wonderfully, and is framed by an equally capable cast. CARRIE-ANNE
MOSS counters the slightly feminine (or rather asexual) look and softer
personality of the leading man, and does so brilliantly. As Trinity,
she moves with the grace of a woman and the discipline of a mercenary.
It is no stretch to assume that two-thirds of the leading trio were
cast as such purposefully. The third person to complete the hero triad
is played by LAURENCE FISHBURNE, an actor for which, I am certain, no
words are needed. Strong leader, caring 'father' to his crew,
unyielding mercenary. LAURENCE slips into his part effortlessly.But surely, the greatest treat of this movie casting-wise is the
awe-inspiring villain, Agent Smith, played by HUGO WEAVING. What a
find! I have since then followed the man's career and was pleased to
see that he does as incredibly as he did in THE MATRIX. Although fully
convincing you the he is naught but a part of the machine world, HUGO
breathes life into his robotic character. A machine with personality,
you'll ask? I assure you that it is later on justified.THE MATRIX is well on its way of becoming a jewel of a movie for the
young ones to get to know, and the older ones to fondly remember.I urge you to watch this movie again if you have already seen it and
enjoyed it; you'll discover something new with every single viewing,
since the amount of detail in this picture is almost insane. Kudos to
the crew that worked so hard to achieve this result. If you haven't
seen it, rent it as soon as possible.This is not just a movie for people who (like me) enjoy comic books,
Sci-Fi, computers and Kung Fu. It's a movie for people who enjoy
well-crafted cinema. And if it gives you something to think about when
the credits roll under the booming tunes of Rage Against the Machine,
all the better.Love it or hate it, THE MATRIX is a revolution. One certainly not to be
missed.

******
18 March 2006
9
The Matrix is a fantastic film. It is visually stunning and offers a
story that i think if executed differently would be unbelievable;
however, i had no trouble accepting this gem of a plot. The special
effects of this film were second-to-none and almost every scene boasts
something original, unique and breath-taking. I was brimming with awe
whilst consistently being subjected to stunts which electrify, sharp
and stylish choreography, and camera work which shows the mark of
genius. Keanu Reeves trademark seriousness and focus was perfect for
the role whilst the acting of Carrie-Anne Moss and Lawrence Fishburne
was cool, sophisticated, and complimented the subtleness of the film
immensely. Joe Pantoliano's contribution to the cast list was also
clever and appropriate. The film is a work of art and I believe marks a
watershed in cinematic history for many reasons, most importantly-
computer graphics and administering original ideas. Bravo.

******
17 March 2006
10
i think it is a great movie i like the way neo doesn't know what is
about to happen to him and how Morpheus is better than him but when
they made matrix 2 and 3 i think they got worse and worse they got a
bit too into it they went a bit too far but they were all great and i
would love if they did make a 4th but i don't think they could continue
on with that story any more.i also liked the music within the entire
film its was great it really fitted the mood of each scene.but overall
i would give all the matrix films a 9 out of 10 they were all great.And
i also like the way they made the anmime matrix and the matrix game to
add it all up to the full story its was great fun playing the game and
great enjoyment watching the movies

******
13 March 2006
10
Amazing. Period. Nothing more needed to be said here. Have a nice day,
Mr. Anderson.Well, almost nothing more :PIt's not often a film comes along that I bother watching more than 2 or
3 times, especially not if it's a Hollywood production. Yet, here's a
film I can actually tolerate watching once a week. It has memorable
lines, settings and action. Good character development, a well
organized plot and a brilliant story all tied in with some phenomenal
directing. And now I can't wait to see V is for Vendetta.Hopefully March 17th hurries.---- Agent Smith: You hear that Mr. Anderson?... That is the sound of
inevitability... It is the sound of your death... Goodbye, Mr.
Anderson... Neo: My name... is Neo.----

******
18 February 2006
10
This film put in one word is groundbreaking. Unfortunately
groundbreaking doesn't even "cut the cheese." There are not enough
words in the English language to describe how good this movie is. Yeah,
it's that good!!The film's title "The Matrix" has become an extremely common term in
the English language. Kids will be pretending to dodge bullets and they
will yell "MATRIX!!!" or something like that. It is actually quite
amazing. Anyways, This film is incredible. The Wachowski brothers have
definitely created a masterpiece in the art of film-making. With
amazing visuals, amazing acting, and an amazing story, this movie is
definitely at the top of the best sci-fi movies ever made.10/10

******
15 February 2006
10
Personally, I believe that movies are about bringing dreams alive.
Nothing does that better than The Matrix. It'll keep you up at night
wondering. That's why they made the Animatrix, they probably got
bajillions of e-mails asking, "What about this, can you give me some
information about this?". Same thing happened with Star Wars, so they
put out all those technical books. The Matrix is also great because it
took a long time for those guys to come up with and organize. Now most
movies are thought up like, "Oh I wanna do a movie about... Capote!
Yeah!". This was the Wachowski brother's life's work...I think. I mean,
that movie was very complicated, and yet flowed very nicely! I can see
why a lot of people don't like it, as it's just too weird for them. As
for the rest of us, enjoy.

******
2 February 2006
10
This movie offers unique philosophical background not yet supported by
science.It presents great possibilities of human mind.Anything is
possible if you put your mind to it .The real power lies in the way we
think , strenght,speed...becomes irrelevant.If you control your
opponents mind and ideas you automatically control his body movements.
Are we really leading our lives on our own , the way we wont it , or we
live by someone else's patterns and rules just because is right, moral,
usual,acceptable...The hardest thing is to face your life the way it
really is and not the way we think it is. If we learn to use our unique
potentials and develop them to maximum we are doing the right thing for
ourselves and the whole existence. How much is a man able to do depends
entirely on him and how much he knows him self.

******
31 January 2006
9
The Matrix stands among the greatest sci-fi movies to have ever
surfaced in years. Like Star Wars before it, The Matrix has awed movie
audiences with its great special effects, different view on the world
and its deeply intriguing plot. Not once does The Matrix cease to amaze
its viewer with what it has to tell, and it has quite a story to tell
us indeed.The story of The Matrix is that in the near future, Neo, a computer
hacker, is found by a group of people to discover the roots of the
Matrix. What Neo quickly learns from this group of people led by
Morpheus is that the world he lives in is not what it appears to be.
This world he feels so safe in is merely an illusion created by the
Matrix where the way we live is used to fuel the Matrix and the cyber
beings that created it. Neo is brought into the picture because
Morpheus believes Neo to be the One, a single person who's destined to
save humanity from the prison of the Matrix. The plot is deep and isn't
very easy to understand at first but this is what makes The Matrix such
an interesting watch.What makes The Matrix different from other sci-fi movies is that it
doesn't focus so much on special effects and mind-blowing special
effects. Instead, most of the running time of the movie is used to tell
the plot to the audience and let them understand how the Matrix works
as if they were Neo. Yes, Neo might be a computer hacker at first but
once he learns of the Matrix it's like all his knowledge of computers
barely even matters. With that, the viewer almost never feels like they
aren't getting anything in the movie that Neo isn't.The cast of actors/actresses in The Matrix is a pretty strong
selection. Keanu Reeves plays the role of Neo, Laurence Fishburne plays
Morpheus and Carrie-Ann Moss plays Trinity, a feisty woman who later
becomes Neo's lover. Keanu Reeves does a good job of portraying Neo as
a computer hacker and as the One. Fishburne also delivers a more than
worthy performance as the persistent Morpheus. Carrie-Ann Moss gives
the audience nothing less than the impression that she has feelings for
Neo from the beginning and she keeps that feeling along with her more
get-to-the-point attitude together very nicely. Then there's Hugo
Weaving, who plays the bad guy of the show, Agent Smith. Weaving does a
great job of giving Agent Smith a smirky but somewhat charming
personality that makes the viewer not help but love him for it.The action scenes that The Matrix does give the audience are fun to
watch and definitely worth seeing. But don't expect much action in The
Matrix, as it only makes up about thirty to forty minutes of the movie.
Hey, at least you get to see some sick CGI at the end of the movie, not
to mention the world-famous signature lean by Keanu Reeves that got The
Matrix for its nickname. Not only is the action scenes in The Matrix
awesome, but they also present some funny humor to help them be more
enjoyable. The battles in The Matrix may not be Star Wars huge, but
with such a great presentation in the movie otherwise it doesn't
matter.The Matrix ends very smoothly and by the time it does the viewer feels
much more than just satisfied with their buy or rent of the movie.
Without a doubt, if you're a sci-fi goer you just have to have this
movie in your movie collection. If you are and you don't have this
movie along with the other Matrix movies then why are you even reading
my review to start with, go out and buy it now!

******
30 January 2006
10
that is the best movie i ever seen.. its fantastic. god bless Larry and
Andy.. (i know 1 thing the ones who vote 1 for this movie are the one
who didn't understand the movie). The lead actors are very very good.
The story is fantastically creative. And the scenes are wonderful.
After that movie i just want to get some weapons and shot everywhere i
see. And about the soundtracks the song where amazing , when i heard
that the lobby scene song that made bye moby, i start to act like slow
motion and get in the mood. God save the black long dresses. After that
movie the destiny of action movies has changed. That is the best action
movie ever made.

******
29 January 2006
10
I first encountered this film at the UGC cinema rubery in 1999 on the
biggest screen they had (so big I'm surprised they didn't roll it out
on the floor!) and have to admit that whilst I don't believe in the old
saying "go see this on the biggest screen you can find" I have to admit
I'm rather glad I did.What this film asks is a question that everyone asks from time to time
IF THE WORLD DIDN'T EXIST WHAT WOULD? Would we live in a matrix style
alternate reality where we could have more control over our everyday
existence and have control over other people or would there be a big
fat nothing. The acting is superb and the storytelling enjoyable.This doesn't preach to the viewer yet sets its message out in pure and
simple terms. How many of us have wondered if we didn't have a planet
earth to exist on what would there be? Would we exist in some other
form? This film attempts to answer these questions and maybe it
attempts to pose some questions too. It is very sharply observed by the
Wachowski brothers and has many fans across the globe. The performances
(even from keanu reeves, a usually below-par actor) as excellent and it
rightly received many special effects awards and plaudits.

******
19 January 2006
7
I don't see why people like The Matrix so much. I'm not saying that
it's a bad movie or anything like that, but it is nowhere near as good
as a lot of people say it is. And personally, I don't think it even
belongs on IMDb's top 250 list, let alone so high on it.The Matrix just didn't strike me as a masterpiece of a movie. I just
thought of it as a decent motion picture with good action and an okay
plot. But the fact was, in between the action sequences, thankfully
there were many of them, the rest of the movie just got dull.But however, when the action sequences did commence, this movie reached
my demands. It has a lot of good martial arts combat fights and plenty
of gunfire. And I did like those agents that we see throughout the
movie.Overall, The Matrix is a good movie definitely worth seeing a few
times, but it is not as good as many claim it to be. Not even close.

******
9 January 2006
8
I must confess, the first time I saw this movie I didn't like it at
all. But then a year later I realized how clever and superb it was! The
reason for this was that it is very confusing. That's part of the
beauty: in the beginning of the movie, you're as confused as the main
character, but in the end everything becomes clear. The story is a
reference to the ancient-Greek philosopher Plato, who believed the real
world was actually a cave, and that the world we lived in was a dream.
In "The Matrix", they say the world we live in is just a dream, a
computer, that the machines have programmed for us. The villain in the
movie is just so deliciously creepy! He talks extremely slowly that it
sends cold chills down your spine. This role is played by Hugo Weaving.
Bravo, Weaving! Another character I rather liked was Trinity, a tough
kung-fu fighting girl who has an extremely cool introduction. She is
played by Carrie-Ann Moss. The movie has some religious themes and
classic, possible one of the best, special features ever done in film
history. If you are easily offended by sci-fi violence, I would
recommend that you skip this movie. But in other cases, I say put it on
your list and invite some friends! You might be interested in the other
two, but personally I was let down by them. They should have never been
made! Welcome to Sci-fi!

******
5 January 2006
10
**** out of **** What a fantastic movie this one is! I'm so amazed at how the Wachowski
Brothers were able to imagine such a creative science-fiction world
like this one, probably the most fictitious, unbelievable, strange,
yet, interesting futuristic world I've seen in a movie. Perhaps I
became even more fascinated with this futuristic world than the
computer-generated dream world that is the matrix. The way the story is
told is simply brilliant! I can't believe this hasn't even been
nominated for a "best screenplay" written directly for the screen
award, but never mind.For me, this might be the next Star Wars. Many will disagree with me,
complaining that Star Wars is much more classic, but the Matrix is a
huge achievement in science fiction film-making.I really enjoy these post-apocalyptic movies where some kind of
disaster has changed humankind's fate forever and now, it's up to them
to fight in order to survive in a much more life-challenging world. In
The Matrix, people now live miles and miles below the ground, near the
earth's core, because the surface is all controlled by machines.
Inventive, isn't it? The Matrix is the finest example of how good
writing can really create worlds.

******
29 December 2005
9
I tried to read all reviews before posting mine so I don't have to
repeat someone's opinion. But I couldn't find anything similar to my
thoughts. Soon I became bored with reading same stuff again and again.
So I decided to say something myself anyway.The movie is very good but it has some flaws.1. The idea of using humans as batteries is lame. What about nuclear or
thermonuclear power? Do you know that scientists work on TOKAMAK
nuclear fusion reactor? One reactor will be enough to supply all cities
with electric power on the Earth. 2. The idea that machines have to fight with humans is boring. I
understand that movie makers want to exploit it to attract people
looking for action. So they think that showing humans working with
machines in harmony will be dull. I disagree. I think that construction
is much more interesting than destruction. It gives more freedom for
imagination. 3. The idea to use human minds for creating Matrix network is not
logical. If people learn how to connect human mind to a computer then
next logical step will be to move the mind to the computer. It is
obvious that future computers will be much more powerful than human
brains. Besides it is almost impossible to destroy human mind inside a
computer network. Take a look at the Internet. It was created for
protection from being destroyed in a nuclear war. So if one joint is
destroyed then this doesn't affect whole network because everything is
duplicated. So in this case we can talk about human immortality. I
don't understand why other people can't see it clearly, maybe because
they don't know much about technologies.I think if you want to watch SFX and really understand and enjoy it you
have to have a technical background. Otherwise it will be just a set of
special visual effects for you and not the whole picture.

******
27 December 2005
9
Andy and Larry Wachowski's The Matrix is a great film that caused a new
cinematic stir like Star Wars did 22 years before this film. It was
innovative and creative to say the least - especially with its use of
"bullet time" which was a cinematic style that was never attempted
before. And the story is very interesting - it involves an apocalyptic
future where most people are "jacked in" to the Matrix, a "real" world
virtual reality representation of the late 20th century. There are
those who realize it isn't real and would stop at nothing to destroy
the Matrix from the machines that have enslaved most of the human
populace - and they would accomplish this in a belief that Neo, The
One, will bring about this revolution. A great film that should be
cherished - a superb 9 out of 10.

******
20 December 2005
7
OH MY GOD! I watched this and i was surprised because all i could think
was how bad the sequels was. I watched Revolutions and reloaded first,
then i found time to watch the first one and i was stunned. This film
has brilliant thrills and you will not keep on falling asleep during
this one because its actually good.You should see this one and not bother seeing the other two because
you'll be very disappointed. I was.And also i have to say these guys who directed the film, tell them not
to direct another 3 parter because it will ruin them again. And Keanu
Reeves don't ever do a film like Constantine again.

******
9 December 2005
10
This comment may hold some spoilers OK this movie rocked but I need to get some thing out, THe did not use
bullet time first! besides that i personally loved this movie the
fighting sequences were awesome and if you don't get it at first watch
it again and you'll get it. Now they originally planned to make 3 but
they put too much plot in this one and excluded the need for a sequel
which is why the second and third one were just plain bad.
spoiler!!!!!!My favorite seen and i'm sure i'm not alone here but it's just before
the helicopter when Neo sees the agent and yells out "Trinity.....Help"
Bang the agent fires, neo twists the agent fires again and again and
neo slowly dodges the bullets until his knees are completely bent then
he gets shot and falls then the agent aims at neo and says "Only Human"
then trinity puts her gun to his head "Dodge this" BANG the agent dies.
THis movie may not be for everyone but I don't think I'm alone when i
sayThe Matrix Kicks Ass!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Perfect 10!!!!!!!!!!

******
4 December 2005
7
I've quickly seen through some of the comments and marks gain to the
Matrix on this page, and I think it must be because of all the hype
that people seem to either worship or hate it. For me it has been a
little bit too long since I saw it, but remember that I liked it. Okay,
it's not perfect, but got good action sequences and message that may
not be extremely deep, fantastic or intelligent, but at least it got
one, and it's not a bad one.Yes, it is a rather good and entertaining movie, even though there must
be little doubt that the effects have done much to its rumour. The
effects are much of the film, but no too much. It does have some brain
too.To me it has been a really influential movie, mainly because of one of
the absolutely coolest bad guys in the history of movies. Hugo
Weaving's agent Smith is way up there among Jack Nickolson's Joker and
Darth Vader. He really became one of my top favourite actors only
because of this movie. I don't care very much about the roles of Keanu
Reeves, Laurence Fishburne or that gal-person, and I really don't why
so many people do - Hugo Weaving is the really interesting character
here. I see him way to rarely, and he was a bit of a disappointment in
LOTR.Loved to read that he's going to play in V for Vendetta (why care about
that bimbo then?), but it's a bit too bad that he's going to wear a
mask. With that face! What a waste...

******
4 December 2005
10
I think it's the best sci-fi in the universal.In the same time in the
cyberspace!Its philosophy ,characters ,production,...first the Matrix
in 1999 ,than reloaded and revolutions in 2003.Besides didn't shown
some scenes in the films ,we can find in Animatrix and the games."Enter
The Matrix" and new game "path of Neo" tell us some subjects that never
shown in th films.And The Animatrix made by the best anime creators of
the world.Total nine episode.every episode made by different
creator.especially i like "the Second Renaissance" and "Program".The
Second Renaissance can tells us the Matrix beginning ,so how we fight
with machines.

******
24 November 2005
9
It's all well and good commenting on the groovy special effects,
Fishburne's presence on screen, the music etc but how often is the bad
guy (in the case, Hugo Weaving's Agent Smith character) so evil that
you want to see Neo kick his arse. If you actually watch the extras on
the DVD release and realise how strong Weaving's Australian accent is
in real life it is even more believable.On top of that, check out Carrie-Anne Moss's catsuit - she didn't need
the padding that was required for Ms Pfeifer in Batman (and to top it
all, she was pregnant for the third film).I've only seen the film about 70 times so I am no expert but to me, it
was a revelation at the time - not least with the new filming
techniques used by many films now - including Toy Story 2 I believe and
certainly employed in Shrek 2. That in itself must garner some plaudits
for an action film to be copied by an animated one.Oh well, I'll just go and watch it again to make sure :-)

******
17 November 2005
9
When I first saw this movie, I was astonished. Ground-breaking special
effects, the coolest theme you could imagine, great characters, a
gripping story. Since then I have seen this movie several times, and
never got bored of it.What makes Matrix work so well is not the hard rock/metal/industrial
score, although this greatly helps establishing the overall mood. It is
not the expertly-done camera work. It is not the breath-taking special
effects and the perfect timing and general craftsmanship. All this
helps, of course, but what makes Matrix so brilliant is that the story
is actually creative. It raises philosophical questions, the most
important one being "what is reality?". The actors do their part to
make the story believable enough, so that one really does not want to
this film to end, ever.Of course there are also goofs of some sort. The reason for the very
existence of "The Matrix" for example is quite silly, from a physical
point of view. But somehow, this is completely unimportant when
watching the film.What remains is a brilliant, expertly done piece of cinematographic
work, a masterpiece. And then they blew it in the sequels, but that is
another story.

******
5 November 2005
9
Neo. In real life, a Thomas Anderson. One day at work, agents come into
Thomas's work office searching for him. Shortly before, he receives a
call from "Morpheus," who tells him how to get out. He doesn't listen
and gets caught. He is taken downtown, where he asks for a phone call.
The "agent" then molds Neo's lips together.Neo soon learns about the "Matrix," a computer program creating a
reality to protect humans from the truth that they are mere power for
the machines. Neo takes the red pill and joins the underground.Personally, I can't see how this got an "R" rating. It's probably the
fact it has guns in it. You see worse violence in "The Lord of the
Rings" trilogy. You hear worse language and the same innuendo in "The
Italian Job." Yet both of these movies were "PG-13." I just can't get
over the fact it's "R" rated.

******
4 November 2005
10
The Matrix is one of the most inspiring, creative, philosophically
challenging movies ever made. It deals with the ultimate questions in
life, mainly what is reality and what is the meaning of life? The
sequel's have taken criticism, but they do answer the questions viewers
have if heeded correctly - the ultimate truth is that the movie didn't
take a course beyond the decisions Neo made - In life time and the
world don't seem real unless you make choices and ultimately the choice
is good or bad, there is no middle ground. For me the effects, action
and coolness of the film sly perfectly with the great truths in this
movie, the W Brothers deserve a big pat on the back and if you haven't
seen this movie (triliogy), don't hesitate in enjoying some eye candy
and brain food. I could explain more views, but where is the fun in
telling you what to think, watch it, love it!

******
26 October 2005
10
What if neo got set up for failure just to play with his head by
sociological warfare agents fighting the matrix from within. Of course
your gonna break the vase if the people on the inside lead you to
believe your purpose lay in its path. The Matrix makes a number of
symbolic edifices through costume and screen-writing, which show the
casual humanistic character verse the straight laced corporate image of
the logical design of society, most probably government. Costume and
screen-writing are obviously more associated with the actors. However
props in this film seem to have keys of suggestion such as the vehicle
with suicide doors and the magical predicted breaking vase in the
presence of the oracle. Perhaps there is much to learn from the strum
of a harp which is music to some actors ears and promises made by a
benefactor of an actors trust. What sounds good through a promise based
on trust may not materialize due to uncommon valor and a sense of duty.
Thus Neo through his bond with Morpheus and quest for his true purpose
with his abilities meets any opponent in the matrix with a veracity.
Although the climax meets the plot the essence of Zionism through
sociological development does not become fully embraced in my opinion.
Or perhaps its the grasp around the public telephone and Neo's
characteristic voice imprint at the finally that shows the marriage of
society and humanity to the directors final intended vision of how the
subliminal plot found between screen-writing and props are used
throughout this film.

******
23 October 2005
8
The Matrix is innovative, intelligent, and provocative. It is not the
average "action packed thriller" for it is one of few movies that
involves so many philosophic implications when concerning the nature of
reality. This movie will leave viewers with a plethora of ideas,
questions, and inquiries that provide ripe circumstances for
post-cinematic discussion. This is what makes the movie so dichotomous:
it is a movie for the thinker, the intellectual, and the
philosophically bent, and also fills ones desire for two hours of
stimulation with thrill and excitement. The movies' psychological
implications can best be described in terms of Cartesian dualism, the
philosophic term that broadly encompasses Descartes idea theory of
perception. What The Matrix and Descartes have in common is the
hypothesis that human beings do not have a direct link to reality, that
our sensory organs are mere buffers to perceiving reality, therefore,
our perception of the physical world exists only within our minds. The
question then becomes, if we do not directly see reality, and reality
may not resemble what is outside of us, can an outside agent cause and
control our ideas? To understand The Matrix is to understand this
argument. Obviously, the Wachowski brothers understood this, creating a
two-hour psychological and philosophic experience not to be forgotten.

******
18 October 2005
10
This is one of the best films ever! Why? Just watch it. I won't discuss
the concept, which is simply brilliant, nor the photography, which is
astonishing. Special effects? Come on... Acting? Dialog? Script?
Editing? Directing? How could I? Even now, when I remembered the film,
I remain almost speechless. "The Matrix" is a landmark in the history
of cinema, and more. Many scenes are so fascinating that anyone's hair
would stand on its end while watching, and for many reasons, visual or
spiritual.Because this film is not just a film, but an art work that transforms
you, it gives you a deeper perspective on life and yourself. So, it is
really great art, at a level reached by surprisingly few movies. OK, it
has its Buddhist themes. So what? Isn't it all about truth, freedom and
the individual? Are these not fundamental questions for anyone? Isn't
the perspective of this movie on them tremendous and extremely
touching? And the ending... Wow... A rare, powerful and effective way
to end a great film. The fight will go on and on (compare Neo's
approach to the Stalker's in Tarkowsky's masterpiece). Because the
story is not just a sci-fi about some bleak future, it's a parable
(like any good sci-fi) about the very present day, about what is real
now, and how free are you now.P. S. The sequels are disappointing and mere lame action sci-fi
thrillers. Too bad. No more real spiritual concepts, but
over-complicated plots and inconsistent new characters. Never mind,
let's forgive the Wachowskys for wanting some extra cash, since they
have given the world this masterpiece in the first part of the trilogy!

******
5 October 2005
10
Andy and Larry Wachowski revolutionized films in 1999 when they created
the matrix...This movie had the perfect teaser with neo dodging
bullets,i remember i was 12 and went bizzark at the teaser.Now watching the movie was another experience all together with the
perfect visual effects and the action was flawless,i can loose count if
i try to count the number of kids who tried to learn martial arts due
to this great flick...keanu reeves kicks starts his Carrier with this
movie and hits the records with millions in earnings from the sequel..i gave it a 9 out of 10 cause 1 point it lost due to a complex story
which confuses viewers(not me)...........overall this movie is 1 masterpiece which i shall never stop watching
and its a must see......its the Beach mark for every action movie here
on......

******
3 October 2005
10
From the jaw-dropping fight scenes to the inspiring script, The Matrix
deserves its rightful place among the top ten movies of ALL TIME. Yes,
this truly is one of the best ever. It has all the prerequisites for a
great movie, from the amazing writing to the perfectly developed
characters, and even a little more, such as the genre-defining special
effects. Keanu Reeves' best performance ever came at the perfect time,
and, if nothing else, look at how many awards it won. I thank the
Wachowski brothers for this brilliant eye-opening exploration, and I
cannot wait for the next films in this series. I am saddened, however,
that they will not be as good as this one, because this is a peerless
masterpiece, that will never be surpassed in terms of sheer
movie-making. I honestly believe this movie is a must see, and is one
of the top ten movies EVER.

******
28 September 2005
10
I love this movie most. And the trilogy also. It brings a fantastic
idea, and follow this idea, you can explain everything, when you are a
real atheist.It also brings an intense belief (self confidence), and loving (of
everything).I can not fully express my feeling (touching) about the trilogy, for I
almost sampling it all the time. Hope you can benefit from it also. The
comment above is not enough, IMDb told me. For English is not my mother
tongue, my words perhaps read oddly to you. Often, a movie is a story,
but this movie not. It is like a prophet, a really SF forecast( you can
also call it a (SF) story, I confess it is a SF story, but not only a
SF story. It brings about a theory, let me call it so for now).

******
22 September 2005
9
Unfortunately the truth hurts; we are just cogs in someone else's
machine, as any Neo-Darwinist will tell you.You don't have to be a practicing, learn-ed Neo-Darwinists to
understand this. The Martix will just find that little chink in your
personal armour and get to you anyway.And if it doesn't get to you, you don't have a susceptible gene in your
body; and you'll probably just enjoy a well executed, deeply cool,
Sci-Fi lark.Of course, we as humans can evade our Darwinist destiny; through free
will, just as Neo does. and that's what every every cog, in every machine, watching this film, is
thinking. Me included.

******
16 September 2005
10
I still remember the first time I saw The Matrix. It was a Thursday
afternoon (the day it came out) and my family went to see a movie. I
didn't particularly want to see The Matrix but I was fine with it. And
when I came out I was absolutely blown away. The obvious feature is the
action, which was inspired by Chinese Kung Fu movies, with a bit of a
tweak. The other obvious feature is its "bullet time". It was the first
movie to use it and immediately influenced other movies. But what is
truly brilliant about this movie is the concept. It takes an old,
cheesy idea like "the chosen one," and makes it cool. And once you've
seen it a few times, over a few years, you start to understand the
philosophy and hidden meanings. From things as simple as "Neo" being an
anagram of "one" to larger concepts like imprisonment and even racism
(machines to humans).Overall, The Matrix is a revolutionary, action packed, sci-fi, fun,
philosophical, brilliant movie with a hint of comedy. It is well
sequenced, well acted, and brilliantly scripted. Whether you like
movies for deep stories and meanings, or you just like awesome action
sequences, this is the movie for you.

******
6 September 2005
9
What can we say about The Matrix except it's a preview of a new
religion !Indeed, the movie of the Washowsky brothers is nothing more than a
preview of a new religion. Perhaps not a new one but it takes all the
characteristics of a religion. The heros, Neo or Thomas Anderson, is a
character that is present in every religion (Moïse for the Jewish
religion, Jesus in the catholic one and Mahomet for the Muslims). The
one who, even if he doesn't know who he is, will reveal the Truth to
all the Humans ... Moreover, as in every religion, there is the
character of the believer. In this movie this character is present
through Morpheus. A character whose the faith is blind and will lead
him until, if it is necessary, his death. Morpheus believes so much in
Neo that he is ready to give his life if it will help Neo to destroy
the machines ... And as in every religion, the Good is fighting against
the Bad side of the universe. In The Matrix, this Bad side is
representing by the Agents and precisely by one : Agent Smith. And this
Bad side is nothing more than a version of the Good one but a version
which made the wrong choice. The choice of the Evil ...All in all, this movie is nothing more than a new preview of a
religion. All the components of a religion is so present in the movie
of the Washowsky brothers. But a question remains : is it the movie or
the book of which it is inspired (The Necromancian), which defines the
beginning of a new religion ...

******
2 September 2005
10
The Matrix not only supplies the world with a whole new level of
special effects mixed with style and substance, it also brings a whole
new meaning to the word 'paranoria'. This is one of those great epics
that becomes a milestone in our present day world, a mark for which
just about everybody can appreciate. Not since the original Starwars
trilogy has a science fiction film reached across almost the entire
population and gripped it with awesome special effects, great sound,
and a overall feel of ground breaking movie making magic. It also
serves up a good dose of paranoid delusions we all need in our lives
every now and then.With that, I leave you with the fact that I've seen more different
types of people liking this one film than most other films to date.
Move over George Lucas, you may have just met your match... :)

******
29 August 2005
10
The matrix is a great action film, which tells the story of a computer
hacker who learns that the world we live in is just a computer
simulation. The effects in the matrix are top notch the best effect in
the entire film is called bullet time a slow motion style special
effect . plus it has some of the best fight scenes ever choreographed
on film and choreographed by absolute martial arts master Yuen Wo Ping
. plus it has a good score by Don Davis. A star studded cast including
Keanu Reeaves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie Ann Moss, Hugo Weaving,Joe
Pantolanio and Gloria Foster. the matrix is a must own for fans of the
Action,Thriller,Sci-F genre YOU'LL LOVE IT.

******
25 August 2005
9
this is obviously the best out the three by keeping it more real then
the rest of the three. This movie excels in every category a great
story with many layers. even though the ideal of a real world and dream
is completely stolen from Buddhism. But applying it in a way that that
puts an unlikely hero as the one (neo) and makes every one in the
audience think and wonder. There are classic scenes ( my favorite) the
red pill blue pill. Also the beginning with trinity having audiences
stunned by the effects. The effects are some of the best in cinema. The
way the Wachowski brothers play with the effects of time were untouched
and never thought of before this movie. And just for the record this
movie did not create bullet time it was used in blade before the matrix
but the matrix defined it now any action movie has to have it now. This
movie didn't have to go 3000 years to the future to find sci-fi. Also
In my opinion it created the best enemy ever as a suited agent who is
unstoppable to the end. And at last my only problem now this is only
probably me but it created this realistic sci-fi thriller then to come
out with neo as a super powered superhero from just being a desk jockey
didn't appeal to me because he was already a supreme fighter. With the
jaw dropping martial arts and at the end where he flew makes no sense
even in a fake dream world and that over the top comicbooky style
launched the the rest of the prophecy like superman series but this
movie is the best out of all 3 for keeping a realistic possible sci-fi
world Because we could be in the matrix right now

******
5 August 2005
8
My dad loved the movie, so did everyone else in my family. It's plot
was amazing, but sometimes complicated to digest. Things I liked about
it: it's controversy; it had original action (e.g., the "bullet time"
sequence); it was another "messiah" story, meaning that the main
character was the savior for everyone else and everybody depended on
him; Neo's exciting decision (Morpheus' rescue); and the ending climax
(Neo kills Agent Smith by jumping inside him). Things I didn't like
about it: it was too "adult-themed"; it was too dark; and it's ghetto
setting. The popularity for it was fun, and watching the movie again
and again is also good enjoyment, because you get to absorb its
original action action again and again. Anyway, it passes by far.My rating: 85%

******
24 July 2005
9
This movie is one of the most complex and interesting science fiction
films to date. This movie is slick, sexy, and has so much style its
amazing. Guns, leather, blood and gore, slow motion, flips and all that
cool stuff that everyone wants in an action movie. The reason this
movie is such an achievement is because it achieves all the cool things
that people want to see in movies, but at the same time, is NOT
mindless. The story behind this action packed thrill ride is one of the
best ever told. Job well done to the directors, cast, and Special FX
team.10/10...one of the best

******
12 July 2005
10
i would have to say that this is life and this is how the matrix
controls you. Its amazing that your living in a fake world and the
machines are controlling your mind is not really your mind in t he
matrix. But i would have to say that not only this but the whole
trilogy is a 10/10 See it to believe it, and what i mean is the effects
of this movie, the visuals the stunts, the sound this movie is perfect
for surround sound. I remember when the matrix was about to be
released, it was the DVD of the millennium. And to be honest with it
will be until the next millennium comes and that is period. For all the
idiots out there who thought its stupid well think again because you
have to think and have an open mind. It exaggeration for a reason.

******
4 July 2005
9
Before the overuse of slo-mo, before the Wachowski brothers screwed
themselves over, one movie changed movies for the new century. Bullet
time had no yet been put to use. Wire work had not come into
frequential use. And Sydney remained an untapped resource of film
production. Whilst the technological aspects f the Matrix are what drew
people in, that didn't mean that plot was neglected. Indeed it was not
until the third viewing that it all fell into place. Lawrence
Fishburnes' voice is as iconic as James Earl Jones now, and Keanu
Reeves finally found a place for...woah.... to fit in properly. He's
still as wooden as timber though, but he needed to be for this role!
With some of the best action scenes mixed in with one of the most
complicated scripts, The Matrix defines itself as the beginning of a
movement of action films, that none live up to. Not even its subsequent
below par sequels.

******
27 June 2005
10
From the first part to the third, Matrix affected my own life in a way
no other movie ever had. The "will" element and its power against one's
determined destiny mixed with one other powerful factor - "love" - have
been shown to become enough material in man's possession so as to fight
against the most powerful beings at the era in which the movie takes
place. The three parts altogether raise Neo from a "simple hacker" to
"someone special". And during this, he learns how his own will can help
him to step on the way to fulfill a prophecy he first didn't even
believe to exist. The movie also warns about the cliché of "rise of
machines against human race" which is way more outstandingly depicted
within "The Matrix" (specially in the third part), compared to its
other peers. The dialog between Neo and Morpheus in the first part and
the one between Neo and The Architect at the third part are seamless.
Overally, the movie begins with the action-philosophic first part,
rolls on with the action scenes with new ideas in the second, and ends
with a fantastic plot in the last part.

******
25 June 2005
10
This is a great movie and the Wachowski Brothers do a great job on this
movie and the 2 sequels that follow so any fan of sci-fi movies will
love the matrix trilogy. this movie has a a lot of good action and at
the same time also delivers a great on the edge of your seat thriller.
for people that have never seen the Matrix movies you would want to
make sure and watch the very first one as this movie takes you and
guides you into the matrix world with great story telling and great
action to help that parts that may seem a little to slow. but give it
time as the story will give you a quick kick when the action starts. so
any fan of Sci-Fi movies will want to make The Matrix a must see movie

******
25 June 2005
9
This is a great motion picture with great uses of imagination and
special effects. The story is absolutely mind-twisting, and the
creatures look like they are made from the best. There will never be as
good a movie as this. The Matrix is basically the coating sealed across
everyone's eyes that allows them to live a normal life and see normal
things. But one man, Neo Anderson, is dragged into the real world, the
place behind the Matrix, which is a prison chamber of life and death.
The acting was simply impressive, and the effects blew me away. I
wouldn't recommend this movie for young children, or even for preteens.
Although, this is a well-made movie, and you would be really missing
something by not seeing it.

******
23 June 2005
10
The Matrix is one of very few films made after 1980 which I consider to
be worthy of the title 'classic.' This is one of the most original,
stunningly inventive, films that has ever been made, I think it should
have won Best Picture. If you haven't already, watch The Matrix
absolutely as soon as you can, it's simply fantastic. The ground
breaking special effects still blow you away almost as much as they
originally did in 1999. The music is also something to really listen
to, brilliantly fusing with the action and revelations on screen. Don't
miss this gem for a million, before the sequels appeared, the
Wachowski's appeared to be building quite a claim to greatness, almost
overnight, I think anyway. Alas, 'Reloaded' and 'Revolutions', though
interesting, and fun, (especially 'Reloaded') they don't come close to
the awe inspiring philosophical richness of the original. So if you can
only watch one, make sure it's this one.

******
15 June 2005
9
In my review of the third installment of this trilogy, I wrote:-----=====-----"For those of us that went to see THE MATRIX in the theater, what we
saw was a thinking-man's action-adventure film. The special effects
were there to propel the plot and to emphasize the film's underlying
questions on the nature of reality, the nature of humanity and the
power of the mind over the body. The film was a self-contained story --
beginning, middle and end -- and it told its tale very well, with style
grace and power.The potential in a trilogy based upon this stellar beginning was great.
Sort of like those of us that watched STAR WARS about the 10th time and
suddenly there was the words "Episode IV" at the beginning subtly
telling us that there was a lot more of this great film to come."-----=====-----I stand by that conclusion: this is a nearly perfect thinking-man's
action adventure film. Note: I say _nearly_ perfect. The film has its
flaws (not the least of which is centered in the film's very premise --
man would make an absolutely terrible source of energy.But in all, the film (when taken as a whole) is a great stand-alone
science-fiction adventure, as well as an awesome start to what should
have been the greatest sci-fi trilogy in film history... if only the
last film could have been made with the same attention and care --
rather than feeling slapped on with duct tape.In all, I highly recommend this movie -- and I highly recommend
ignoring the fact that their are two more that follow it. This one
stands alone quite well.

******
15 June 2005
9
This movie is a real winner. I often judge a movie by how often I can
watch it without getting bored; and I have yet to reach that stage with
The Matrix, five viewings later! The concept is awesome, the visuals
are outstanding, the score is perfect and the acting is, well, let's
say efficient. The two sequels lose a bit of something as they try to
explain everything away, but this first instalment of the trilogy
contains that bit of mystery and wonderment. It's one of those rare
moments in sci-fi when you think "hang on, this could actually be
true!" It's hard not to think of The Matrix without its two slightly
uglier sisters, but if you do (and I wish they had've done), then what
you get is sci-fi at its very best.

******
22 May 2005
10
Out of all the movies released in the 90's, the matrix is the best and
the most fun to watch. From the special effects to the plot to the
wonderful acting, this movie is perfect. Keanu Reeves should be
considered as one of the greatest actors of all time. The story is also
worth mentioning. It's complex, but not so much as to be called a movie
only smart people will understand. If you go and see movies just so you
can turn your brain off, don't do so with this movie. It is always fast
paced and never becomes dull or boring. It also has some awesome camera
angles that lets you look at things like reflections on sunglasses.
This movie also has some of the coolest bad guys around. This might
just have been another stupid sci-fi action movie, but the matrix has
so much style, that you have to give it a look.

******
18 May 2005
9
The Matrix is a story that makes you think. Is there a world outside
that which you are told is real? This film is beautifully shot with
stunning visual effects which did what no other film before it had
done.The Matrix is not for everyone. Those who just want to sit through a
movie and not have to think about anything might not enjoy it's bizarre
twist. Those who think that violence ruins a movie may also overlook
the incredible cinematography of The Matrix.I have been making movies for a while, and The Matrix is one of my
biggest inspirations and one of my favorite movies. The matrix will be
regarded as on of the most groundbreaking movies of the century for
years to come.

******
18 May 2005
8
Everybody warned me that I'd not understand the movie, and I'd be
confused until I'd seen it a few times, but pushing those comments
aside, I went and saw it anyway - and thought it was brilliant. It's
almost as if for the entirety of the film, you've been pulled into the
Matrix, and often you can come out from watching it, questioning the
reality around you.Keanu Reeves is the perfect hero in this, and Carrie-Anne Moss and
Laurence Fishburne are excellent in this too, and add to the mystery
and secrets of this film.All the twists and turns in the movie keep you hooked - things
definitely aren't what they seem all the time. A brilliant film for
it's genre

******
13 May 2005
10
I never saw an ad for this film. I just heard from one person that it
was a good movie and that I should go see it. I went into this film
having no clue what it was about and I didn't know what to expect. I
was completely blown away. This is one of the best movies I have ever
seen.When released in 1999 it was a revolution for the movie industry
because it gave birth to visionary special effects. This movie joined
the ranks of those before it that contain visionary special effects for
its time including; the wizard of oz (1939) the star wars trilogy that
began in (1977) the terminator (1984) and terminator 2 judgment day
(1991).Along with it's never before seen effects the matrix has a mind blowing
plot. This movie perfectly illustrates the mind control of conformity
and the importance of rebellion to create a diverse race and a sense of
reality from individualism. This movie deals with the power of mankind
and most importantly the power of the human brain. This movie makes me
feel that I can become truly powerful by harnessing the raw power
within myself by tapping into the unused power of my mind. But most
importantly this movie has taught me to believe. As if the power of
believing will set me free. (I think that it illustrates that anybody
can achieve their dreams if they truly believe. That if we set our
minds to something we really can make a difference in our lives and in
the world.)

******
12 May 2005
10
The Matrix is movie that keeps you breathless. It s not just the CGI,
but the story, the fights, the meaning.. What separates this film from
any other is that it has a story thats is not to be taken lightly.
Perheps the brothers know what they are talking about, after all you
should ask yourself : How Do You Define Real. And the answer is simple:
If you're talking about what you can feel. . .. . .what you can smell,
taste and see. . .then "real" is simply electrical signals interpreted
by your brain. We are living in the world thats is full of questions.
Some of them can be answered many can not. So when You are watching
this movie try to except it as something what could be real, if we knew
what real really is. The Matrix is an entertaining movie whit a lot of
action an CGI. Some people only like those two, but most of us see this
as so much more. Things that happened every day are hard to explain so
people explain them by saying god had something to do what that, so ask
yourself can it all be true. That we are living in a computer system
thats been made to keep us under control... Perhaps its not exactly as
it is shown in the matrix, but there is a chance because people are so
blind to see the truth that they believe anything they are made to
believe...Now the acting in the matrix is quite god for a sci-fi. Except maybe
Keanu is at his usuall-self. Fishburne was very good at his part,
together with Carrie and Hugo. But as is was said it is the story that
made this film my favorite.The CGI are a breakthrough. Even the mighty Phantom menace was not up
to the challenge. Whit Bullet-time as a trade mark it has been 1 of the
most copied movies in the last 6 years. Bullet time has been sine in
over 22 movies after the release of The Matrix.There are so many things to see in the matrix, if u only keep your eyes
open an look at it as SOMETHING THAT COULD BE REAL, IF WE KNEW WHAT
REAL REALLY IS. 10 out of 10

******
7 May 2005
8
I remember seeing "The Matrix" for the first time. I knew it was going
to be some kind of sci-fi flick, which of all the people I knew raved
about. I had my doubts; it's rare, that movies live up to their hype.The first action scene with Carrie-Ann Moss (Trinity) defines the whole
film: expect unexpected. Actually the very first action scene did
redefine action movie genre all together with slick camera movement and
freeze time shots. It all is visual eye candy, which has been designed
to make you as the viewer gasp your breath.The story goes, that hacker Neo (Keanu Reeves) is seeking for truth. He
want's to know what is the Matrix. Soon he is taken for a drive by
Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) and Trinity and he learns that the world
is not what it seems. Then there are the bad guys, lead by Agent Smith
(Hugo Weaving) and his troop of men in black. In the mix there are
thrown pits and pieces from various existential philosophy courses and
Jesus and Judas theme is strongly present. A kind of modern semi
religious/philosophical mix. Not meant to be taken too seriously, even
tough some people seem to do so.I am actually very interested of seeing, how this movie will last the
time. Will it be taken as a new "Star Wars" or will it just fade away
and become a cult classic. There is no knowing that.But, my recommendation: Lean back and kick your feet up. Munch some
popcorn and enjoy, it's easy with this film.

******
12 April 2005
10
Although this movie has a good plot(not excellent), in the sequels the
plot fails, but this movie really innovates in the visual effects, and
in that the movie(and sequels) are really excellent.Never since Star
Wars and Indiana Jones a movie had so much success all over the world
and made people want more of it. This movie became a part of history of
cinema and in peoples mind, because still nowadays this movie comes up
on any conversation that people have about cinema, and in cinema is
quite easy to notice the effects that this movie had, we just need to
compare the way of filming actions sequences,the photography and the
visual effects in the movies before 1999 and after 1999. Even in
publicity we notice that. In my opinion there are three big changes in
cinema history, they are: the black and white movies to colour movies,
the silent movies to sound movies and before Matrix and after Matrix.
Probably without the making of the Matrix, movies like Lord of the
Rings couldn't be done in this early century but only, perhaps, twenty
years from now. This movie will always be remembered in peoples mind
and not only in my mind.

******
5 April 2005
9
"The Matrix" is a hodgepodge of intriguing science fiction and
comic-book violence, and although I feel it's overrated (I've heard
1998's "Dark City" is a similar yet better movie), I still had a good
time.The special effects in this movie are, without a doubt, some of the
best I've ever seen. We get the now-famous "Bullet Time" where Neo
(Keanu Reeves) dodges oncoming bullets; we get mechanical octopi taking
on hovercrafts; we get the swirling fight choreography and slo-mo
techniques. All very impressive.The story is illogical, but it does introduce intriguing suggestions
about the difference between reality and dreams; I think we have to
take the "machines-rule-mankind" aspect on faith.The acting: Keanu Reeves is good in an uncomplicated role and he looks
right for the character, Laurence Fishburne successfully acts this
material as if it was Shakespeare, Joe Pantoliano is perfectly slimy as
a traitor, Hugo Weaving is one of the best movie villains ever as the
sinister Agent Smith, and the sexy Carrie Ann-Moss is Trinity, Neo's
(eventual) love interest.Overall, while I don't think this is one of the best movies ever made,
it's still a great movie. 9/10

******
1 April 2005
9
The Matrix is a movie. It moves and it is moving. Indeed it is a movie
of the highest order. The Matrix combines the elements of movie making
in a way that is both thoughtful and thought provoking. The movie
displays, on the part of its writers and director an acute
understanding of story, background, lighting, and especially the role
and impact of music in the film. The combination of action and music in
this movie is so precise and complimentary at times it is exhilarating.
The scene where Trinity meets Neo in the club is as close to a perfect
marriage of sight and sound as I have ever experienced while conscious.
"Morpheus is fighting Neo", the scene where Laurence Fishburne invites
Neo to show what kung-fu he has learned is scored immaculately. And the
"lady in the red dress" sequence is only beautiful in its execution of
sound and action. On the whole, the movie is a wonder to behold.
Special effects are just that, and once the separation of what is
called reality and what exists as the matrix is established, the viewer
is rewarded with passage from one to the other and perceptions of
layers of each that reveal the brilliance of the film makers. This is
not only a movie worth watching, it is one you can not afford to miss.
Even if you missed it in theaters, I can heartily recommend it on VHS
or DVD with one major condition; if you want to enjoy The Matrix, watch
it in stereo or surround. Whatever you like about this film will only
be improved by a quality reproduction of the audio content. The
sequels, while being good movies themselves were not given the same
attention and fail to keep the intensity of the first soundtrack, but
Reloaded has twice as much attitude and visuals that defy comparison.
This series will stand as some of the best film making of all time.

******
26 March 2005
10
FOR SURE! THIS MOVIE INDEFINATLY DESEARVES A 10+. My favorite movie of
all time, and probably quite a few thousand other people have this for
their favorite movie. Unfortuanly the next too sequels could not even
compare to the original, it was still an awesome movie!! The bullet
time is fantastic - and the stunts they pull is crazy. A little bit of
sci-fi, but it really makes you wonder, could this be real? So
actually, could be classified as action instead of Sci-Fi lol. If you
haven't seen this movie, go buy it. Don't bother renting it first, you
will want to own this movie. It may take a couple times (10 for me) of
watching it to really understand it, but once you do you'll watch it a
ton more (37 times total and counting for me) Anyway - Enjoy :-D

******
22 March 2005
10
Let's start with the basics. If you've seen The Matrix, you know all
about the surface story - how Artificial Intelligence created a
computer construct (The Matrix) of OUR present day world and, through a
hardwire directly into the brain, fed it to us humans who were, in
reality, kept in incubators and used for their energy output as a power
source for the Artificial Intelligence. In other words, our "reality"
exists ONLY in our minds. Everything we "experience"; everything we
"do" - it's all just a dream! But a small band of FREED humans live in
the real world and fight against the subjugation of mankind by the
machines. Their ultimate goal is to destroy The Matrix and end the
domination of the machines. How do they go about doing this? They find
a man within The Matrix (Thomas A. "Neo" Anderson) who develops the
ability to defeat the Artificial Intelligence within the Matrix and
begin the process of restoring man to his rightful place as THE
sentient species on the planet. The Matrix is a very fine high-tech,
futuristic, sci-fi action flick. But,.....look deeper,.....there is so
much more going on in this film ........ This is (without a doubt) thee
best movie out there, therefore i give this flawless dream movie a
perfect 10/10 stars. If you haven't seen this yet... what the hell are
you waiting for?! go and get it. and if you have seen it then i hope
you agree with me that this film is the best. I would recommend this
flick to Sci-Fi fans, Fantasy, Action, or just about anybody!

******
12 March 2005
9
This movie takes sound and visual effects to the next level. The
storyline forces u to listen to everything so that u don't get lost in
understandin what's going on. It's one of those movies that u have to
keep your focus on so u won't be askin about why what's going on later
on. The actin on good and on point. The script keeps u tied in wantin
to hear more and more to figure out the matrix. The storyline never
goes away from the matrix bein the main subject. The cinematography is
perfect. The whole setting is used in perfection to the subject. This
movie is a classic not because of the unique storyline but because of
the leaps it takes in vision and sound. It's one of those movies that
sets itself stages away form the other movies in its genre.

******
10 March 2005
10
This really is a sci fi action masterpiece to be truly appreciated and
watched over and over again. All though it is endlessly complex, and
still dragged down by its two poor sequels, this still is an original
and brilliant piece of kick ass action and story. Starting off with pirating criminal Neo (Reeves) he is getting bizarre
messages on his computer and having many strange encounters.
Particularly in one scene where he is tracked down at his work by some
very unfriendly looking criminals... Then we really are shown what a
fantastic film this is. After a scene (wince) where he is injected with
a bug, and then taken out as he travels naked and skinless through a
watery world, we see some incredibly done "special-effects" scenes, as
well as brilliantly original fight scene with Morpheous... This may be
very long, but it never, ever loses its touch. It pulses with fantastic
action and violent scenes throughout, whilst the complex story adds to
the package. Very, very good. Final Analysis: ***** out of ***** (5 out of 5)

******
5 March 2005
10
Matrix is the most complete movie ever. It has Japanese fight
techniques, spectacular special effects, great characters, computer's
theme... Everything is just mixed in the movie, along with the human
issue of freedom and machine control, in order to make one of the best
movies ever. It's incredible how the Wachowsy brothers could come up
with such a great idea. I was amazed about characters like Agent Smith.
I truly is one great performance by Hugo Weaving. He was the one that
designed the whole character, and it just came out with all the
qualities you would like in a character such as Smith: a leading
machine. Also there's Morpheus (with Laurence Fishburne, which is in my
opinion one of the great actors Hollywood has) or The Oracle (Gloria
Foster). Keanu's part was also good, thought I don't find him to be
that much of an actor. Anyway the fight sequences were breathtaking and
the plot could't be any better... It's one of the best movies in my
list and it over tops any of the sequels. Although the other two movies
are still great they can't be compared to the one that started it all.
The real center of the story is here. The Wachowsky brothers weren't
even considering a sequel, so the whole movie was here... A great movie
which takes my ten stars, thought I don't usually like to call
perfection to a movie, I wouldn't change a thing here, so it's a 10.

******
22 February 2005
8
I just watched the whole trilogy over a couple of days this week and I
cant get over how original this concept is. I really liked the first
one when it came out. I wasn't at that time aware that there was gonna
be two sequels and was pleasantly surprised by the two sequels. When I
first saw that scene with The Architect in the second movie I was kinda
dumb-founded. But after watching that scene multiple times I have kinda
begun to understand what the writers were trying to say. There were sum
really good scenes in all these movies be them action scenes or
philosophical dialog scenes. I would recommend this movie to anyone who
is into action in any way and of course to people who are into watching
sumthin that just might touch your mind as well.I cant say that this is my absolute favorite movie because I do have a
few others that I like more. Fight Club & Waking Life. BTW J K Comer The reason why Gloria Foster isn't in many movies anymore
is because she died during the filming of The Matrix Reloaded in Sept
2001.

******
26 January 2005
9
This is the first and the best Matrix film. Keanu Reeves stars as Neo,
a corporate suit and tie kind of guy who seems to be drawn into a
revolution against society. He seems to be drawn to a warrior woman in
a black leather biker outfit who is being hunted by what appear to be
CIA agents.Neo than meets her boss Morpheus (played brilliantly by Larry
Fishburne)and suddenly Neo starts to question whether his "reality" is
in fact real or is reality inside some sort of computer network.This movie has some of the best choreographed fights scenes I have ever
seen including the big fight with Agent Smith in the subway. An
excellent film that stands on its own (though there were two sequels,
they weren't necessary)!

******
7 January 2005
9
Did this film rock or what?!?!?! Other than 'Iron Eagle' this is
probably THE best film ever made! Better than 'Deep Rising' and
certainly better than 'Prince of Tides' which it turns out is rubbish.I really hope that what they say in the film about our reality being an
illusion is true, because that would totally rock! I can just imagine
it, all my convictions and fines disappearing because that was all
thought up by some whacked-out X box or something. Actually I really do
hope it's real because just look at my name: Neonsamurai. Got that? All
right, now read it without the 'nsamurai'. That makes ME 'Neo' or 'The
One'. Oh boy am I ever going to kick ass? You wait until the next time
I see Derek Palmers! Backflip, punch, head-butt, uppercut! I've already
got the cool name, I spend a lot of time on the Internet doing research
and when I did have a job I was always late for work. Spooky eh? Plus,
can you imagine Morpheus trying to rescue somebody else from the
Matrix, such as Dr Stephen Hawking? I can't either. Firstly he hasn't
got a cool name like me and secondly I bet he hasn't even watched 'The
Matrix' once. I've seen it EIGHT times. You read that right, EIGHT
times. Quick question: Hawking vs. me in a fight. Who'd win? Answer:
Me! Even if it was a battle of minds, I'd probably still win. Or a game
of snap.What with me being 'The One' I'd probably make Famke Janssen my
'Trinity' as I'm pretty sure that in the battery farm where I'm stored,
she's got the pod next to me. That's probably why we have such a close
affinity with one another. In fact I'm pretty sure that on the other
side of me would be a pod with Nicole Kidman in it, except her brain
plugs DON'T WORK PROPERLY AND SHE DOESN'T RETURN MY CALLS! Well guess
what Nicole, when I'm flying around beating up 'Agents' and dodging
bullets don't expect me to come to your rescue if they try and read you
mind with a couple of electric cables. You had your chance and you blew
it. So long sister, you're baaaaaad news.When I was in 'House of Fraiser' in Milton Keynes last week I decided
it was time for me to get out of the Matrix and meet up with Morpheus,
or whoever it is flying those hovercraft things around the sewers. Well
let me tell you something; if you want to leave the Matrix don't try
jumping through mirrors in a department store, particularly if the
mirrors are in the ladies changing room, and you're being chased by
security guards. When I got out of hospital that night I decided to do
a search for 'Morpheus' on the Internet, but got bored and instead did
more research on women's bodies.Morpheus, if you're reading this then hurry up and post me a phone to
my mum's house as I'm due in court next week on charges of indecent
exposure and criminal damage in a department store.

******
4 January 2005
9
What makes science fiction good? Its the story. Not knowing where its
going. Being surprised - relating it to the life we live. This is why
the Matrix is so good. This is why Matrix 2 and 3 were so
disappointing. This story could have evolved to so many places and yet
instead became a comment that has been made before and better in old
Star Trek episodes on television. The idea of life being only a
reflection of reality was lost on the old man vs. machine/good or evil
question we've seen again and again (Minority Report, Bicentenial Man,
AI, need I go on?) What made the Matrix so good was not the story about
the machines but about Neo - the chosen one - prophecy fulfilled - the
savior of mankind. Now there's a story to make you think. Can we go
back and make Matrix 2 & 3 and develop that idea?

******
30 December 2004
10
After I saw the matrix in 1999, I was instantly in love with the
complex story. it had ground breaking special effects (which are, if
you re-watch the matrix, still ground breaking at the end of 2004). the
philosophical aspects and religious aspects are very interesting to
look at. they have been implemented very carefully, you can watch the
movie without those aspects being too obvious. i'm writing this comment
in the end of 2004, meaning i've seen the 2nd and 3rd part as well. the
funny thing is, there are clues in this film for the 2nd and 3rd part
but they're not obvious. so after you've seen reloaded and revolutions
and you re-watch the first matrix, you actually see things that you
didn't notice before.I think the 2nd and 3rd part are being underrated. 'first part is the
best' I agree. however try to look at it at a whole. the whole story is
just perfect. it's a perfect story about a saviour, with a great love
story involved. it is definitely worth looking.

******
4 December 2004
10
At least I have never seen a better movie, even though i've seen
houndreds of good movies. This movie has everything:A extremely good and original plot, with a deep meaning and a lot of
philosophy and religion: "What is real? How do you define real?" or
"Have you ever had a dream Neo, that you were so sure was real? What if
you were unable to wake from that dream? How would you know the
difference the dream world and the real world?"Very good acting, I don't understand that some people say it's bad
acting. Especially Hugo Weaving and Lawrence Fishbourne is very good
actors.Awesome special effects, there is no wonder why The Matrix won an Oscar
for this. Like, when Neo is dodging the bullets Agent Brown shoot at
him on the rooftop.Cooooooool action scenes, I mean just look at the intense action in the
Lobby shootout, the dojo fight between Morpheus and Neo or the subway
fight between Neo and Smith.Interesting characters, especially Morpheus is very interesting. He's
so mysterious. And he have said some of the best quotes from any
movies: "What you know you can't explain. But you feel it. You felt it
your entire life. That there is something wrong with the world. You
don't know what it is, but it's there. Like a splinter in you mind,
driving you mad." or "You take the blue pill, the story ends, you wake
up in your bed and believes whatever you want to believe. You take the
red pill, you stay in Wonderland, and I show you how deep the rabbit
hole goes."The people that don't like this movie, is often the people that don't
understand it. I believe this movie will never be forgotten, as it is
the best action/science fiction movie ever.

******
21 November 2004
10
If you are a Sci Fi fan and haven't seen this movie yet, then welcome
back to planet Earth. Instead of reading my boring prose, go and see
this movie first and then if you want come back and read what I have to
say. I am hoping what I write is a little obscure compared with
anything else you may have read before about the Matrix Trilogy.The core concept behind the story clearly comes from a combination of
Neuromancer by William Gibson and Neal Stephenson's Snow Crash.The scene in this movie where Neo first wakes up in the real world is
pretty much completely taken from the first chapter of "To Your
Scattered Bodies Go" by Philip Jose Farmer.The wire work, you see in the Matrix and many modern Kung Fu movies was
I think first featured in the daddy of them all namely Hsia nu aka A
Touch of Zen, 1969.The Jesus and resurrection allegories are too numerous to mention even
down to the Neo minutes vs Jesus days prior to their respective
resurrections.We have billions of people living their lives in the Matrix and its
always the 20th century. So you may have asked yourself how come no one
in the Matrix notices that hey 50 years have gone by and we're still in
the 20th century. All credit to the authors if, as I believe, they hint
at the answer in the next two movies namely that the Matrix is on an
infinite loop with infinitely many Neos.No English movie versions of Neuromancer, The Foundation Trilogy, City,
Tiger Tiger, A Roadside Picnic and many more greats but instead we have
movies of Battle Field Earth (the only book I ever binned) and Johnny
Mnemonic. Maybe the kid bringing Justice in The Golden Child really did
get killed.

******
16 September 2004
9

This movie blew my mind when I saw it in the theater in 1999. I imagine
Star Wars viewers felt the same way back in 1977. Agent Smith is the
highlight of this film as a convincing computer program that exists
only to eliminate security threats to the Matrix. The breakthrough
bullet-time shots are stylish and well done. The atmosphere in the
film, both in and out of the Matrix, is eerie and moody. Keanu Reeves
is once again enjoyable, the first time since Bill and Ted's Excellent
Adventure. Lawrence Fishburne puts in a satisfying performance as
Morpheus. Overall, this is a must-see movie that will continue to
entertain for years to come.


******
13 September 2004
10

I believe this movie is perfect. Its sequels both failed at this of
course(I haven't voted on them yet but Reloaded will get a 7 and
Revolutions a 8).It had all I could wish for. Action, Love, Deep Story, Science Fiction,
Etc....I had to watch it at least 4 times before I caught everything...but
then again I still catch stuff when I watch it.So grab a big bowl of popcorn and get ready for 6 hours of Matrix.
Better wear a diaper to avoid bathroom breaks. Please keep all limbs on
the couch at all time and have an enjoyable time...watch closely by the
way.


******
10 September 2004
10

Watching this again on DVD what really impressed me was the special
effects in this film which were leaps and bounds ahead of their
competition and still some of the best to date, it deservedly won the
Oscar.Many people believed that in should have also won Best
Picture.But a science-fiction film has never won this award, which
perhaps shows that the Oscar Academy Board is still filled with people
who are a little behind the times! The film has all the physical energy
of an action film: shoot-outs, hand-to-hand fighting, and acrobatic
stunts.This is complemented by imaginative visual work that includes
the use of shadows, slow motion and quick cuts.But the film does not
rely on the special effects alone.As well as a lot of computer
generated effects, the film also has great tradition stunt action that
put the Bond films to shame! The film touches on many interesting
philosophical questions: do we exist? How do we know we exist? Is what
we perceive real? How can we know this? In one scene Neo receives a
lesson on human perception and reality from a child. It takes place
while Neo is waiting for an interview.The child is in deep
concentration, using his own mind to bend spoons.He tells Neo:"Do not
try and bend the spoon. That is impossible.Instead, only try to realize
the truth. What truth?There is no spoon. Then, you will see that it is
not the spoon that bends, it is only yourself". In another provocative
scene, Neo has a "deja vu": a black cat passes in front of him and
arches its back,then another identical cat does exactly the same thing.
Morpheus explains that deja vu is really a glitch in the Matrix. Then,
what is real? Unfortunately the two sequels failed to surpass the
greatness of this wildly original film, unlike the Rings trilogy which
went progressively from strength to strength.


******
8 September 2004
10

This is one of the best movies I have ever seen. I love it because of
the action and of the great story line. It also leaves it open for
Reloaded an Revolutions very well. It is also great because the only
reason it is R rated is because of the action (guns, fighting). There's
no drugs, sex, and not very many curse words, which means that if you
don't mind shooting, it's a great movie for you. It is one of those
movies that you just want to watch over and over again. I watched it
twice in one night because it was so exciting. Over all I have seen it
4 times, and since I rarely ever do that to any movie, you know that it
has to be a good one. Well, if you see it and don't love it, email me
and tell me why because I would like to know.


******
7 September 2004
10

The Matrix is one of the best sci-fi films ever, and will probably take
90 years until it is outdated. Starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence
Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss. The story is about an ordinary man whose
hacker alias is Neo Anderson. Soon, he is kidnapped by a strange
"Morpheus" man, and learns that the world is a virtual reality (The
Matrix), and in truth, machines are using humans as batteries. Neo
breaks out of the Matrix, and joins an alliance of rebel hackers to
defeat the machines. An unforgettable and unmissable sci-fi epic.Grade: 10/10MPAA Rating: RMy Rating: Ages 13 and up (violence, disturbing images, dark thematic
elements, profanity)


******
4 September 2004
9

What if the world around us was, in fact, a hologram? The Matrix is
based on that idea and, because of that, is one of the most original
movies I've ever seen. While the story isn't perfect, it's interesting
and fast paced enough to keep you glued to your seat. It's one of those
movies where you can't miss one minute or you'll be confused about
what's happening next.The action sequences were particularly good. After finding out the
truth, Neil (Keanu Reeves) is able to perform amazing feats once he
realized the 'rules' aren't rules at all and can be bent to a point in
the holographic world.I'm not a big fan of Keanu Reeves, but I thought he did a good job as
did Laurence Fishburn and the rest of the cast. Hugo Weaving was great
as agent Smith, who plays a computer controlled holographic projection
who hunts down renegade humans who've stumbled onto the secret.Definitely worth watching even if you generally don't enjoy action
films. I'd give it about 9 out of 10 mostly because of originality.


******
6 August 2004
10

'The Matrix' may have one of the most interesting plot ideas ever, the
idea that the world might not be real. I watch this movie over and over
again, and each time I see it I'm reminded that the movie contains no
part that is not boring; what's even better is that the movie also has
no scene, no sentence, not anything that isn't a necessary or important
part of the story, there aren't even any fight scenes/action sequences
that don't make sense. And the story, though improbable, makes sense;
the writers actually found a sensible way for people to defy gravity,
move extremely fast, learn martial arts in a matter of hours, and move
in and out of two different worlds. The writers' effective mixing of
different genres and music styles, sound, imagery, and story creates a
wholly satisfying ending.


******
20 July 2004
10

Called by many 'one of the greatest films ever made'. Do you want to
hear why? The Matrix is a mix of many genres, (It will appeal to almost
all audiences) including elements such as stylish Kung-fu fight
sequences, wire effects, very good CG effects, etc. But, behind the
slow-motion/camera techniques, suspense, and cool music, there is one
of the most interesting tales ever told. The plot is thick, and very
long after you watch the film, you are still thinking about the
ingeniously made and well-told story. The Visuals of the movie, the
camera angles, the color, all of it permanently effects your mind.
believe me, once you see this movie, you'll want to watch again and
again, I have never tired of watching this movie, and I doubt that
anyone who sees this movie will ever forget it. And I end this with a
great quote from the film, "Unfortunately, no one can be told what The
Matrix is, you have to see it for your self."


******
6 July 2004
10

This movie gets everything right. In short, it is an action movie with
a brilliant story. There is a valid excuse for supernatural action
sequences, which allows the viewer to immerse themselves in the
incredible effects without a sense that the characters are doing the
impossible.The acting was believable. Even Keanu turned in a great performance.The storyline is philosophically sophisticated. Scary how something so
far-fetched is made eerily possible. The innovative effects make the
movie move quickly, leaving you breathless. Little time is wasted in
the storytelling. Everything is dense. I can think of no movie to
compare it to--The Matrix outperforms any action movie I have seen.


******
16 June 2004
8

The first time I saw The Matrix, it was in a theater. It was good. After
that, countless times on pirate videos and on DVD. Still good. But it has
never given me that mystical spark that would make it a five star picture.
You know how you really like some movie, but it's just missing that
something, that thing you can't define? That's how it is between this movie
and me.The Matrix is no doubt the most inventive movie to hit the screens in a long
while and the dark visuals and themes common to the Wachowski brothers are
really at home here. It's almost a crime to say what I'm about to say, but I
have began to like the sequels even more. There, I have now disgraced
myself.At least in one way this original does beat the sequels, though. There is
none of that melodramatic romance between Neo and Trinity that in my opinion
was the greatest fall of Reloaded and Revolutions. Plus here the idea is
still fresh. Check diz!**** / *****

******
3 June 2004
9

The Matrix has intrigued and fascinated me, just as it has with so many
millions of other viewers. Besides the obvious aspects of the movie
(philosophy, action, and filming style) that people are interested in,
I saw that the Wachowski Bros. have paid close attention to detail and
mood in this movie. This is the mark of almost every truly great film,
of course. The fact that this movie digs deeper than the superficial,
entertaining level of most movies says a lot. I find myself absorbed
into the world of The Matrix each time I watch it, because of the
skillful artwork that the Wachowski Bros. have employed. There is so
much symbolism in this movie, I won't even go there. I love how well
this movie sets a dark, sci-fi mood. The buildings are shabby and
run-down; everything is dark and ominous. I am particularly reminded of
the image of Neo waiting under a bridge in the rain and darkness, and
of Neo, Trinity, etc. climbing the checkered spiral staircase. The
Wachowskis managed to create a movie that caters to the movie going
interests of many different viewers, while at the same time retaining
the mood and attention to detail of a true work of art. I give this
movie a 9/10 only because of the excessive profanity that dumbs it
down. Most of the profanity is unnecessary.


******
15 May 2004
10
The brilliant writing and amazing plot line are what make this movie so
great. The hero introduced with this completely new idea of our future
made it very interesting to see the development of Neo. Also, the roles
of Morpheus as the mentor, Trinity as the lover, Cypher as the villain,
and the supporting role of Tank were all done exceptionally. Oh, but
don't forget the SPECIAL EFFECTS. The way parts of this movie were
filmed have been copied by so many different directors and filmmakers
because of how great they were; it would take me a day to list them
all.Besides the bullet-time, the movie, actors, other effects, and
chemistry were all exemplary and brilliant and came together to create
one of the greatest films in history. I wish I could say the same of
the sequels...

******
9 May 2004
9

The MatrixGenre: Action/Sci-Fi/ThrillerRated R for Sci-Fi Violence and Brief LanguageStarring: Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne and Carie-Ann
MossStar Rating: **** out of 5The Matrix I thought was a little weird but very interesting! The Matrix
is
about a guy named Neo who is a computer-hacker who gets chosen by a group
of
rebellious freedom fighters led by Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) who wants
Neo to help him and the Freedom Fighters battle the machines to overthrow
them and save the Earth from technology disaster! What I thought was weird
was the part when Neo was with those agent bad guys his mouth grows shut.I thought to myself how do all these people in this movie know exactly
every next move that the enemy is pulling on the good guys?
Part favorite part was when Neo and Trinity (Carie-Ann Moss) were on the
roof battle scene and one of the bad guys is shooting Neo and it shows in
slow-motion how Neo is dodging all those bullets without even a scratch on
him! Can you believe that? I know I can.
But this was just the beginning with Neo and the Freedom
Fighters!
But that is the sequel and then the sequel after that.
I thought it was just cool on how they really made this
movie!TO BE CONTINUED......... (In the other two Matrix movies that
is)BOTTOM LINE: VERY INTERESTING!

******
4 May 2004
10

               The Matrix is a brilliant movie with probably one of the best
visual effects i have ever seen in any film besides Lord of the Rings. This
was the start of a trilogy and is the best of it too. The action was superb.
The lobby scene and the train station fight scenes were excellent. Neo and
Agent Smith had awesome fights and Hugo Weaving who played Agent Smith. He
always made me laugh of how he talked and sometimes he scared me of his
distinctively looks and the jumpy parts. This was a great film and should of
ended the whole things besides making the second and third. I'm sure you'll
enjoy this film like I did and trust me don't see the second and third if
you really liked the first.10/10!!! Pretty awesome 

******
29 April 2004
9

One word - Awesome.The Matrix is my favourite movie of all time. I enjoyed it lots because it
was different from other action movies I saw before The Matrix. Nowadays,
we
always see directors copying The Matrix, which shows that they want their
movie to be as popular and likable just like The Matrix.The special effects were great, and if you just want to watch a movie that
has a lot of gun action in it, well then, The Matrix will definitely fit
into that category.I give this movie a rating of A+ because it was great and I loved it. You
can watch this movie over and over again without getting bored since all
the
action will keep you awake and entertained for the full two
hours.

******
28 April 2004
9

If your weren't into films like this, you will be after seeing this! The
acting is superb, special effects - mind-blowing and set - captivating.
You
actually want to live the lives that they are living, well, I
do!
I was dragged into the mysterious world of 'reality' and I never want to
leave. No one interrupts me when I'm watching it or they
die!PS Keanu Reeves is gorgeous!
I try to concentrate on the film!!!Cat

******
24 April 2004
9

"The Matrix" is regarded as a science fiction cult classic.  With its
amazing breakthrough special effects, it's easy to see why!  Keanu Reeves
stars as Neo, a hacker in our world, who discovers he's a kind of hero in a
completely different world.  With this, he discovers that the world as he
used to know it is only an illusion, created by computers. (Mindblowing,
isn't it?) Surrounding the mind-boggling story are some fresh action moves
and breathtaking imagery.  Compared to the sequels that followed, "The
Matrix Reloaded" and "The Matrix Revolutions," the original is clearly the
brightest star in the trilogy.  It'll definitely bring a "Whoa!" to your
lips!

******
17 April 2004
9

Interesting question... what is reality, and are you in
it?Surely at one point in everybody's life you feel like 'Mr Anderson'. Like
you aren't such a worthless pile of biological scum, one day you might
wake
up and find its all a computer sim.Beautiful slow motion bullet casings and guns with realistic top-slide
action, drool, guns, drool.Machines' taking over the world is plotline that has been done before, but
The Matrix takes the idea to a new and well-constructed level.  The idea
that the creation of man would be his downfall is nothing new, however the
Symbiosis between the machines and man is interestingly
portrayed.If only Keanu Reeves could put a little more time into developing his
acting
ability, however it wasn't overly required for this film, as the confused
or
apathetic looks Keanu seems to wear quite often is Adequate.


******
13 April 2004
9

This is without a doubt one of the best movies I have ever seen.  The
stunning visual effects, and well thought out plot make it a very
entertaining movie.  Warner Bros has proven that they are capabable of
producing a movie worth watching.  I have also seen Reloade and
Revolutions
but did not feel that they compared to the first on in the trilogy.  I was
dissapointed, and expeected a lot more out of the next two installments.
I
doubt that there will be another movie that can come close to what this
movie brought.  There has only been one other movie that I have
anticipated
as much as this one, and that is Kill Bill which I will be watching
tonight.I highly reccomend this movie, 9/10*.

******
12 April 2004
10

****Small Spoilers****I first saw this film when it aired on TV some time ago in 2002. The plot
started fairly normal (and no, I can't be bothered writing it) but then
took
a huge (and well placed) twist. All I can say is that there are actually
two
worlds involved, The Matrix, which is the computer program that is meant
to
blind and keep humans under control from the real world, which is earth as
it is in the future, ruled by giant robot squid thingies. The first time I
saw it (the crossover to the real world) I was confused and frustrated
because I wasn't sure what the hell was going on. DON'T let this turn you
away. If you stick with it and use your imagination, you'll enjoy the best
action movie EVER made (apart from T2)
What everyone who's seen this film liked the most were the combat scenes.
Things like slow-motion Kung-Fu, Ju-Jit-Su, shooting and bullet dodging
are
all here. The classic point of this film is when Neo (Keanu Reeves) dodges
all those bullets while leaning backwards. Sound familiar? Everyone knows
that scene, like everyone knows Hugo Weaving's classic line, "Goodbye Mr.
Anderson"
Allover, this movie is a classic, and my favorite movie to date, combining
an action, adventure, thriller and sci-fi in one.
The acting is good as well, with Hugo Weaving doing a terrific and the
most
outstanding job as Agent Smith, Neo's arch enemy.
While Reloaded and Revolutions were good, The Matrix stands out as a
revolutionary and refreshing concept and the best in the
trilogy.An absolute classic, 10/10.
Definite purchase.


******
7 April 2004
10

One of the most innovating movies made in the last few
years.
For completing this movie, new effects have been created witch appear in
almost every movie made since.
The bold move to use real anime-styled immages in their storyboards and
daring to accually turn them into camera-shots was thee greatest move
ever.
Every single frame is a piece of art! Even movies made after comicbooks
(spiderman,...) used more classical(and 'safer') camera possitions...(wich
is agreat shame)
I've seen The Matrix a little over 300 times and I still can't resist
myself
from popping it in the dvd-player at least once a month!!!I LOVE IT!!!!!!!!!!!

******
24 March 2004
8

I thought that this movie was one of the best. This movie had great
effects
even when it was made in 1999. I don't think that the computer effects
were
that good but I still think that it kicks ass. I really liked this movie
and
so did other people. I liked it better because there was more of Neo with
the gunshots. The thing that they didn't show in this movie was Zin.  They
talked alot about it but they never showed anything of the city. I think
that the people who wrote The Matrix should make like a special edition of
this movie. Maybe not about the city with the characters of the movie but
Morfeus could tell Neo about the history of Zion and show that the city is
being destroyed just like in the Matrix Revolutions. But that's just my
idea.

******
11 March 2004
7

The continuing popularity of the original Matrix film hinges on the fact
that this movie is quite unlike any other science fiction feature ever
produced. The idea of a computer-simulated world in which we all live has
fascinated audiences for the past five years, many of which still maintain
that it outshines last year's sequels.This film has many pluses, firstly, it is very rewatchable. On your first
viewing you will get a good idea of what the Matrix is all about but
unless
you are particularly sharp you are unlikely to take in all the minor
details
about the concept of the Matrix, this is not a bad thing and does not ruin
your enjoyment of the film, on a second viewing though you may notice
these
details which you will understand better having seen it once already.
secondly, it is very sophisticated on the graphics side, techniques such
as
"bullet time" make it visually stunning in places. On the acting side,
Keanu
Reeves and Carrie-Anne Moss play their action sequences 'with a
difference'
well, Laurence Fishburne makes a suitable wise veteran of the team -
Morpheus, and Hugo Weaving is impressive in the role of the Agent
Smith.However it does have a few less impressive points, at the end of the film
Neo still seems to look very much the rookie in the team even after his
heroics, this is probably down to too much of the film's time being spent
on
Morpheus teaching the hapless Neo how to fight and jump across buildings,
and Neo only really discovers his power a few minutes from the end after
waking from the dead and immediately defeating Smith, which is probably a
little disappointing from the audience's point of view because it would
have
been brilliant to have seen more of Neo in action.To conclude, the idea behind this film is groundbreaking but there were a
number of missed opportunities for expanding on the content, (particularly
action sequences). However it does make you desperate to see the
sequels!7/10 

******
3 March 2004
9

This is the best science-fiction film of the 90's because first of all , the
story is so original and so nicely written it's like a dream come true when
you like these films.Who can think of a universe where people are being
tricked my machines and live in a world that doesn't exist?No one?you
thought wrong : the Wachowski brothers CAN!
Keanu Reeves is playing his best role in years.Laurence Fishburne his best
ever!So don't worry about bad acting...
The special effects are so good that it set a new standard with its
bullet-time.This film raised the bar for being a good science fiction film a
LOT.This is simply the best Sci-fi film I can think of.It's better than
Blade Runner and that was a damn good film!

******
27 February 2004
10

The movie that started it all. The Matrix came completely out of the blue.
No one had ever heard of the directors, the Wachowski brothers. Their only
other movie directorial effort was Bound, which no one ever saw. (Turns out,
Bound was simply an audition to prove to the studios that they knew how to
direct and could handle the project that was The Matrix). The actors were a
mixed bag of good actors (Laurence Fishburne, Joe Pantoliano), bad actors
(Keanu Reeves) and then unknown actors (Carrie-Ann Moss and Hugo Weaving).
The previews gave nothing away. You were simply left with the question `What
Is The Matrix?' and a few images of some very cool action. The only thing I
knew at the time was that I HAD to go see the movie the night it was
released.Before I go any further, I need to make a confession. I am the target
demographic for this movie. As such, my opinion of this movie is biased from
the word go. I love video games, I like kung fu, I like science fiction, I
like comic books, and I like technology. The one overwhelming mantra of The
Matrix is that the Wachowski brothers use everything, pop culture, religion,
video games, you name it and blend it all together to make something new.
Since they used all the things that I like already, the movie was a wicked
cocktail that hooked me from the instant I tasted it. I loved the story, the
action, the cinematography, even the acting.Fishburne and Joey Pants are great character actors and I tend to love their
work regardless of the film their in. Keanu Reeves is a different story.
Other than the Bill & Ted movies, Keanu's acting hasn't been all that good.
Johnny Mnemonic was a bomb in no small part thanks to Keanu's lack of skill
as an actor. He's stiff, doesn't convey a lot of emotion and his delivery is
stilted. His main redeeming quality is that he looks good. All his negatives
became positives in the Wachowski's hands. The character of Neo is one where
you need someone stiff and emotionless, but looks good as he's kicking butt.
Keanu more than fits the bill. This was the role he was meant to
play.The story was good, but the storytelling was the hallmark for me. For many
people the cinematography was all new to them. Some people had never seen
camera angles like they found in the Matrix, but I had in comic books and in
Japanese Animation aka anime. In comic books, the method of storytelling is
done through still images. Although that may sound somewhat stilted, it can
actually give some freedom because each frame and show you more detail, slow
things down, or speed things up. If anything it gives you a wide latitude
with perspective. Anime takes a similar approach because much of anime is
done on such a small budget. For example, one trick that anime uses is to
take a still image and have the `camera' move from left to right. This gives
the impression of movement, but it's really just a single still image. These
tricks created an entire style that anime still uses today even though the
budget may be bigger.The Wachowski's came from a comic book background, and one of the things
that they were trying to do was bring some of the storytelling style from
comic books and anime to the silver screen. Trinity's jump, bullet time, and
the fight between Neo and Agent Smith in the subway are all examples of 2d
comic book and Japanese anime style that was realized in film. Motion
pictures, comic books and animation are all simply mediums to tell a story.
The Wachowski brothers blended the styles and blurred the lines between the
mediums.The techniques that the director's used in the Matrix changed film as we
know it. Hardly any action movie today doesn't use kung fu wire work.
Charlie's Angels, The Rundown, and even Le Pacte des Loups all used the
fighting style made popular in The Matrix. Star Wars may have been a
landmark movie because it changed how science fiction was done, but The
Matrix did that and more. The ripple effect of this movie has left it's mark
on so many filmakers that it's hard to watch any action or science fiction
film and not see touches of The Matrix in them.In 1999 the Wachowski brothers released a landmark film that changed film,
and to some extent our culture, forever. It came out of the blue and blew us
all away. It would be four years before their story could continue, but it
was all worth the wait.

******
17 February 2004
7

The Matrix certainly was a ground breaking movie when it was first released.
In time the effects will seem dated, but the story will continue to
resonate.It's fair to say that Keanu Reeves probably isn't the greatest actor to
grace a movie. But his rather one dimensional style is perfectly suited for
the role of Neo. The rest of the cast are in fine form and it leads to a
very enjoyable couple of hours of escapism. I'm not really a massive fan of
sci-fi, but this is one of the better films of the genre.
8/10.

******
16 February 2004
10

Blew my mind... I am confident that I will never see a better
movie!
The concept - amazing, execution - stunning!
Watch and watch this movie... the more you watch the more it evolves.Pity about Reloaded and Revolutions:-((

******
5 February 2004
8

Ok this movie and the Lord of the Rings are my top two Sagas because they
open and close like they should end..unlike Star Wars that doesn't really
have an unfolding story other than the life of Anakin Skywalker. I this
first Matrix, Neo is trained of his ways when he discovers that he is The
One with the powers to overthrow the machines that rule over the human
race.
Has some action but mostly computer generated visuals. Worth a
look.8/10

******
31 January 2004
9

The Matrix is a movie that improves each time that I have seen it.  As the
Trilogy has unfolded, this first introduction into the series reveals the
minor nuances that were missed without the vision gained from the next two
excursions into the Matrix.If you have followed the trilogy, I highly recommend that you see this one
over again.  It will be a totally different experience from the first time
you entered THE MATRIX.  You will not be disappointed !!

******
31 January 2004
10

This film reminds me of the 1984 film "Dune".  I had to watch it a second
time to really understand this magnificent, fast paced, action packed,
intense movie.  Keanu Reeves' performance has sealed my belief that he is
probably THE BEST and MOST VERSATILE actor I have ever watched (and one of
the sexiest men in film)!!!!From a well seasoned sci-fi fan for about 25 years, I constantly look for
discrepencies in sci-fi movies.  This movie never once insults my
intelligence.  It is well written.  All of the co-stars are equally as
impressive in their roles.This movie keeps my attention from the beginning all the way to the end.
It
will put me on the edge of my seat and then make me laugh and the make me
want to yell out "KICK HIS ASS, NEO!!!!!"If you want an action packed, well written sci-fi movie with a slight hint
of a love story... WATCH THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!

******
23 January 2004
10

Die hard the original that is.  This movie is great.  Awesome action and a
in depth and clever story to boot.  The script is solid enough to cover for
Keanu's acting pitfalls and keep the audience into the plot.  It also does a
great job of keeping a very complicated story simple.  One can walk away
from this movie for up to 40 minutes, come back, and still be able to follow
what is going on.  Some may look at this as a negative, but it is essential
for a action film to be easy to follow and pick up quickly.  Its like
History class in school.  If your off in one chapter, it wont kill you, you
can pick it up right at the next chapter.  A very entertaining and exciting
film, although the sequels are a bit of a disappointment (especially in
plot) they become far to complicated and far too dependent of CGI.  But in
any case The Matrix is definitely a must see.

******
23 January 2004
10

Look at the subject and look at my profile and you can tell what I'm about
to give this movie. 10/10 babe! The characters are set up great and the
action was just so freakin cool! It was way better than the next two
because
this one had emotion. Emotion makes fighting cooler; that's why I love
revenge movies. When Neo walks into that lobby and starts kickin ass
you're
rootin for him! When Neo is fighting a bunch of Smiths in Reloaded, you're
thinking "Well this will be cool," but you're not rooting for him as much
so
it takes some of the fun away. It also had a really deep story. Any movie
with AWESOME characters, AWESOME story, and BEYOND AWESOME action deserves
to be an instant classic. The story itself is not original, but the
approach
to it is, so it feels like a completely different movie when you see
it.[B]The Matrix-[/B] 10/10

******
20 January 2004
10

Matrix will soon become a classic, I don't care about parts 2 and 3, for
me
Matrix I is a masterpiece, all people around the world at least heard
about
the movie, and that's the first step to become a classical, this movie has
to be at top 10 of the IMDB standings, please rate this
movie!!!

******
10 January 2004
9

Well when it first released in 1999 nobody had thought it was just a start
to the sensational phenomenon that followed. This movie deserves all the
credit. It was a silent killer one would say and the best of all the
sequels. It's the story of bondage, a story which asks a deep question
within yourself about the world we are in. It actually represents a
realistic probobility of what would happen if dependence on machines
increases. Well that's what every sci-fi film does you might say but the
greatness in this film is all the characters and the plot holes he uses
are
mythological and real. That blew me off.Frankly when I first saw it on the theatre with my parents i couldn't
understand much. It was only after three times viewing I had begun to love
the beauty of every frame in it. Every time one sees he learns a bit more.
The cast is perfect. Keano Reeves as Neo, Lawrence Fishburne as Morpheous,
and who could forget the macho-looking Carrie Anne Moss as Trinity. i
think
she has made a mark in her career through this film. The action sequences
are breathtaking and it gave birth to a new bunch of animations. All in
all
a thouroughly researched well directed movie which is worth your
money.I gave it 9.Giving it anyless than 9 would be shameful, I
think.

******
2 January 2004
10

I only wish I saw this movie at the cinema when it was out. To be able to
say I was there at the beginning of one of the best movie trilogies of my
time. For this movie, along with its not so great sequels will be the
defining cinematic moment of my life. It is the movie that is the basis
for
all the other movies after it and quite literally it made me care about
movies. But is it any good? Well, yes! Although it has been said that the
actors have no emotion this is neglect able in the face of one of the best
action movies of all time. A deep intriguing story along with action
sequences only really rivaled by its sequels. Copied by many, mastered by
none, this truly is one great movie. If you haven't seen this movie yet
then
you can't really call yourself a movie fan, and with this also being the
best selling DVD of all time, there is no excuse. Believe the hype, this
is
one cool movie. You will never feel the same way about movies again.


******
1 January 2004
10
This movie is fast paced and awesome.  Of course there were tons of new
special effects but unlike some movies where it seemed the writers were told
write the movie around the special effects the Matrix is different.  The
MATRIX uses the special effects magic to tell a story.  Never not once does
this this movie let you catch your breath.  There are no long ponderous
dialogues or dry spots in this movie that allow you to think about mundane
things of your life like did you feed the cat, will you mow the lawn this
afternoon or tomorrow as you watch this movie.No this movie rips you out of your seat by your throat and once it grabs you
it simply does NOT let you go and thats its charm and claim to fame.  The
movie is fast paced, action with a strong plot supporting it, the cuts be
they of action or dialogue are fast paced information cramed bits you must
almost work to collect in keeping up with the movie.  You don't just sit
down turn off your brain and let the Matrix happen to you.  The Matrix like
few other movies I have seen in recent times fully engages your senses in a
most visceral and primal manner.  I liked the Matrix it was refreshing to
see a concept so well executed in movie form.  The DVD version is nice too
lots of cool stuff and the picture quality was first rate.

******
28 December 2003
9

Possibly the most thought about storyline in the history of film. The
Matrix
is the standard that all future sci fi/action movies have to meet. After
seeing the film in the cinema, just looking at the confusion/intrigue on
people's faces concerning what and where we actually are was brilliant.Some would say that the film is merely exaggerating everyday life is not
true. Although a movie, who's to say that the story is not true. If
someone
could prove that then so be it. But I bet they cant.A truly magnificent cast, with the likes of Keanu Reeves, Laurence
Fishburne, Carrie Anne-Moss and Joe Pantoliano, not to mention the superb
Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith.And the expertise of the Wachowski brothers in directing a new era of
computer animated graphics is second to none.A[art from the Godfather, possibly one of my all time favourite films.
10/10!

******
28 December 2003
10

The Matrix has the greatest fight scenes in the history of movies. One of
the greatest movies of all time, with a plot that will you keep you
wanting
more. A twist of religion that has never been displayed in a picture film.
An instant classic, and a must own DVD. Two thumbs up a perfect
film.

******
25 December 2003
8

This of one of the many psuedo-philosophical statements that is uttered by
one of the minor character's of the film. The Matrix is a geeky film.
Everyone, especially Morpheus speak in semi-priest like ravings. His
character is based on John the baptist, isn't it? Everyone has stupid
computer geek like names, like Neo or Tank. It should be annoying and
cringe
inducing. Bringing up images of geeky computer nerd, teenage goths. You
know, those ones that spend all their time listening to Skinny Puppy and
quoting Nietzsche out of context. The ones that dress like Mortis the
Depeche Mode goblin.However despite all its faults this is an exceptional film. A film that
when it came out was thrilling and innovative. This film made the 'Phantom
Menace' look like what it is, a piece of crap. The Wachowski brothers have
shown their influences to range from Jean Baudrillard, gnostic thought to
Japanese anime such as 'Ghost in the Shell.' There is lots of stuff going
on
within the narrative and its refreshing to see an action film that has
something of a brain. See Hollywood you can still make films with
explosions
and not always go for the lowest common denominator.The problem was that it was so good that a sequel was inevitably doomed
unless more innovative stuff was put into the film. Empire magazine wrote
an
article on the state of the art special effects that were used in
'Reloaded.' However it was the actual concepts that got people excited and
the next film only offered some flimsy philosophical ideas on free will.This film has been embraced by so many crusty academics and religious
zealots who use this film to push their own ideologies. Everyone took this
film way to seriously. I mean it's like 'Fight Club,' it is a thrilling
ride
but thats about it. Christians say that you free your mind by believing in
a
spiritual reality. Media professors state the matrix is a metaphor for the
media, which controls attitudes and perceptions. Psychologists tell me
that
the matrix is a metaphor for the mind. All reality is perception,
therefore
when you change cognitions, you change your reality. Free your mind. There
are other interpretations but you do you get my drift?  The fact that it
has
got the attention of so many different kinds of intelligent people is a
good
example of why this is such a good film. It really grabs the imagination
of
the audience.The  film is competent. I'm not use to seeing competence in sci-fi films.
I
am still getting over 'The Shape of things to come.' However everyone does
well here. One of my favourite characters is actually Morpheus who is very
well played by Laurence Fishburne. He pulls off some pretty difficult
dialogue convincingly. Keanu 'Whoa! I still can't act' Reeves even manages
to be bearable. Carrie Ann Moss as Trinity is also quite good. I liked
Cypher as Judas. But the man who steals the show is Hugo Weaving as Agent
Smith. He is a bad guy that is unnervingly alike to my work and income
case
manager. I kept expecting him to look out from the screen and say 'Mr
Skeptic, have you found work yet?' His camp demeanor is funny and
effective
and this is played on more in the sequel.The imagery is also good and when Neo was being pursued by the bad guys I
was reminded of Franz Kafka's 'The Trial.' The Matrix is a world that
seems
to look alot like downtown Sydney. The s&m tendencies of the directors
seems
to spill onto this film and everyone dresses like they are off to the
'torture garden.' The infamous s&m club.  It certainly is not a way to
keep
a low profile. I think I would notice a whole bunch of people dressed in
PVC
with machine guns.Despite these nigglings this movie is one hell of a ride. Even though it
is
a hive of geekdom. Recommended. I give it 8 depressed goths out of 10
existential computer nerds.

******
22 December 2003
10

An excellent beginning to a most excellent trilogy!This movie is one of the best movies ever.  It excels in all areas - an
amazing story that is intriguing, fast-paced and beautiful to look at.
The
story draws you in and never lets go.  The effects in this movie, as
everybody knows, are groundbreaking and breathtaking.Right from the green and black treatment of the Warner Bros logo (which
is
typically gold and blue) you know you are in for a different type of
moviegoing experience.  The opening action sequence is riveting with
camera
angles, stunts, and special effects not seen before.  The dialogue
between
the agents and the police officers on the scene is as sharp as any heard
on
Law and Order, which now that I think of it is what the opening is
(scene-spoiler) a crime scene investigation and takedown about to go
wrong,
setting the stage for the rest of the movie.Gripping writing! (Scene-spoiler)
(Cut away from the beginning of the opening action sequence - a police
search of the 3rd Floor of the Heart O' the City Hotel - to the street
below
where the police have blocked off the street.  Agent (Smith) arrives on
the
scene with two other agents in a typical mid 80's unmarked law
enforcement
cruiser.  Smith exits the cruiser and approaches the officer in charge at
the scene.)Agent Smith:  Lieutenant ...Lieutenant (to himself):  Oh shit!Agent Smith: Lieutenant, you were given specific orders...Lieutenant:  Hey! I'm just doin' my job.  You give me that
juris-my-dick-tion crap, you can cram it up your ass!Agent Smith:  The orders were for your protection.Lieutenant:  Heh, heh.  I think we can handle one little girl.(Smith signals his agents and together they walk on)
The Lieutenant shouts after them:  I sent two units ... (agents keep
walking) They're bringing her down now!Agent Smith stops and turns:  No, Lieutenant.  Your men are already dead.(Cut back to the action. OR cut to Law and Order theme!  Hee
hee!)From this point on, the story, action, and effects take you "to Oz and
back"
in a cool New Millenium style way.  This is not one of those "all flash
and
no substance" flicks.  It's "all substance and all flash" all the way.
You
won't always know where you've been, or where you are being taken (at
first), but that's part of what makes this film great!  It is a
well-crafted
movie with a big story to tell.  Brilliantly conceived as a trilogy from
the
outset, the Matrix tells a complete and very compelling story while
sowing
the seeds for the larger story.  Every frame has a purpose, every phrase
has
meaning.  It's no-holds-barred and all holds broken as new technology
brings
this film to LIFE!-----
Memorable lines (If you can guess each context there might be a little
bit
of spoilage here, but nothing too serious.):Hugo Weaving's (Agent Smith's) deliberated monotonous delivery of the
name
"Misss-terr An-derson..."(sidenote:  Couldn't watch Weaving as Elrond in Lord of the Rings without
humourously picturing Agent Smith delivering HIS lines as Elrond.  e.g.
to
Boromir or Aragorn:  "Human beings are a disease, a cancer on this
planet, a
plague. And we (Elves) are the cure."
OR, as the Elves are leaving Middle-Earth:  "I hate this place, this zoo,
this prison, this reality whatever you want to call it, I can't stand it
any
longer.  It's the smell. ... I feel saturated by it.   I can taste
..(aside
to Gimli) your stink.  And everytime I do I fear that I have somehow been
infected by it - it's repulsive!  Isn't it?  I must get out of here.  I
must
GET FREE.")"Tell me, Mister Anderson, what good is a phone call if you're unable to
speak?"Neo (to Morpheus): I know Kung-Fu!
Morpheus:  Show me.Morpheus:  Come ON! Stop trying to hit me and HIT ME!Cypher:  I should've taken the BLUE pill.Tank: "Take the door on your left. (Neo goes right!?!?)  No, your OTHER
left."Trinity:  Dodge THIS.Agent Smith (on the subway tracks): "Hear that, Mr. Anderson.  That's the
sound of inevitability. .. Good-bye, Miss-ter Anderson."
Neo:  "My name .. is Neo."
-----All of this, and an ending that puts down a challenge and says "C'mon,
Let's
GO! Bring it on!"It doesn't get any better than this!

******
21 December 2003
10

This is by far the best movie I have ever seen. Or should I say that I
have
seen 11 times (no kidding). It has everything: computers, hacking,
amazing
martial arts, superb visual effects. Above all there is philosophy, a new
reality. The mixture is perfect. There is nothing left to say but "follow
the white rabbit". Superb job Wachowski's

******
18 December 2003
10

One of the best movies EVER!
Truly an ingenious idea!
I have seen many movies, but to me this will always remain the best of
'em
all.
It is a pity not everyone is able to grasp the idea and message
behind.

******
15 December 2003
8

I would say this is one, if not the best, sci-fi films of its time. The film
is completely original and the only problem with this movie is that tons of
movies are copying off it. It was the first film to have the slow motion and
dodging of the bullets and now you can see it everywhere. The whole idea of
the film made me think. The characters were all well portrayed and I was
absorbed into the story right at the beginning. This is the type of film
that gets better and better everytime you view it and is just as enjoyable
as the first time as well.
don't's vote: 8 out of 10

******
8 December 2003
10

The film is unparalleled  and has set the standard for sci-fi movies
although the wire work fights have already been exhausted the matrix is
the
closest to match the original Cantonese martial arts films. You may moan
about Keanu's acting skill being poor (which I agree with) but he suits
the
character of "the one"

******
6 December 2003
10

This film really makes you question your reality.  Are we really living
the
lives we believe we are or are our bodies being used to power machines
while
we live in a fantasy world?  The Matrix instantly became one of my
favourite
films after I saw it in 1999 but not only that it changed my way of
thinking.  I was never a religious person before because there was always
something that was didn't fit about God and His form of control but the
Matrix made sense, in a bizzare way.  It would be great to think the
world
was not real with everything that goes on around us that is so fake in
its
way.  It is so amazing to think that outside of what we see and feel
there
is something else, something that we may never see, something that we
shouldn't know about but something REAL.  Religion is all about believing
in
the unknown but I can't believe in something that I may never see or
experience.  The Matrix shows you a physical world outside the one we
know
and that has given me more to believe then the thought of a spiritual
being
in the sky. So if there really is a Morpheus out there please release me
from this Matrix - I want to see the real world.

******
29 November 2003
10

The Matrix is absolutely amazing. When I saw it for the first time about
4
years ago, I was impress by the argument, story, characters, special
effects and many more things. I believe that no others movie has such an
important influence on the movie industry like this one. The Matrix
changes
for ever the way how we see movies nowadays. I have already see all the
trilogy of the Matrix and I can confess that I'm a real fan of the
series(the first one I've already seen it about 10 times, the second
about 5
times and the last 3 times!). I really recommend this film to all of
those
who likes video games, computers, internet. because, in a way, alert us
to
the dangers of the continuous growing of our dependence of the
machines.

******
28 November 2003
10

When I saw the movie, first I did not know what to say. It was strange,
not
seen till now. But on the next day, the only thing I could say was "wow!"
This is one of the best movies in the world and those who do not
understand
it, do not have any imagination.

******
11 November 2003
9

This film was not what I was expecting the first time I saw it i was looking
for the usual gun shootots bam bam good guys win movie is over, but hell I
was way wrong. This movie was better then that it had action, but with a
great story. The plot is Neo a guy with two separate minds has to choose
between one or the other. If he chooses to stay in the matrix he will see if
he is the one or not if not then he will never know what could have happend.
the thing that makes this one better then both of the sequals is we don't
know what Neo's destiny is like in the second and third we know what is
going to happen. This one is nothing like that you don't know if Neo is
going to defeat the villain Agent Smith who is one of the top fifty villains
in my mind he is just one of those villains that gets to you. You can't
stop, but hate him in a respectful way. Overall best movie in the last ten
years in my mind.

******
11 November 2003
10

Once in a while comes a movie out of nowhere, produced by unknown director,
starring previously unrecognized actors, taking its chances -and making an
absolute classic. Matrix is such a movie - with its incredible,
reality-defying, contemporary-themed story, having enough action, original
and intellectual content to make it one of the best movies I know; An
absolute must see to anyone liking movies, sci-fi, or fantasy. 10/10

******
9 November 2003
9

I remember I saw this in the summer of '99 when the The Mummy and The
Phantom Menace were also released. Although Star Wars was commercially more
successful, I think The Matrix has left more of an influence on cinema since
then. The combination of then state of the art special effects (I think it
beat out Star Wars for the Oscar), spectacular Hong Kong martial arts,
technophobia, and philosophical discussion over the nature of reality
replete with quasi-religious overtones left an indelible mark on moviegoers.
Though his performance is quite serviceable, the film wasn't dependent on
Keanu Reeves to carry it. The rest of the cast is also efficient. On another
note, I think I read somewhere that DC Comics writer Grant Morrison came up
with the concept but according to him it was pirated by Warner Bros. which
owns DC. Whatever the case, it goes without saying that The Matrix is a
landmark film. 

******
9 November 2003
10

This movie is definitely one of the best pieces of work you'll ever see. It
is the perfect mixture of action, sci-fi, thrill and philosophy, so it is
something the motion pictures did not show earlier on. John Gaeta made the
most incredible visual effects ever, especially the "Bullet Time". The Cast
is just perfect. Keanu Reeves, Carrie-Anne Moss, Lawrence Fishburne and Hugo
Weaving express those cool and wild characters of the movie. And this
question, "What is the Matrix?", that opens us this new world, this whole
matrix motion picture revolution. It is awesome. The Wachowski brothers made
a movie full of perfection and details you cannot find by watching it once
or twice. I saw the movie several times (8 times to be exact), and every
time I see new details, especially when you saw the whole trilogy it is good
to see the first one again, then the second again, and finally the third,
because only then you will understand some links that otherwise would be
hidden. To understand the whole Matrix World it is also recommended to use
all the other helps the Wachowski Brothers give you, like the Animatrix, the
game Enter The Matrix or the comics. It is a deep hole, and you need to
follow the rabbit, if you want to be able to rate this movie. I think, that
I have understood the most things of the matrix, but there are still some
things that are hidden, especially in the last part of the trilogy, where
many questions remain open. So don't be disappointed if you don't understand
it at once.

******
9 November 2003
8

The Matrix is the religion of our day, the modern and modified Christianity,
with Neo as the digital Jesus. The Matrix is what people of the future will
worship, it simply has everything! To say that it is a good movie is simply
an understatement! Your body is a zone of ecstacy-karma when influenced by
The Matrix....! To think that all is an illusion is the ultimate test for body and mind! The Matrix is to grand for our time, a trend-setter and impossible to copy.
After the first watch I knew it was a special movie, but it wasn't after the
re-watch i knew just how grand. It opens a philosophy and way of thinking
never seen before, it has the special effects and of course some kick-ass
scenes! (HA HA) When you leave the cinema, you leave with the thrusting sound of RATM: Wake
Up, and you feel cool like never before, want to jump on to things and wish
you had a pair of sun glasses or a long leather coat nearby! But then again, all this only goes with the first movie, (even though in my
head, there only exist's ONE), the follow-ups Reloaded and Revolutions are
terrible and should have stayed as ideas in The Washowski Brothers head,
instead of making them, in hope of landing more green $! What a waste.... So when you grow older and want to show this movie to your child or
youngest cousin for the first time, keep in mind they have never heard of 2
& 3, and let it stay that way! (Maybe if we ignore them, in the future they
will be forgotten....!:-) All this said, if you have yet to see The Matrix you owe it to yourself,
The Matrix isn't a movie, it's an epos! "Follow the white rabbit"   

******
8 November 2003
9

I love this movie.. I've even watched it 5 times... it's got a gd and
mind-bending storyline, great special effects and stunning action. This is
probably one of the best movie I've ever seen. I would recommend sci-fi
movie lovers to watch this, u wont regret it.

******
6 November 2003
10

I don't think there's ever been a film that has quite matched up to The
Matrix. The special effects were revolutionary, and the plot was
suprisingly
good. Characters were well developed as well (something I'm grateful for).
In the end, it wraps up quite nicely.The Matrix changed my outlook on life, the mark of a great
film

******
3 November 2003
10

I LOVE this movie. I remember sitting in a theater many years ago (it seems
longer than 4) and watching this for the first time. There was nothing but
awe coming from the handful of people watching this with me (compared to the
350 that watched Reloaded with me). Now, over 20 viewings later, I love this
all the more. Great story, excellent action, groundbreaking effects, mind
and eye candy. Who can forget the philosophy class required to understand
some of the intricacies of this movie? Did I mention Keanu and lots of black
leather and plastic? (*I'm rolling my tongue back into my mouth now*) 10/10
did I say EXCELLENT?

******
28 October 2003
10

   The First time I saw the Matrix, I didn't know what I was getting. When
the movie was over I was completely amazed especially by the great story.
This was great from beggining to end. The Wachowski Brothers did a Brilliant
job with the writting and directing. Every actor does a really good job as
there characters especially Keanu Reeves as Neo. I have seen this movie so
many times that I never get tired of it. This is a Definiton of Sci-Fi
classic. This was clearly the best movie of 99. If you haven't seen this
movie, then your missing out on a great movie. The Fight at the end is
nothing but amazing. The sequel of this is really amazing but is never gonna
be the Classic this was. This is truly a Classic. A Must See movie for
anybody that wants to be Completely blown away. (10/10 and
A-).

******
28 October 2003
9

The Matrix changed cinema, plain and simple.  Much like Star Wars did a
generation before, the Matrix ushered in a new era of special f/x.  The oft
copied f/x continue to stun me to this day.  Even low-budget horror flicks
(eg: House of the Dead) rip off this masterpiece.  This movie has soul and most importantly imagination. Get sucked into the
Matrix - you won't be disappointed!  My score:  9/10! 

******
25 October 2003
10

"The Matrix" is about a computer hacker/software designer named Thomas "Neo"
Anderson (Keanu Reeves) who discovers the Real World is just an illusion
created by all powerful machines, they control the world and keep the Humans
trapped inside a Virtual Reality Prison called The Matrix, they harvest the
Humans as living "batteries". Neo joins Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne)
Trinity (Carrie Ann Moss) as well as the rest of the crew of the
Nebuchadnezzar in trying to defeat the machines. To do so he must learn Kung
Fu, learn to dodge bullets and manipulate the false reality of the Matrix,
in doing so he discovers he is the "One" a Christ-Figure who had been
prophesised as bringing the eventual destruction of the Matrix and freeing
the Humans from slavery. As well as being technically brilliant in all
departments, from the awesome special effects to the excellent fighting
sequences (Choreographed by legend Yuen Wo Ping) and the revolutionary
"Bullet Time" sequence were in the camera revolves around an object or
character moving at slow speed.A perfect 10/10, Even if you don't go for the philosophical nature of the
plot the kick ass action sequences are worth it alone.

******
18 October 2003
9

If you're looking for a Sci-Fi movie like nothing you've ever seen before,
look no further. In fact, just stop reading right now and go see
it.Still here? Well then, proceed at your own risk, since the power of the
movie is better the less you know about it. It features a story like none
other, mindblowing, revolutionary visual effects and superb
actors.The main character is a man named Thomas Anderson; by day a programmer for
a
software company, by night a notorious hacker known as Neo. Neo is one day
contacted by the mysterious Morpheus, who shows him the truth about our
world: the world as we know is merely a immense simulation know as the
Matrix, which was created by intelligent machines who use human beings as
an
energy source. To keep them under control, the minds of the people are
plugged into the Matrix. Morpheus is part of a group of revolutionaries
who
are trying to free mankind  and bring down the Matrix. Neo is brought to
the
real world, where the battle begins...I won't spoil anymore details. Just go and see for yourself why this is
one
of the groundbreaking movies of the '90s.

******
16 October 2003
10

For those of you Science Fiction fans who have not yet seen the matrix: For
God's sake why?  I was lucky enough to catch this in theaters opening night.
 I had no idea what to expect.  What I got was by far the best SF movie of
90's.  And the best part was, it was the best action movie
too.This movie is very loosely based on a Harlan Ellison short story titled "I
have no mouth and I must scream", considered by many to be one of the
classic SF stories.  The characters and plot are completely different, but
the basic theme is essentially the same.  Why does the world not seem real? 
What is real?  Is this all a dream?  This is certainly not the first time
movies have tackled this theme, but it is certainly the first time the theme
was handled in this way.  This movie is a very original piece of work.  It's
influence will be felt for decades.This movie has a very strong story, great characters, good acting, great
special effects, incredible fight scenes, and incredible all around
execution.  See it even you're not into SF or action.

******
15 October 2003
10

This movie should tell all the hollywood execs what a good movie should
have:  A GOOD ORIGINAL STORY!!!  Special effects cannot make a movie
successful.  Case in point: The One, a Matrix ripoff that was all effects,
dumb story and bad acting.  Alright, so maybe the Matrix story reminds me of
the Terminator, but is different in that the machines cannot simply kill
humans off, but instead must maintain them.Keaneu Reeves was perfect for the part of Neo.  Lets be honest:  the guy
hasn't acted yet.  Thus the irony of Reeves being known as Neo like
Schwarzenegger as the Terminator, but I digress...The Matrix opened up a whole new genre.  Not too many movies can claim that!
 The first time you see the movie, the first 30 minutes drive you nuts
because you are clueless where it is going.  But it gets tied up for you
like the perfect present.I simply cannot say enough good things about this original
classic...10/10

******
7 October 2003
10
Okay- Loved the Matrix and Reloaded and will probably love Revolutions
just like plenty of others. Only complaint would be thinking to hard
with some of the blabbo mind job talk. My reason for adding this is a
funny trivial antidote for some of the philosophical questions
surrounding the origins of this fairy tale. Anybody remember the old
Ray Bradbury cartoon "Little Nemo"? Was watching with my child the
other day and busted a gut when Nemo goes asleep and enters
"Slumberland" and meets up with King Morpheus! I'm thinking -- Okay back in grade school the little Wachowski brothers
read the same book and said "Hey! Sounds like a great idea for a full
blown sci-fi epic, let's add some cool dance music and jazzy special
effects and add deep meaning to Nemo (now NEO) journey into Slumberland
(now the MATRIX) and save King Morpheus (Uh, MORPHEUS). Pretty ironic
huh? Have to probe the brothers next time I run into them at the
Quickie Mart. :)I wrote this in October of 2003 highly expecting a debate over my
uncovering of this little known comic which looks to be the muse for
the Matrix series. Looks as if nobody even researched or
counter-reacted my findings so I have to ask again in 2010 - did the
Wachowski brothers watch Little Nemo and come up with the Matrix - and
if they did unfortunately they are not original! Nonetheless I still
regard Matrix series as one of my all time favorites just seeking the
white rabbit...

******
29 September 2003
7

Of course the action scenes are top notch and really get you going, but the
key to this film is the emotions we feel for the characters.  The film takes
time to develop the characters and their relationships.  For such a complex
story they take the time to tell us every detail of what is going on.  From
the time Neo and Trinity go to save Morpheus the film never lets up for a
thrilling 45 minute ending.  Not many movies can sustain an action packed
ending for a long period of time.  7/10  Good to Very Good


******
12 September 2003
9

The Matrix works on many levels.  If you are simply looking for an action
film, it is one of the best.  If you love great visuals, the Matrix has
them.  Look beyond the surface, however, and you will find the true value of
this film.  There is so much there for the intellectually curious. 
Discussions of this sci-fi classic lead to the question of the nature of
reality, when you can truly say you know something, whether ignorance is
truly bliss, potential pitfalls of technological advancement, environmental
costs of war, etc.  For those familiar with Plato's Parable of the Cave, The
Matrix may have particular relevance, as Neo's companions have difficulty in
seeing the reality rather than the shadows.  Finally, The Matrix is also a
classic Messiah tale, and references to the Biblical tales
abound.It also bears mention that the story line of The Matrix has allowed the
action sequences to take place in a world that not only allows you to
suspend disbelief but actually encourages you to do so.  Inside the matrix,
the only limits to what is possible are the limits of what your mind can
conceive.  Take the red pill and enjoy the ride.

******
12 September 2003
7

An excellently executed movie; possibly the only Keanu Reeves film I
thouroughly enjoyed. There was so much philosophy involved it makes
perfect
sense why Alice in Wonderland was so often mention.The Special effects in this movie were awe inspiring. My favorite was not
the bullet time, but the spoon bending. When the spoon bends the
reflection
it shows distorts. So much detail within this movie.My Rating: ***

******
9 September 2003
10

I have seldom seen a better movie. It´s the mixture of movie elements,
which
catches your interests. First you are fascinated by the special effects
but
in the end it´s the story you will never stop thinking
about.
I think everywhere you can meet movie-fans, who will discuss the inner
logic
of The Matrix with you. And so many people you meet so many opinions you
will get.

******
9 September 2003
10

The Plot:
Just a little below the surface, The Matrix begs the question on reality
and
meaning in life. Almost everyone on earth has been captured as a slave to
Artificial Intelligence (AI). Everyone lives and works and carries on with
life, not even knowing what they experience every day is more of a dream
world, similar to living on a planet-sized Star Trek "holodeck." While
everyone thinks they are living in the real world, reality is flipped and
everyone is really being held captive in suspended animation submerged in
slimy womb-like coffins. In a plot more sinister than the classic sci-fi
movie Soylent Green, both the AI and humans (unknowingly) feed off
harvested
human babies. There is only one city left on earth, hidden deep within the
core, which knows the truth of the Matrix and lives free from slavery. A
small band of these survivors are tasked with finding a "chosen one" who
will eventually free everyone from this slavery, and show them the truth
of
the Matrix. They find this person as one whom all his life has been
struggling with the big questions in life and has attempted to understand
the meaning of the Matrix. They offer him the pill of truth or a pill to
go
back into his non-reality of dream life in 1999. He takes the pill of
truth.
Why does this movie resonate all over the world, from people many economic
levels and walks of life, after a worldwide release of only a few weeks?How does this movie speak to postmodern relativity in values, morals, and
truth?
Myths and symbols:
(Incidentally, "neo" means new.) Neo is then trained and prepared to fight
the AI. Then, through a series of events, he gives up control and accepts
his fate. He fights the AI. The Matrix" is a movie that for the first time
in recent memory displays such astute visual brilliance within a story
that
tickles the mind with a vivd array of complex, thought-provoking twists
and
turns, all of which leaves its viewers befuddled in such fiendishly
gleeful
ways. Then we're introduced to Thomas Anderson (Keanu Reeves), a computer
software engineer who happens to be a nighttime hacker. More events too
complex to describe come to pass before he is introduced to Morpheus
(Laurence Fishburne), a man of one tone of voice who reveals to him a
secret: "The Matrix is the world that has been pulled over your eyes to
blind you from the truth." "The Matrix" is the first science fiction movie
in years to weave these intricacies amongst a vast arsenal of blistering
visual effects that transport us into a world that becomes utterly real
and
truly frightening. In a genre where movies like "Virus" and "Deep Rising"
are dominated by weak plots that serve as outlets for effects work and
routine action (not that there's anything wrong with that), this film
takes
a different path. One of the most memorable shots of the film showcases a
damaged helicoptor slamming into the side of a skyscraper in the Matrix:
the
impact causes a ripple effect before the fantastic explosion, as if the
fabric of the program is being ripped at the seams. There is one scene in
which Morpheus remarks, "Throughout human history, we have been dependent
on
machines to survive. Could it be that man's advancements in the world of
computer technology went overboard? This calls into question just how
exactly Neo came to question his reality. Had Morpheus been trying to make
contact with him in times before the film's opening? If Neo begins to
ponder
his world, are there others like him who spend their lives waiting to wake
from their dream? Could there be a bug in the Matrix program that provides
such an outlet?For me, "The Matrix" is a movie that doesn't really need a concrete
ending.
That the Wachowski Brothers have chosen to avert any solid answers or
clues
only serves to enhance the overall meaning and quality of their work, and
it
remains the most intelligent and immersive factor of the film. The Matrix
exploded onto the Sci-Fi scene. It redefined special effects, and more
importantly to its fans, it combined its action/sci-fi plot with that of a
very complex story with well-developed characters. Morpheus (Fishburn) is
an
elusive legend among hackers. One night Neo (Reeves) receives a mysterious
message on his computer, meets one of his companions - Trinity (Moss), and
receives a call from the man himself. Something didn't feel right with the
world. Morpheus believes Neo is "The One". In order to show Neo what he
believes to be true, he must show him the door. The Door out of the
Matrix.You take the red pill - you stay in Wonderland, and I show you just how
deep
the rabbit hole goes."The world as he knows it is an illusion. Neo joins up with Morpheus and
his
crew to find out about the real world, and who he really is. The Matrix is
a
computer generated world used in the future to keep humans alive and
mentally stimulated - because they are living in a perpetual state of
sleep
where machines are growing them to use as energy. Once awoken, Neo is in
for
the shock of his life as he realizes his entire life was a simulated lie.
Spoon boy: Do not try and bend the spoon. Neo: What truth?
Spoon boy: There is no spoon.
"Unfortunately no one can be told what the Matrix is. You have to see it
for
yourself."  

******
27 August 2003
10

You have all heard of the Matrix. The comic-book, apocalyptic world that
was
created by the Wachowski Brothers. There isn't much I can say that you
don't
already know. The fight scenes are incredible, the action is
out-of-control.
Even though much of it takes place in Bullet-Time, or super slow motion,
it
is hard to keep up with. The dialouge is not the films strong point when
you
watch it the first time. However every time you watch it, you hear more
deep
philisophical double-meanings, and hints about what is about to come than
in
any movie ever. For instance, the line that Neo says towards the beggining
of the film, "Have you ever had thatn feeling where you don't know whether
youre awake or still dreaming," sounds deadpan and boring at first. But
when
you realize what the Wachowskis are setting up, it becomes suspenseful and
attention-getting. The acting all around isn't spectacular, although I
think
Laurence Fishburnes performance could have very easily garnered him an
Academy Award nomination. Hugo Weaving is perfectly cast as Agent Smith,
but
other than those two, the acting isn't very memorable. However, lets get
to
the real reason people see this movie, 8, 9, hell, 20 times! The action.
This movie has the best and coolest action scenes in any movie. Ever. Mr
Willis, will you please shut up? From the lobby scene (the opening of the
lobby scene is my favorite part of the movie), to the training fight, to
the
part involving Cypher, to the helicopter scene, and of course, the best
fight ever in a movie. Neo vs Agent Smith. I won't give you any details
about the scene, but it is worth the price of admission.If you haven't seen this movie, you are missing a Science Fiction as good
and as culturally inmportant as the Star Wars trilogy. If will be quite a
feat if the Wachowskis can top themselves with the sequels. However, I
really hope they don't screw them up: (AGENT SMITH: Neo, I am your
father.)


******
26 August 2003
10

This is in reply to comments about Keanu Reeves acting
ability:
There are not many other actors who could possibly have done the role of
Neo
other than Keanu Reeves. I can only think of a few who could possibly
have
pulled it off: First and foremost is Edward Furlong. I have to wonder
whether the WB's even considered him, but in my mind he would have been a
fantastic choice. He may have been a little too short, however, if you
were
casting Carie-Anne Moss as Trinity. The other choice, and this will seem
strange until you really think about it, is perhaps Donald Sutherland
though
I believe him too old (at least old looking). Jake Gyllenhaal might have
been able to do it, but he was not known in 99---and might have been far
to
young. Does anybody else have any ideas? Afterall, if Keanu is the only
person who could do the role, it doesn't make sense to criticize his
acting:
he would still be the best Neo there could be.


******
14 August 2003
10

One of the best Kean Reeves movies that I have ever seen in my whole life.
A lot of action, amazing special effects, and eye-popping stunts.  A great
combination of cast members like Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss.
This is one movie that will keep you on the edge of your
seat!


******
12 August 2003
6

(Spoilers within) I was prepared to see a great film - The Terminator
crossed with Bladerunner and Invasion of the Bodysnatchers. What I
actually
saw was a film with mind blowing special effects and almost no plot -
humans
make good batteries sounds like tosh to me for machines capable of
creating
the Matrix. It seems to be a film based on the premise that you
physically
exist outside the Matrix but can still be killed by things inside it.
Frankly, I found it pretentious and boring.

******
30 July 2003
7

CONTAINS POSSIBLE SPOILERSThe Matrix is essentially a cross between The Truman Show and The
Terminator, and it's not as good as either.  It lacks the topicality of the
former, the excitement of the latter and the emotional impact of both. 
Frankly, I think it is one of the most over praised blockbusters of recent
years.In all fairness, it's still a very enjoyable film.  The basic plot about the
world today being a computer generated simulation created by machines who
use us as batteries is daft in the extreme, but its put forward with such
conviction that one takes it seriously.  Keanu Reeves plays his `chosen-one'
type hero role very well, and is ably supported by Lawrence Fishburne among
others.  And of course Hugo Weaving's Agent Smith makes a cracking villain. 
The Warshowski brothers both write and direct stylishly, and visually at
least, the film has been hugely influential.My problem with the film is not with the overall plot or special effects,
which are indeed tremendous (thankfully that flo-mo shot is used sparingly
so it doesn't become too gimmicky).  A number of other factors prevent the
film from being truly great.  First, the use of music.  Although the main
score works fairly well, I question using of the likes of Marilyn Manson to
punctuate the soundtrack.  A lot of this contemporary music will date the
film very quickly.  More seriously, the mid section is saggy.  Specifically,
I would have cut three scenes.  First, the scene with that annoying spoon
bending kid (who sounds disturbingly like the `Simon Fisher' character from
one of Alan Partridge's radio 4 chatshows) and the subsequent reference to
that scene.  Second, the bit where Neo is told he can be `set up' with the
woman in the red dress, as I feel it is out of keeping with the spiritual
tone of the rest of the film.  Thirdly and most crucially, I would have cut
the `ignorance is bliss' scene where Cypher arranges with Agent Smith to
betray the others.  There is no information in that scene you don't find out
later, and the plot would have been better had the betrayal come as a
surprise.However, my final problem with the film is the casual way the heroes
consider it perfectly acceptable to kill innocent people in the Matrix.  I
know the film tries to paper over this by saying until they are rescued they
have to be considered the enemy but frankly it doesn't wash.  This is
particularly disturbing in the sequence where Neo guns down umpteen security
guards.  This scene was, of course, notoriously linked to the Columbine
murders (not that I think it had anything to do with it).That said, I'm still giving the film a high rating.  The first act is
genuinely intriguing and the third act is never less than
exhilarating.


******
30 July 2003
10

"have you ever had that felling..."
This is the kind of movie that can make us doubt about our reality, it's
the
kind of movie that gives all the answers we need about everything, if the
matrix really existed we wouldn't have to worry about what causes this
our
that, the answer would always be: "the matrix".
making this movie was a shot in the dark, they risked all and made a new
generation of movies with all different special effects.
characters are really well done and the actors are just the "ones" for
the
play, I really loved Keanu Revees as Neo. The character Morpheus is one
of
my favorites because he knows what he wants and nobody can change his
mind.
the story itself it's original and well made, it mixes the reality with
imagination, and at the same time has a little bite of love and action in
the middle, besides the new and great special effects.


******
28 July 2003
10

The Matrix brought the whole world of action movies to another level.In 1999
I went to this movie in the cinema without really knowing what the film was
going to be about.After watching it I was completely astounded by the action
sequences in the movie.The special effects and fight scenes were completely
mind-blowing.I was also very amused by the agents sunglasses ! They look really
cool.The Matrix makes films like Terminator look rubbish.Keanu Reeves,Laurence Fishbourne,Carrie-Ann Moss and Hugo Weaving were all
outstanding in this movie***** out of 5 !

******
24 July 2003
9

My friends said it was way too cool, so i had too see it for myself. It
was
one of the best movies i've ever seen in my life! Keanu Reeves was
perfect,
and the fighting sequences were off the wall! Easily one of the very best
movies of the year.

******
14 July 2003
10

This is the coolest action movie of all time,I own it, and watch it
regularly.The only complaint ive ever heard about this movie, is that its
confusing.Well watch it over and over again,until you understand it.Its
worth it.

******
8 July 2003
9

People often forget that Science Fiction does not have to take place in
the
future, or to involve fantastic weaponry or special effects. All it needs
is
to work with a conceivably possible concept in a "what if" scenario (Hence
the rather excellent "Fatherland" is Science Fiction despite being set in
the past)This movie is all about concept. It asks many questions behind the
seemingly
pseudo philosophical "What is the Matrix?" questioning the nature of
reality; is reality what we perceive it to be, and if not, does our
perception not make it real? destiny, and fate (fate and destiny are not
the
same thing. Fate is what will happen, and destiny is what you will do) Of
course, the mind bending visuals did their part in selling this to the
audience.This movie has it all; strong plot, fine cast performances, and one hell
of
a visual ride. Few will go away disappointed from this, and at the very
least you'll look around you and notice things you might have missed
before.Definitely recommended viewing. The 1984 of it's generation.

******
7 July 2003
10

This movie was incredible. It was something that you will never imagine. It
was suspenseful, funny and electrifying. It is filled with action-packed
scenes and it will take you to another world. Keanu Reeves is absolutely
incredible. He acted very good and it was definitely the heart of the movie.
It is an all-time thriller that will stay in our hearts forever. I thought
it was one of the best films that was ever made. I think it was Keanu Reeves
best films that he was in.

******
3 July 2003
10

I saw the Matrix without seeing any trailers nor ideas about what the
movie
was about. This probably helped make this a top 20 movie all time for me.
The special effects are great, but special effects are only great when
they
augment a great plot (see Star Wars I & II for examples of how $ spent on
SE
and none on the script make for a lot of eye candy and a crap movie). The
acting in this movie is great even though Reeves doesn't have to do much
but
look confused (I guess it no much of a stretch). Any movie that gives
explanation to things we often think about (e.g. Deja vu etc) I love.
That
there is a hidden works going on behind the scenes makes for great
entertainment. IMHO.Too bad next movie only has the Special effects and no new
guts.

******
30 June 2003
10

The Matrix has biblical references up to ying-yang. The Movie addresses
the
fact that we can't take A.I.(Artificial Intelligence) for granted or what
happens in the movie can and probably will happen. Neo (anagram for ONE)
is
the best on screen hero ever, probably since Terminator 2: Judgment Day.
The
Bullet Time Sequences are PHENOMENAL!!!!!. The Matrix is perhaps the best,
if not one of the best movies, ever!!!!!!!

******
24 June 2003
10

Minor spoilers herein.Never before have I seen a movie so influenced with buddhism (or vedanta
for
that matter). Keanu's role in Little Buddha was almost further from
oriental
mysticism than this one. Well, almost.Here, Reeves portrays Neo, the Buddha (or Christ for that matter) of the
machine ruled world of the near future. Yet the story works on multiple
levels. It is the stuff mythology is made of. As in such ancient texts as
Ramayana of India or Jesus' Sermont on the Mount, both the exoteric as
well
as esoteric explanations are possible.My personal view of the esoteric text is such:
Neo gets the awakening when he's chosen to 'destroy' the Matrix. Matrix
is a
concept close to Maya of Buddhism and Vedanta. The illusion that what is
perceived by the senses is reality. Yet it is not so. However this has to
be
experienced in person. Morpheus, Neo's Teacher (Guru), is close, but not
quite there. He feels Neo is the One. The Oracle feels that Neo is also
close but may have to continue his quest for Reality in his next life.
Yet
the kiss (obvious symbol of Love), given to him by Trinity, produces
Neo's
Nirvana, which signifies the end of a Matrix ruled, enslaved mind. The
agents of the Matrix, which IMHO symbolize the minds inner demons - all
the
thoughts that bind the mind into seemingly endless slavery, are hereafter
helpless and must fall ultimately, conquered by the strength of the
Enlightened One.
...But can be also enjoyed simply as a great combination of Kung Fu and
Sci-Fi. :)


******
20 June 2003
7

This is one of the most interesting movies to come out in the past decade. 
It examines philosophical questions involving reality and fate, just like
"2001: A Space Odyssey" and other similar movies, yet it also provides
brutal violence and excellent special effects in the tradition of "Aliens." 
Furthermore, it has some of the best costumes in recent memory, at least in
my opinion.  The only drawback to this film is that it is so complicated you
will need to watch it again if you hope to understand any of the
sequels.

******
20 June 2003
10

The Matrix is the most amazing and deep movie that I have ever seen.  The
combination of a great story, characters, philosophy, religion, action,
and
amazing special effects.  This movie has it all, so see it already if you
are one of the poor few that haven't.

******
19 June 2003
6

A good film which takes numerous other genre's and mixes them into a cool
modern\scfi action film.If you've read the Bible and other books, have watched movies like Tron,
Aliens, StarWars etc. and are into anime (japanese animation). Then this
movie might be unimpressive and something you have seen before especially in
anime.Otherwise its a fine film which delves into the pure simple matter of
existence.Good film, boring after the 3rd or 4th viewing and something I already
experienced before in other films/media, but its great to see it done this
way.I'm split 50/50 on this movie, I don't hate it, I actually enjoy it but I
also don't think its all that original. Watch it and make up your own
mind.

******
18 June 2003
10

This was one of the best movies ever.
The actors were awesome.
It introduces a very interesting theory of life.
The fight seen are "out of this world".

******
15 June 2003
8

Before the movie came out, the What-Is-The-Matrix hype was everywhere,
permeating everything.  I went in to the film expecting some great
revelatory experience and I was very disappointed with what The Matrix
turned out to be (the idea of the world we think is real being actually a
computer simulation wasn't that original or earthshaking to me).  But in
re-watching it on dvd (after having seen the sequel as well), I now
appreciate the movie for what it is rather than for what I expected it to
be, based on the over-powering hype.  Andy and Larry W. are brilliant, no question about it, and the inspired
purity of their vision is definitely evident on the screen. The three leads
are fantastic - Keanu Reeves' particular quirkiness has never been better
utilized, Laurence Fishburne is stunning as Morpheus, and nobody could have
brought Trinity to life with any more clarity and controlled passion than
Carrie-Anne Moss.  Hugo Weaving looms large as well, as the contemptuous,
non-human Agent Smith.  The script still leaves a lot to be desired,
especially at the end, which wasn't really satisfying at all, but the film
is a splendidly creative and heartfelt  achievement nonetheless.

******
15 June 2003
10

I LOVED this movie!  It will go down as one of the best movies I have ever
seen.  I love the Action genre, and this movie delivers on all the
requirements of an action movie.  The best part is that it also has a very
indepth storyline, which only makes it an even better movie. The movie
grabs
you from the very beginning, and never lets up.  I purchased the VHS, and
DVD, and have watched them both many many times, enjoying it every time!
:)I HIGHLY recommend this movie to anyone who loves Action/Sci-fi
movies!!

******
11 June 2003
10

It's Great. Trinity & Neo do most of it but so what.The whole scene just
slow down it's cool!!!!!! If you haven't seen The Matrix your missing a
lot
of sweet things.Go now and rent it, buy it, or see it at a friend house
NOWWWWWWW!!!!!! Don't forget to look for Matt Doran {Mouse}.

******
6 June 2003
8

The more I watch this movie, the less I appreciate it.The first time I watched it I was very impressed: the FX had hidden the
rudimentary semi-intellectual plot from my eyes.But now I know better.
The matrix isn't about philosophy and stuff, it's about action and
FX!!8 out of 10

******
4 June 2003
7

Put it down to the fact that the Internet is ruled by thinking-type computer
nerds or the fact that many people are willing to accept the merits of a
movie based on its face value, but I really didn't believe that The Matrix
was quite worthy of being ranked as the #33 best movie of all time. Granted,
it was very good, but there were essentially a couple of glaring weaknesses
I perceived that made the movie, for me, a very good sci-fi futuristic romp,
and not a truly great one. Aside from that, I don't see how a movie like
this could rank above certain other explorations of perception and the
fragile nature of reality. To name a few (released either before or after
this movie), you have the likes of Vanilla Sky, eXistenZ and Dark City.
Granted, these movies all approached similar themes in a slightly different
way, and none of them were terribly similar to The Matrix in terms of their
presentation, but such films offer a much richer platter of food for
thought.I don't think I need to go into depth as to what The Matrix is about: Neo is
'The One' (a staple term in sci-fi and fantasy flicks), a person who is
seemingly capable of defeating the collective computer-induced hallucination
known as The Matrix, a program which is apparently responsible for giving
most humans an illusion of a life - one which is nothing more than a
flexible computer program.It's a relatively original concept, but unfortunately it doesn't get the
exploration it deserves here. For the most part, the meditations on the
nature of the life we take for granted as real are reduced to being a
vehicle for the special effects, when it would have been much better had it
been the other way around.Speaking of special effects, however, it's worth noting that those in The
Matrix are still to this day the best you're likely to see. Creative,
stylistic and used to great effect without being in complete excess, this is
a movie that is meant to be experienced in the cinemas. Or, since the movie
was released several years ago, via a nice home theatre/surround sound
setting.This movie comes highly recommended (sorry if it sounded like I was
completely panning it earlier). Just remember that while the movie raises
some interesting questions and offers a true feast for the eyes, there's not
really enough going on beneath the surface to satisfy the more demanding
movie-goers.Grade: B+

******
3 June 2003
10

I have seen this movie many times and it has always been enjoyable.
However,
all the subsequent times I saw this movie could not compare to the very
first time I saw it, I was just blown away. I am a movie buff and never
in
my life have I had a viewing experience like the first time I saw the
Matrix. I was on the edge of my seat and I don't think I blinked
throughout
the entire show. It was just so damn
intriguing/exciting/engaging/interesting.
I'm not exaggerating when I say it was like a drug. It was indeed a
breakthrough in film-making. Since then, I have just been waiting for a
movie to give me the same experience as the first time I saw the
Matrix...

******
19 May 2003
8

When The Matrix was released, the Wachowski Brothers and Joel Silver had no
idea that it would catch flame and become one of the most popular movies of
the generation. Fusing surreal and mind- bending action sequences with deep
biblical refrences, The Matrix isn't single- minded or requires a real mood
to watch. The acting, is solid, most noteably by Lawrence Fishburne and Hugo
Weaving but the rest of the cast utters their lines without much care. The
script tries it's best to pick off on the details of the real world versus
the Matrix and suceeds somewhat, but when the characters talk as if they are
very smart and sophisticated it doesn't really click in. The direction
provided by the Wachowski brothers is intense and sharp, trying it's best to
penetrate through the usual cliched science fiction movie and create
something more. They immensley suceed and pull everything together well.
However, the characters felt a bit shallow and under- written but the
effects seem to make up for it. The action fits in with the rest of the
story well, causing a natural balance between the two which was severed in
the newly released sequel; The Matrix Reloaded. Of course, the effects are
amazing and started a whole new wave of slow- motion effects. The computers
are very well blended into the rest of the movie, so they don't stick out as
being the ultimate focus, which they aren't. Overall, The Matrix is a good
movie, it has it's fair share of flaws but it stands out as being something
original and innovative. 8.5/10

******
19 May 2003
8

the only new thing _the matrix_ gave the movie world is 'bullet time'.
in
fact, all the major thematic ideas have been done before in much better
ways.  solipsism, brain in a vat?  descartes.  kung fu?  once upon a time
in
china.  dialog?  breakin' two: electic boogaloo.basically, the only reason to watch this movie is for how it looks.
bullet
time, carrie-ann moss in snug PVC, the fellows in long flowing coats, the
action scenes (that looks like a real helicopter!)... what, you think the
dialog sparkles?  you think the ideas are clever?  c'mon,
now._the matrix_ is worth watching; fast forward through the exposition, and
pay
attention to the special effects and costume design.

******
17 May 2003
7

The Matrix was groundbreaking in the sense that it was one of the first
films that was enjoyable at the cinema that lost a lot when watched at
home.
Spiderman and the Lord of the Rings too were good at the pictures, but
once
viewed at home seemed to rely on special effects and close ups to cover up
holes in the plot. Matrix had some mindblowing digital rendering and
imagery
but that can't make up for an interesting idea that wasn't done true
justice.

******
17 May 2003
7

Spoilers Herein.The most interesting thing about The Matrix, for me, is that the pattern
of
viewings and opinions of the movie after each viewing seems to follow a
bell
curve.  While always good, the movie seems to be at its peek at about the
3-5 times you watch it.  Before that, elements of the story may not yet
have
been realized, and after that, the novely slowly diminishes.  While this
does not occur as rapidly as with some movies, it will always occur with
every movie ever made.The only two roles in this movie that require susbtantial acting prowess
are
Morpheus and Agent Smith.  Not surprisingly, these are the only two roles
that are well acted.  Fishburn and Weaving carry the plot with their
exceptional portrayals of their respective characters.  Keanu Reeves is
adapt at playing Neo, but this is only because Neo does not have a very
deep
role in this movie and wanders around confused for most of it.  Moss is
not
overly impressive as Trinity, but does not need to be because Fishburn
carries this aspect of the movie.The true shining point of this movie, is the depth of the plot.  More
than
one viewing is most likely necessary for those who want to retain every
element of the plot.  However, it is marvelous in the first sitting as
well.
The philosophy of Morpheus, Trinity, and co.  is incorporated
fantastically
with the rich action scenes of the movie.  The script is excellent at
times,
but lacks at others.  This is not a problem though, because the plot
dictates the pace of the movie and the script and dialogue are only
supplementary at many points.Probably the most impressive aspect of the movie is the visual effects.
The
bullet time pieces are very impressive and give the viewer a never before
seen view of the battles in the movie.  They also accentuate the power of
Neo and the agents.  The constantly moving cameras also allow for unique
angles of the combat.Even though I am a believer that this film is marginally overrated, it is
still worth a viewing, probably two or three actually.Rating:  4.5 out of 5 first 3-4 times viewed
4 out of 5 all subsequent viewings

******
17 May 2003
10

The Matrix has done something to movies.  It has changed the way movies
are
made and revolutionized television and movies.  Almost every action movie
you watch will incorporate bullet speed and/or freeze frame.  But
television
shows and even television commercials have done the same.  This
constitutes
a place as one of the greatest movies of all time.
In addition, The Matrix has an intricate and interesting plot.  For most
viewers, seeing The Matrix only once will not be enough to comprehend the
entire story.  And with the release of The Matrix: Reloaded, the plot
thickens and becomes even more intricate.  Perhaps everything was not what
it seemed to be when we watched The Matrix.  With superb fight scenes,
excellent plot, and good acting, The Matrix pushes the boundaries of how
good a movie can be.

******
16 May 2003
10

A movie that has got it all.
If You are looking kicks and bangs You won't be disappointed. If You think
that special effects rank science-fiction You have to top rate this one. But
there is more to this movie than stylish gymnastic, hi-speed action,
creative hi-tech and a god plot. This is a good one.
The Matrix is not just about a future of man made paradise through
technology. This is about our reality.
This is a film about our perception of our «state of the art human
civilization» reality, about the substance of personal satisfaction in mass
consumption, about the futility of our very notion of success, about the
rewards of social inclusion against the it's taxation on our will,
resistance and submission.
Further from confronting us with the fear of loss of our self-control,
self-purpose and self-respect, this film confronts us with very real and
present questions about our consciousness of what we are and want to be; our
awareness of our role in the lubrication of this very society we live in,
and it's utility; We all know we are part of a whole, or is it a hole? Or
the whole we want?
This film takes us beyond the now traditional «machines rule the world»
theme. It's not just the «just what You think You're doing Dave?» sort of
question, it's about what baby are You feeding. 
The man versus machine argument is here magisterially treated and suggests
an even more metaphoric insight on our present world. A world that we have
already created.
So, if You still think The Matrix is just a movie... Think
again!

******
15 May 2003
10

An awe inspiring mix of philosophical debate and spectacular action
sequences (in other words that rare occasion of a Hollywood blockbuster
mixing intelligence with the usual dose of thrills and spills) The Matrix
is
a superb film on every conceivable level, doing for my generation what
Star
Wars did for my mum and dad.
The film is one that contains many surprises (not least a fantastic
lead performance from Keanu Reeves). Somewhat unconventional for a summer
blockbuster, the film goes on a more complex path to most summer
releases,
opting for a more difficult narrative in the early stages and then going
for
a story route that goes from being the stylish (the sequences in the
Matrix
itself) to the downright filthy (the scenes in the real
world).
The biggest surprise from the film that I got was that I went to see
it
based on it theatrical trailer which highlighted the action sequences,
only
to find when I got there that the film was offering up a more intelligent
and thought provoking science fiction story with the action sequences
being
saved until the last half hour, and it is this course where the film
suceeds
the most. The Wachowski's develop characters that we come to care about.
We
come to care greatly for Neo, Morpheus (for the record my favourite
character) and Trinity while developing a hatred for Agent Smith (perhaps
the most interesting villian in recent years). They sucessfully integrate
the audience into their universe and once we're settled in, they let rip
with a final act that would make even James Cameron proud.
At the time of writing The Matrix Reloaded is on the verge of
release
and now is the perfect time to re-examine a film that has very well
changed
the course of cinema, perhaps forever. The sequel, along with concluding
chapter Revolutions, will have to go a long way to beat this masterpiece
of
the Hollywood blockbustser, a genre that many thought was
dead.

******
14 May 2003
10

Arguably The Best Action Film of the '90's.Just the idea behind this film is marvelous enough to give it a full 10,
but
the way the idea is delivered goes a step further.The Action; Superb. [ranks with the Jet Li movies] - 10/10The Dialogue; Excellent. "Don't try to bend the spoon, that is
impossible...Instead, try to realise the truth...that there is no
spoon"
[10/10]The Special effects; copied by most good action films since.
[10/10]The idea; creative, imaginative, PLAUSIBLE. "free your mind"!
[10/10]"Stop trying to hit me and hit me"


******
12 May 2003
10

The Matrix was amazing, from the graphics/action to the compeling story
line. many might be confused or misunderstand the story first time round
but
as many have experienced second viewing on dvd clears any questions. The
acting was superb for an action movie especialy fishbournes and weavings.The special effect was out of this world and would take many years to
beat.
never has an action been this good since terminator 2. Well done to the
whole production team and wish the reloaded would just as
good

******
12 May 2003
10

Most people who watch the matrix are completely dazed at the end
of it. Some since they have no clue what they just saw and others
coz the just felt the matrix all around them!! The matrix although not
released with as much fan fare as its sequels caught the
audiences' eye nonetheless. It created fan following amongst
almost every age group. I've seen this movie 13 times and never
miss a chance to watch it again. The Wachowski brothers have not
only paid extreme attention to the story (which is so logically
believable) , but also to the costumes, the camera work, the music
and every other aspect of the movie. Its by far the best science
fiction movie I have ever seen. I hope the sequels are as good as
the first one.

******
12 May 2003
9

--- SPOILER WARNING! ---"The Matrix" stars Keanu Reeves as Neo, an ordinary computer freak who's
just been contacted by a mysterious being calling himself Morpheus, who
promises to explain the elusive "Matrix". At the same time, Neo is being
hunted by treacherous agents who'll stop at nothing to get their hands on
him...When Neo finally meets Morpheus, he embarks on a fantastic journey that
leads us to several startling revelations and exciting plot twists, as
well
as introduces us to several interesting and well fleshed-out characters
who
help convey the intense sci-fi story.Anyone who hasn't yet watched this movie is definitely missing out on a
pretty cool flick that features plenty of crazy special effects and that
has
a wickedly great story, a story of machines vs. man and, ultimately, man
vs.
himself...I send out a huge salute to the Wachowski brothers for bringing "The
Matrix"
to the screen. Every time I see it, I think, indeed, of how bad it
could've
turned out, (cheesy effects, crappy dialogue), but the filmmakers have
managed to create an action-packed film that surely lives up to any
expectations and has become a relatively classic sci-fi
film.Rent the film, watch the film, buy the film, love the film...I promise "The Matrix" has enough action to please even the most die-hard
testerone freaks and enough science-fiction to please the most hardcore
fans
of the genre --- so pick up "The Matrix", starring a truly talented cast
featuring Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, and Joe Pantoliano."What is 'real'? How can you define 'real'? If it is something you can
see,
touch, feel and smell, then 'real' is just a bunch of electrical impulses
understood by your brain..." - Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne)

******
12 May 2003
10

The Matrix was amazing, from the graphics/action to the compelling story
line. many were confused or misunderstanded the story first time round but
as many others experiencing second viewing on dvd, clears any questions
they
may have raised about the story line. The acting was superb for an action
movie especialy those of morpheaus and agent smiths.
The special effect was out of this world and would take many years to
beat.
Never has an action been this good since terminator 2. Well done to the
whole production team and wish the reloaded would just as
good

******
7 May 2003
10

I have to say this is one of the best movies i've seen in a long time.
I'm
hooked to this movie.  The only thing that i didn't like about it is how
they ended it.  They went too fast in the end.  I think that the matrix
trilogy would probably be better set up if they just let Neo escape from
the
matrix and then continued from there with the sequels.  I would have
liked
to see neo progress into becoming the one like Luke Skywalker did as a
Jedi.In any case, this is the Star Wars of the young generation.


******
6 May 2003
10

Every scene in this movie its a masterpiece.you can see that the writers
took their time to write every line.they were not bored or just writing it
for the sake of writing. the direction was supreme. Every actor was perfect
for his/her role, There is no actor who could have played the part of
Morpheus like Lawrence Fishburne.The movie was perfect, everything about it
the lighting , the location and the storyline. 

******
5 May 2003
10

The Matrix is nothing short of an absolute cinematic masterpiece that will
re-define modern filmmaking. It is a once in a lifetime special event that
nobody should miss.The elegant combination of mystery, suspense and action with a dark
religious and social under-tone combined with a genuine shock factor create
a visual and intelligent tour de force of celluloid not to be
missed.The story follows a computer Nerd or hacker named Neo who seeks the answer
to a question that he cannot yet comprehend. Not feeling right in the world,
as if something is wrong, Neo searches for a man named Morpheus who can
answer the question: "What is the Matrix?" What follows is a horrific and
realistic vision of our technological futuristic hell that more than
parallels our own existence.As Neo discovers the true meaning of his question and the shocking reality
of his existence we are treated to some of the most stylish and exciting
action sequences ever to make it to the silver screen. It is rare that an
all out action film can create and maintain a sense of intelligence and
social commentary without feeling completely poxy and contrived.Despite all its complexity, deep and meaningful parallels and the questions
it raises, The Matrix can still be enjoyed and completely superficial
Saturday night entertainment basis, thus making its re-watch ability
extremely high.Each and every shot, scene, musical piece, sound effect and piece of
dialogue feels perfect as if someone wasted endless hours ensuring it was
all perfect from vision to reality. There is hardly a fault in its complete
construction, pacing, editing, cinematography or any other filmmaking aspect
for that matter.The acting is more than sufficient on the whole save for two noteworthy
performances: Hugo Weaving's perfect and extremely likeable Agent Smith and
the exception Laurence Fishburne's Morpheus who is almost like a religious
prophet instilling a sense of faith in audience, helping us to suspend our
disbelief.Finally the special effects, which have been copied and spoofed in countless
films since, will simply stun. Admittedly as the film ages, so will the
effects, but at least for the time they are nothing short of
amazing.In the end the film is a rollercoaster ride of everything that is good in a
film, and certainly some of its financial success must be attributed to the
fact that this film was not hyped at all, in fact it almost left the cinemas
before the mainstream discovered it. Warners Brother even predicted that it
would fail and the first comment from critics would of indicated as such.
Now it is the single biggest grossing film that Warner Brothers has ever
made.This is filmmaking at its best, and as the film races on from climax to
climax and you get sucked into the fantastic world of The Matrix, we can all
feel something special Intelligent action can work  and Hollywood can make
a film that does not insult you either.5 stars! A must see film!


******
4 May 2003
10

Even before The Matrix was released 1999, most of the concepts and ideals
presented by the movie were already floating around in my mind. I, like
Neo,
had many questions and doubts about the world we live in. Most of the
time,
things just don't add-up and it always seemed to me that there was
something
much bigger than Mother Nature that was influencing, or perhaps
controlling,
the universe. Being a Catholic, I understand that this higher force is, of
course, God. But also being someone who is prone to outlandish theories
and
conspiracies, I enjoy pondering on the fact that what IF there were
something else out there, controlling the System, our minds and, more
importantly, our fate.When I saw The Matrix in cinemas in 1999, nothing really made sense. It
was
like getting knocked-out after one round with Tyson and remaining in shock
for what seemed like days afterwards. It wasn't until the DVD came out
later
that year that I slowly began to realise the significance and deeply
personal meaning this movie meant to me. It took perhaps a dozen
additional
viewings to fully understand what The Matrix was fully about, and still,
every time I continue to watch it, I learn something new.This movie is not your average cheesey, nerdy sci-fi flick. Despite how
ground-breaking the special and visual effects were, they are dull in
comparison to the concepts and ideals brought up. The Wachowski brothers,
who are the directors, are Catholics (I presume) and to me, this movie is
like their expression of their faith to the world. The most important line
in the movie is "Free Your Mind". Indeed, the majority of the world's
population has their mind locked-up in rusty, uninspirational cages,
perhaps
explaining why so many people always seem to settle less for than what
they
are truly entitled to. The history of the world has taken it's toll and
people don't know any better than to just jump on the bandwagon and fall
victim to the routine of civilisation. People are no longer curious, nor
driven, nor innocent enough to believe in something so much stronger than
their environment: themselves.This movie attemtps to show people that all is not what it seems. The
world
is a solid, unalterable place; the human mind is completely at odds with
it.
People don't realise the power they have. Though the world isn't
changeable,
the power their minds have can change how they view the world, thus making
it something unique in the eyes of each and every human
being.A person should search within themselves to find their strengths and use
those strengths to contribute something to humanity. Every single person
was
born with a gift, completely unique to the billions of other people on
earth. No matter what it is, it is invaluable in playing an important role
in the progression of our future.Neo's gift is the ability to free the human race. The movie is about
self-belief. My belief is that there is a little Neo in all of
us.

******
2 May 2003
10

As much as I will be part of the rabid throngs of people lining up to
catch
a spectacle as huge as Reloaded and Revolution...allow me to counter a
common misconception.The Matrix just happened.With an uncanny midas touch, The Warchowski bros launched this then
unknown
film at the the right place, in the right time. With an execution
commercial
enough to bring in the box office moola and a philosophical subtext
accessible enough for the general public to latch on to, the rest, as they
say...is history.The philosophical under pinnings though, (of blue pills, red pills, the
subreality of consciousness and all that mambo jambo etc), so successfully
popularised by The Matrix, was infact neither orginated by said film nor
as
fully realised than in other more accomplished works.IMHO, the best execution on the concept of reality and perception was
already explored in much more unbelievably visual opus, one year earlier,
the grossly overlooked and criminally under-rated
"Dark City" (One of My Top 10 All time Favourite Films)Dark City was impactful both cinematically and ideologically. Most
importantly, it rewarded my wildly abandoned reach for human imagination
and
thirst for ideas, by fulfilling as much promise a motion picture can ever
hope to give.On top of that, my background as a "trekkie" scifi nerd meant I
instinctively respond to films which challenge me both intellectually and
spiritually. Dark City was thus a near religious, life cleansing
experience
for me.And any which way I look at it, this film soars to heights unseen since
2001: A Space Odyssey...But due to its messed up marketing(positioning the film more like a horror
film for the teenage crowd), the film did not find its intended audience
and
flopped unceremoniously. Of course it found its audience but by then its
was
too late...That said, the thrist for something better than our run of the mill pop
corn
fare is still there, waiting to be quenched.And The Matrix filled that void.Of course, much to The Matrix's advantage, it was flavoured with a
commercial zest which captured the hearts and minds of the masses(myself
included) like few films can. Such divine formula for commercial success
is
way too hard to calculate. Thus credit all round for the clairvoyant
Warchowski Bros.But now that the Matrix mythology and its paraphernalia franchising
juggernaut has reached Star Wars proportion, the brothers face an uphill
task, to fulfil the massive, pent-up promise that the Matrix may be on to
something.....anything.Contrary to my allegiance to the much maligned "Dark City", I for one hope
will like to see them succeed. If not for my pathetic pretence of
objectivity(not!!), at least for the betterment of Hollywood cinema as a
whole.Such seminal works like Contact, Minority Report and of course, LOTR has
managed to sneak out of Hollywood's assembly plant. May "The Matrix
Trilogy"
too be part of this cinematic revolution.As such, to the millions of Matrix fans out there, do not bite me. My
comments are reserved for the sole Matrix movie in 1999 alone. That is
coupled with my sky high expectation that its capable of so much more. My
eventual take on the worthiness of the entire trilogy, of course, will be
decided after completing both Reloaded, and Revolution. I thus hope for
the
best.

******
21 April 2003
7

Whether it's the 'Bullet-Time' technique or gravity-defying multi-style
martial arts and 'gun fu', almost everyone has seen something either
invented or widely popularized by The Matrix, even if they've never heard
of
the film itself.While not the most enlightening experience, it is highly entertaining, as
long as you don't think too much about the plot.  The film is well cast
and
boasts several excellent performances (Joe Pantoliano and Hugo Weaving
namely) as well as some mediocre ones.  I could say that Keanu Reeves was
not the best choice for Neo, but he fits well enough.  A cardboard
cut-out
of an actor for a cardboard cut-out of a character.  But it isn't like
anyone should go into this movie expecting a great revelation about their
lives.It's a fun, stylish, if simple, sci-fi action movie, and one that isn't
likely to disappoint.  

******
19 April 2003
9

this movie was awsome! thats all i can say. if you've seen it great if you
haven't shame on you!the new one is coming out and its lookin real good so
you should see the first one so you're not lost. you have to see this
movie
you will be in awe this movie is awsome.SEE IT

******
18 April 2003
9

Lets's understand some things about the Matrix, it has ground breaking
special affects, it has a buddist sense of itself and a great story. This
makes it the best scifi movie movie of all time. It belongs in the same
breath with Star Wars.Now to those people that dont like Matrix. What do you hate about a movie
that has a great story, an understated Keanu Reeves and great special
affects? to those people that hate the Matrix, keeping watching movies like
Legally Blond and leave the great scifi movie to us.

******
14 April 2003
9

I saw THE MATRIX again recently.  It was a much different experience when
I
saw it for the first time.  The first time I saw it was on its opening
weekend.  It just looked like a somewhat cool movie and I was bored that
day.   It wasn't famous or anything yet.  I walked out of the theater
knowing I saw something special, but I didn't realize how special it was
(largely because I didn't realize how intricate the special effects are).Last week was at least the 5th time I saw it.  I was aware of the cult
status it had and how many movies copied it and how many of its lines and
ideas are memorized by science fiction fans.  I also had a better idea of
what went into making it (I don't think I'll ever understand the true
complexity of it).I had more admiration this time for the technical stuff, but I felt
basically the same about the story.  It is excellent and has a lot of good
philosophy, but it doesn't really have an ending.  In place of an ending,
it
has a long violent action sequence and then the fight between Agent Smith
and Neo.   They are among the best action sequences and fights ever
filmed,
but compared to the richness of the story in the beginning, I always felt
it
could have been more.What I'm trying to say is that I have no doubt that MATRIX RELOADED and
MATRIX REVOLUTIONS are for sure going to be at least as good as the ending
of THE MATRIX.  I just hope it also has some of the stuff that made the
beginning and middle of THE MATRIX great too.

******
12 April 2003
9

It's not the acting that makes this movie good (obviously) but the
concept
itself.  Definitely an original.  The movie puts you in your head and
really
makes you think.In addition, the effects are awesome and have set a standard.  Great
movie
when you're in the mood for more action, less reality, which we all need
at
one point or another.LOVED IT!

******
10 April 2003
10

A revolution in filmart was born the day the Matrix hits the screens!!Our
eyes still don`t give the right signals to the brains of the things we
have
seen!The truth is: There is no spoon!But there is a sum of all cyberfears
inside of us all after this amazing film!

******
7 April 2003
9

The Matrix might be a little confusing at first but once you see it more
than once you will get it.  This was Reeves best film besides Speed.  He
played a great part and they sure did pick the right person.  It was just
so
great it is a little hard to describe.  If you have never seen it you are
sure are missing out.
9 out of 10  

******
6 April 2003
10

This hugely influential film depicts the life of a man named Thomas A.
Anderson (Neo). He lives two lives, one being that of a computer
programmer
for a major company. The other life is spent committing crimes of all
kinds
on his computer.
His life is turned up and over when news of the world being a fake- a
computer programme that uses the human body to give energy to AI (watch
the
film to completely understand (its very interesting)). After being
released
from this world by a group of people seeking "the One", living on a
hovercraft with some obscure name. Neo is trained and taught to fight and
survive in the world of the Matrix. Many supremely exiting action scenes
follow that will have your mouth gaping and your eyes glistening in
awe.
This film was ground breaking in its use of "bullet time" and
"Japan-imation". its only downfall, that I can see, and no doubt many
people
would disagree with me, would be on the casting of Keanu reeves as the
lead
role, and though it is easily his greatest role and the performance of his
life, i cant help feeling that another actor would have been more suitable
(I'm not entirely sure who this other actor is), but on past performance,
how the Wachowski brothers came up with the star of such tosh as "chain
reaction" and "speed" I shall never know.
Never the less, this is definitely one of my favourite films of all time
and
deserves to be a lot higher up in the rankings of "top 250 films" than it
currently is


******
1 April 2003
10

         This is my absolute favorite movie, every detail of it is done
perfect. What you have to notice in this movie is that it's almost so
fantasized (beeds to choose your destiny, a computer generated world,
slo-mo) but yet so realistic. If you just think about it for one minute a
computer generated world is so complicated to do. Since these computer
hackers are from the future they could have beeds to choose your destiny,
they could make a whole different world, computer generated. Since there
expert computer hackers, from the future, they could do every surreal thing
in here. But what most people do is think for one second or two and say "Oh
this would never happen". It's a great movie, and it accomplishes what a
Sci-Fi movie should- surreal, but real. For those of you that think I should
keep dreaming, just think about it. Plus the people who jump roof to roof
are aliens, the human jumping roof to roof, is from the future. This movie
has definitely set an example for the Sci-Fi genre, and you definitely
shouldn't think oh that got this off of Terminator, or Alien. Maybe the gun
part comes in very well like Terminator, or Alien, but none of them think up
of a whole different world. Maybe Star Wars, but that's in a galaxy, far,
far, away. The Matrix made a connection between Earth and whole different
world, which hasen't ever been done yet. I bet you there will be tons of
movies that will copy off this one, not Alien, or Terminator.

******
1 April 2003
10

         This is my absolute favorite movie, every detail of it is done
perfect. What you have to notice in this movie is that it's almost so
fantasized (beeds to choose your destiny, a computer generated world,
slo-mo) but yet so realistic. If you just think about it for one minute a
computer generated world is so complicated to do. Since these computer
hackers are from the future they could have beeds to choose your destiny,
they could make a whole different world, computer generated. Since there
expert computer hackers, from the future, they could do every surreal thing
in here. But what most people do is think for one second or two and say "Oh
this would never happen". It's a great movie, and it accomplishes what a
Sci-Fi movie should- surreal, but real. For those of you that think I should
keep dreaming, just think about it. Plus the people who jump roof to roof
are aliens, the human jumping roof to roof, is from the future. This movie
has definitely set an example for the Sci-Fi genre, and you definitely
shouldn't think oh that got this off of Terminator, or Alien. Maybe the gun
part comes in very well like Terminator, or Alien, but none of them think up
of a whole different world. Maybe Star Wars, but that's in a galaxy, far,
far, away. The Matrix made a connection between Earth and whole different
world, which hasen't ever been done yet. I bet you there will be tons of
movies that will copy off this one, not Alien, or Terminator.

******
27 March 2003
10

This is quite probably the best film i have ever seen and anyone who puts
it
down needs a good kicking! The best fight choreography ..... ever wicked
characters fantastic gun and fist fighting scenes (especially the
government
lobby) make it my favorite film. What a plot!

******
27 March 2003
9

Futuristic, many new ideas mixed with old ones. Keanu Reeves is not the
worst choice of all. I also liked every other character that appears in
the
movie (yeah, every one). Almost perfect, but can't reach the top. (Also
the
special effects were good).

******
23 March 2003
7

i first saw the matrix back in '99 when it was first released. And i was so
excited by the hype that i got caught up in it a little too much. I went in
expecting an all out action fest. So i left the cinema in a state of "was
that it?" But on second viewing, it all changed. I began to appreciate the
actual story, something i missed first time around. The plot is as deep and
surreal as you can get, and the action is really just the icing on the cake.
Few and far between, the fight scenes, gun play scenes, are all fantastic.
Edited sharply, and being inventive with the visuals,using slo-mo, then
speeding up the frame. and it works wonders. The actors look cool enough,
and there is plenty of room left to boost their characters, which it will
hopefully do in the following two movies. But it's definatly a film that
makes you think, the matrix isn't that easy to understand. Not until you've
seen it a good 6 times, which i think i'm now upto. So roll on reloaded and
revolutions, an audience awaits.

******
19 March 2003
10

Although many of the ideas for The Matrix were borrowed from other movies, i
still believe that this movie puts all of the great ideas of great action
movies and blends them into one great- tasting action-smoothie, and it will
be copied for ages to come 9/10

******
17 March 2003
10

This inane film, with no depth, starring Keanu Reeves of all people, has
got
me.  The Matrix has me, indeed.  To this day, hearing the harshly uttered
sentence, "I know Kung-Fu," makes my stomach go fluttery and my nape go
all-a-tingle!  I love this movie.  I love the concept.  I have this movie
on
DVD, VHS, and DivX AVI.  I saw it seven times in the theaters alone.  This
movie strikes an internal chord that I dare not question.
This movie is religion for geeks.--Why, oh why didn't I take the BLUE pill?--

******
15 March 2003
6

I'd like to set the record straight, even though this isn't "official" or
anything, I'd like to clear up the fact that this movie is not all that
its
cracked out to be.  Yes it's a very good movie, but all the hype it's
gotten
has just ruined it.  Yes, the special effects are incredible, and the plot
is very unique, and the action scenes are good, and the acting is
surprisingly good for this type of film.  But this movie is only so well
liked because people like violence.  And for those who don't like it, the
fact that a violent movie is actually good for once causes one to overlook
the violence and appreciate the movie for what it is.  Whereas the young
audience just wants to see people get blown up.  Most people would like
this
movie, so if you haven't seen it, see it, because you'll probably like it,
but don't appreciate it for the violence as most people do, appreciate for
what it is.

******
14 March 2003
10
I saw Star Wars (episode IV) 4 times at the cinema when I was 10 years
old. At least once I went by myself, but it didn't occur to me to mind.When the Matrix had been on general release for some time, I was
invited to see it with someone. I had heard little about it, and went
along with little in the way of expectations.I was awestruck; at the end of the film I was left with the same
feeling as I had after seeing Star Wars at the age of 10!About the film? With no prior knowledge of the plot, I was a bit lost
in the middle, and when I finally took the red pill about 15 minutes
after Neo did, it was 'Whoa!' Great sci-fi concept, good casting,
acting, effects, action, filming and use of music. Not a lot wrong with
this film.The Matrix was the first DVD I bought, before I had a domestic DVD
player. I was ill and off work for a week shortly afterwards, so I
watched it on my laptop. Several times. It got better with each
watching.10/10

******
2 March 2003
10

Wachowsky brothers have made the best SCI-FI movie in my opinion. At 1999
when the film came out, the effects were something that we had never seen
before, and the whole thing was amazing.
The actors were good, Keanu Reeves was made as Neo, Laurence Fishburne was
made as calm Morpheus and Hugo Weawing was born as that agent
Smith.
Very good action scenes, and that lobby scene blowed my
mind.
I'll give it a ten.

******
1 March 2003
10

If you haven't seen Matrix then you do not know what you are missing. If
you
don't own the DVD then you are missing a lot. I know the story line is
so-so
to some but the special effects in this move are worth the buy. Even
friends
of mine who are not into Sci-Fi movies admit it is the best DVD movie to
own
or see.

******
28 February 2003
10

Good action sequence
nice acting
cool sunglasses
cool spider-machines


******
19 February 2003
10

Oh, happy ranting! I'm completely in love with this movie.Keanu Reeves as Neo, I never would have guessed how perfect he'd be! And I
do love the pseudo-philosophy of Morpheus, and Cypher's slickness ...
everything about this movie, especially the GORGEOUS imagery, makes me
happy. I look forward to the sequels with childlike glee.

******
16 February 2003
10

An intricate and perplexing plot causes the mind to question the
existence of machine life-forms.  This, combined with the use of
phenomenal special effects, makes The Matrix one of the most
revolutionizing films in the history of movie-making.  The
Wachowski brothers make a fantastical big-budget motion-picture
debut, making film critics jump out of their uncomfortable office
chairs just to find acrimonious comments to match the stature of
this movie.  I myself found The Matrix to be one of the most
spectacular creations of all time.  No doubt the two remaining
sequels will live up to the audiences high expectations.  I'd like to
see the film-critics find fault with all three.  A well-rounded cast
provides both comedy (at the strangest of times I might add) and
drama which keeps the viewers on the edge of their 
popcorn-riddled seats.  And lets face it, with names such as
Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne and Hugo Weaving on the
credits, who would want to miss this somewhat original
concoction?!

******
15 February 2003
10

Argue all you want, but the matrix is the greatest movie of all time,
hands
down. Reloaded and Revolutions are gunna kick @$$. The first one blew my
mind the first time i saw it, and still does to this day. If you haven't
seen it, see it. it's worth it. i promise. MY FAVORITE MOVIE OF ALL TIME.later'
KING NOTHING

******
14 February 2003
10

the first time i saw the movie i saw it for the sake of watching the movie. 
there was a lot of hype so i watched it to see what the hype was all about. 
it was ultra mindboggling but it was totally awesome.  at that time i
would've given the movie 8 stars.that was then..this is now...i recently saw the movie for my philosophy class.  if it wasn't for that
class and my supercool teacher i would never have realized that The Matrix
is one large piece of collective philosophy.  every single line (besides
"WHOA!" of course) has a very strong link to certain philosophies including
buddhism and such. i was utterly amazed at the dialogue and weeklong
discussion the class had about it.  i kid you not when i say that the class
was extremely saddened to leave that discussion behind.  there is so much to
discuss.this movie is for the action lovers AND the philosophy buffs!  a double
whammy for me!!

******
27 January 2003
7

The Matrix is an exciting, stylish, thrill ride that unfortunately
ultimately goes nowhere. It has one of the best openings and first half that
you are ever likely to see. And then it all comes down to gun fights and
fist fights. Mind you they are spectacularly well staged and shot gun fights
and fist fights, but that's as much as the movie can offer as any sort of
conclusion. The premise sets up so many wonderful ideas and possibilities
it's too bad the script makes no attempt to explore them in any substantial
way. We are introduced to The Matrix. We see The Matrix as a kind of
playground, then as a kind of battle ground. And then that's it. Questions
like if you were rebels fighting against an evil enemy that had enslaved
mankind, why would your method of attack be the equivalent of going to their
house and playing Nintendo against them? Ahh, well, The Matrix is born
waiting for a sequel and not one but two are in the offing. Hopefully they
can bring a more rounded experience to what is, in The Matrix alone,
essentially a very stylish, action packed piece of fluff.

******
25 January 2003
6

I was obsessed with this movie, so much so I actually bought two copies
(in
case I happened to lose one); but, as time went by, I started watching it
less and less, and I began to realize that it just isn't a very good
movie.
It's entertaining, has awesome special effects, and the martial arts
scenes
are amazing, but as far as being an actual movie, it has nothing new.  The
ending is a huge let-down, the acting is dreadful, and the dialogue seems
forced and cliched.  I still watch it occasionally and plan to see the
sequels, yet with a different mind set: I'm not watching the "greatest
movie
ever"; I'm watching a nice action movie.  Okay, an excellent action movie.
Which it is.  It has set new standards in special effects that will be
seen
for years to come.  All in all, I wish I could return to the naivete I had
3
years ago; it's not as much fun watching a movie you know is
bad.

******
17 January 2003
10

If you are bored with the standard sci-fi junk plaguing your Blockbuster,
then rent The Matrix. The Wachowski Brother's tale of rebel computer
hackers
fighting the system (literally) in order to save enslaved human minds is
deep, thought provoking, and jaw-dropping. With it's elaborate script that
keeps things complex and intelligent, suburb special effects that will
cause
your eyes to fly out of your head, and the good performances by Laurence
Fishburne as the Zen-esque leader, Carrie Anne Moss as the bad girl love
interest, and Hugo Weaving as the terrifying villan this is a must-see if
you are a sci-fi fan or just someone looking for a smart film. A personal
favorite.

******
17 January 2003
10

Unfortunately no one can be told what the matrix is.. u have to see it for
your self .. an awesome film with outstanding special effect and one of
the
best scripts of all time. Wachowski Bros show how a pretty common SI-FI
story can make a lot of difference in the theater.Without a the simplest of redundant dialog, the movie flows like a smooth
velvet. And unlike many other films, I guess they didn't try to give any
arbitrary special effect or anything. Even  I felt, the room number of
Neo,
101 sounds a bit like Neo, and 303 sounds a bit like Trinity.. :).. which
is
kind of cool.. when the smallest things look finer, it feels great..It leaves a loads of mystery to uncover in the sequel, like "Zayan", the
only human city, and the love-story of Neo and Trinity, what happens to
Oracle and her spoon-benders.. and surly the 4 of them can't fight against
all the AI's. So.. who would be the other people to fight with them...Hope the next one would be as good as this one.. and if it isn't.. "fate
it
seems".. :-) 

******
16 January 2003
10

I think the matrix trilogy will be discussed, viewed and studied for many,
many years to come. There is something intrinsically perfect about the
depth, vision and layers of meaning that span the first film. This, i am
sure hasnt really ever been matched. Star Wars was good because of the
depth
of characters and the richness in story but the matrix more than equals
this
and has so much more as well. There are too many things i liked about this
film for me to write here so i'll just say this. If you havent seen this
film, GO AND SEE IT NOW. My life is actually more complete after having
seen
it and i cant beleive there are two more still to come!this film is undeniably one of my three favourite films ever
made.A definite 10 out of 10.

******
15 January 2003
5

When Ted, sorry, NEO, and Morpheus sit down in a white backdrop and
Fishburne asks, "What is the 'Matrix,' you have undoubtedly witnessed one of
the worst scenes ever in cinematic history. THE MATRIX is very betraying
unto itself, for what good is kung fu if it is not blended in with what also
has made the BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER television series so great? THE MATRIX
needed kung fu and sex to blend in with what already was boring. The special
effects and Hugo Weaving are great, but everything else
lacks.What is the Matrix? A computer hacker is about to find out the hard
way.Bad, bad, bad acting, almost as terrible as BLADE RUNNER. What a waste of
special effects, though, since the camera trick was very revolutionary for
its time. Oh well. Science fiction deserves better than THE MATRIX, for an
entire movie with guns and kung fu should have been far more fun than
becoming downright serious in its lunacy. Boring.

******
6 January 2003
10

This movie is great.  Yes,  it really is.  If you're one of those people
who
doesn't like it then you just don't have a good imagination and you're
too
dumb to understand what they're talking about.  so go learn something and
then watch it.  cause it's good.  yeah.

******
20 December 2002
10

this is one the most incredible movies i have ever seen. not just because
of
the incredible "state of the art" special effects, the awesome story line,
or all the brilliant fight scenes. but most of all because of the
incredible
wisdom in the movie. this is a subtly deep and spiritual movie. so if you
you're just in the mood for an awesome action flick, i highly recommend
this
movie. if you're in the mood for a movie that's thought provoking and
insightful, then i highly recommend it.

******
15 December 2002
6

Sure, a stunning fx breakthrough, but is the rest of it even watchable?
It's
like a porno with stars; either turn off the sound or fast-forward to the
good bits. And even the fx became an instant industry joke, like film noir
voice-overs. Any coincidence that our guilty pleasures turn out the be the
best parody material? 

******
13 December 2002
5

Many of the effects in this movie have been copied over and over.  This
movie has excellent action and effects but I found the story too
unbelievable
to enjoy.I check my watch several times while in the theater......

******
12 December 2002
10

The matrix has marked a milestone for cinematography. Not only the story is
brilliant, but also the direction is great and the movie makes your
andrenaline level raise.The Matrix was the pioneer of movies when talking of "is this the real
truth?"

******
7 December 2002
10

This movie is absolutely incredible. Many things can be said about and I
will choose to say a few. Wow. Wow. Wow. When I saw this in the theater
for
the first time I sat frozen, clutching the theaters chairs, why? Because I
had never seen anything like it before. I had a similar experience after
seeing Blade Runner for the first time in the early '80s. I walked out
thinking to myself, this is going to change the way movies are made. And I
was right, every action movie since has borrowed heavily from The Matrix.
If
you are a fan of action and adventure, then this movie is for you. Forget
about everything you know, or think you know, and be prepared to be
blown-away.No one can be told what the Matrix is, you must be shown
it.


******
29 November 2002
10

I found this movie to be great on so many levels.  The action/fight scenes
were intense and very well coreographed.  The acting wasn't the greatest
of
all time, but it was good.  Reeves has had enough poor performances that
detract from the movie that it was nice to see him do well with this role.
The plot was not predictable and I bet most of you had to see it at least
twice to fully understand what just happened.  But the greatest
contribution
this film has made, is the great camera work.  This is no new information,
but the special effects and camera work on this film has been
revolutionary
and mimicked by so many people since the Matrix.  I LOVED this movie, I
have
become a big fan of classic movies, but this is undoubtedly my favorite of
all time.

******
27 November 2002
10

The Matrix is truly my favourite film and no other film i think will
compete
with The Matrix(apart from the sequels lol!!)
The Matrix is an inspirational film and sooooooooo not over-rated , I
think
what you give is what you get and that is exactly what The Matrix got,
good
praise and recognition which is highly deserved.As for the cast I think the Keanu Reeves deliverd one of his best
perfromances to date, one shouldn't only think about the acting ,one
should
think about the time and the effort that the actors have put to deliver
such
extraordinary scenes. As for the rest of the cast i can truly say that
they
have done just as well, especailly Lawerence Fishburne.I give The Matrix 10/10 :P
cannot wait for the sequels!!!
peace!

******
14 November 2002
10

I've read many of the comments regarding the parallels between the Matrix
and the Bible.  I didn't see them before that but thanks for pointing
them
out.  The Matrix also had a strong parallel with the writings of Plato.
Plato basically believed in two worlds.  The world that you could see
with
your senses (filled with problems, change, and imperfection) and the
world
that you could "see" with logic.  According to Plato, the logical world
was
the "real" world and the world of senses was created by a divine
being(similar to the matrix being created by the machines).  Plato's
allegory of the cave is a story to describe how this situation could
happen.
Basically, he tells of people who have been captured and chained to a
wall
in a cave.  Your head is held in place so you may only look forward at
another wall.  Above your head (and out of your vision) are many objects
that are part of the real world.  However all that you can see are the
shadows of these objects cast upon the wall of the cave.  Everyone learns
these shadows and makes names for them.  Their entire lives are based on
shadows.  Upon being released from the cave the people are obviously in
shock (like when Neo was released from the Matrix).  I could get into it
more but I think you can probably see the parallel here.  Anybody who
wants
to more about it can study Plato a little as these are some of his major
contributions to natural philosophy.

******
9 November 2002
10

I watch only a few dozen movies per year, and most fail to keep my
interest.
In fact, I tend to do other things while watching the
movie.This movie keeps my interest start to finish.I like the plot, the special effects, the movie...I have watched this movie many times, and could watch it
again.

******
4 November 2002
9

This movie is the ground-breaking new use of special effects technology.
When I saw it I thought it was the coolest movie in the whole world. A great
thing about this movie is the fact that all the insane special effects can
be backed up by the great thought up plot for the movie. I especially
enjoyed the "bullet-time" photography that truly can be a new use of filming
that is just barely being discovered and can evolve into something even
better in the future. If you are over the age of 21 I had advise you use
some legal drugs while viewing this movie. 9/10

******
2 November 2002
10

This Movie rocks! It make's cyber punk-movies understandable for the
"normal" people. It's kind of hard to understand the first time but it's
not
boring the second time either.Academy Award winner. Special Effects. how obvious.Follow the white rabbit.

******
1 November 2002
10

Keanu Reeves was the man. Awesome theme music during selected scenes.
Intriguing dialogues between characters. The action sequences were
outstanding in that they spent quite a long time on showing it from every
angle possible. Lawrence Fishbourne did a fabulous job as well. The cast was
extraordinary. I was strongly recommend buying this film on DVD because of
the sound and picture quality that you will get. It will change your scope
on the world tremendously. The dangster gives it a perfect
rating.

******
27 October 2002
10

By far the BEST special effects ever done in a movie (and copied ten
thousand times since) this movie is by far my favorite of all time. It has
a
thought provoking story, lots of paradoxes and symbolism for you who wish
to
dwell deep into the movie, and for those who dont? The Matrix has all the
action, explosions, and special effects you will ever need. I have seem
this
movie 100+ times by now and with loads of different people, not one has
ever
said they didnt like it.Simply amazing.

******
21 October 2002
10

Brilliant film.  Brilliant engaging plot.  Perfect casting, I haven't seen
Lawrence Fishborne so good.  Reeves is at his surfer-dude turned computer
geek best (I actually know guys just like him).  It struck me the Fishborne
could have done either role just as convincingly, while Keano could only do
the role in which he was cast.  The shows intelligence on the part of the
casting director.This is probably my all time favorite movie overall.  A great thrill ride. 
A great head trip.  The rabbit hole was never this cool in my childhood! 
:)10 of 10 *easy*

******
16 October 2002
10

Right now my top movie of all time.It may change, but this really is a good one! It's very well done.
Everything just looks perfect, and is well coordinated. The  actors is also
doing good, and I can't really say anything negative about it,  except may
be some scientific things seems a bit far-fetched... Anyhow I think this is a really good way of criticise the modern system of
today,  where we don't see that we just control their self in a system where
people can  not be free.  Where the machines take better care of the
environment (isn't that  sick?), and so on... The only thing we have to do
is: FREE YOUR MIND!

******
30 September 2002
10

This movie is a fantastic combination of philosophy, theology, action, and
eye-candy. Good acting (even some decent work from Keanu), great writing,
directing, art and technical aspects. A feast for the mind and the
senses.If this one doesn't make you think about your life, you just aren't inclined
that way at all. 

******
29 September 2002
10

Emerging from the shadow of The Phantom Menace,this retina-threatening
slice
of sci-fi paranoia merits a ten for re-setting the special effects
benchmark.As soon as Neo and Trinity visit Guns R Us you know your in for
a
hell of a ride,with Reeves,Fishburne and Moss kicking no small amount of
ass.

******
25 September 2002
10

As this movie came out in 1999 and there are over 2,600 comments on it
already, I will skip the synapsis and head straight for the critic's
chair.
This movie features some of Keanu Reeves's best acting to date, and the
cast
was absolutely perfect. This is a movie of the 21st century: fast-paced,
excellent acting, action, stunts, and stunning visual effects. It also
sets
a new course where Hollywood hasn't gone in a long time: the profanity
count
was around 10 and there was no nudity. Some parts are violent, but it
isn't
nearly as bad as other movies I have seen. The camera shots are
incredible.
The long vertical shots from the tops of buildings, the mirrored images
recurring throughout the film, the slow-motion shots--my favorite is the
view from the ground looking up at the helicopter with the blades turning
real slow with shells dropping down! You can over-analyze the physics and
feasibility of the movie, but I urge the viewer to remember that it is,
above all, a movie. This movie isn't perfect; there is a hole here and
there
in the story. Overall, though, you don't notice them much while you're
sitting on the edge of your seat with your heart pounding. This movie is
guaranteed to provoke thought, argument, and discussion. In doing so, it
provides us all with great entertainment.

******
18 September 2002
10

This movie will definitely not be forgotten by audiences around the world.
With it's intense plot and die-for action, this movie has it all.  For
those
who are worried about missing good parts of the movie because of those
nature calls, you need not worry...you've got a whole hour or so.  The
beginning is quite dull, actually so dull, you might wonder how some
people
can even live through the first 5 minutes of it!
After they are done explaining what the whole matrix thing is, then the
real
action actually starts.
This movie is one that is used in many movies (hence the bending backwards
and dodging move, not to mention the jump into the air when time seems to
stop and then the bad dude gets a bad butt-kicking)
Surely, the Matrix Reloaded will be every more exciting then the Matrix
for
they won't have to go through all that boring junk all over again and can
get straight to the action!
If i were you, i wouldn't miss The Matrix Reloaded or the Matrix if you
haven't seen it yet!!!

******
8 September 2002
10

"The Matrix" is one of the greatest movies ever made, without a doubt. It
deserves every single bit of credit that it gets. The best movie of 1999,for
sure as well.Everything,cast,script,direction,special effects and production
design,is just excellent.I'd say more,but there's not much else left to be said about it: Everyone
knows "The Matrix" is a masterpiece.Obviously,I can't wait for the sequels.Rating: 10 of 10

******
2 September 2002
10
Week-by-week, Hollywood studios flood screens with commercial
productions that drag regular people from their real lives to watch
thinking-free brainwashing movies. What they call entertainment. The
Matrix is an exception. It shows through its metaphors that the
humankind is being slaved by the system. Religion, corporations,
capitalism, media, etc. It's more like an awaking call to a worldwide
spread unconsciousness that is being kept by, also unconscious, greedy
power-addicted few. All that and much more is wrapped-up in this
brilliant trilogy's 1st episode which you probably should watch more
then once to get a better grasp of its rich content. My favorite movie
of all time.

******
31 August 2002
10

I have so many favourites, but 'Matrix' has to top them all. They made it
very clear of this computer world and the reality that it could exist,
really made me think. The movie also set the standards of future computer
graphics. Can't wait for the sequel. Don't let me down. 


******
28 August 2002
9

Enough has already been said about how brilliant The Matrix is and I'm not
going to add that much. It is curious to note however that as The Matrix
was
released in 1999, another ground breaking film was released twenty years
earlier in 1979. I'm talking about Ridley Scott's Alien and whilst the
differences between the two films are broad, both have stamped their mark
as
cutting edge science fiction films of the twentieth century.

******
27 August 2002
10

I just rented the movie Blade last night, and I can't believe how
incredibly
similar many aspects, effects, images and sequences in Blade were to the
subsequently released Matrix. In fact I had to look today on IMDB to see
who
exactly was involved in both movies, only to find out that virtually
nobody
had anything to do with both. I could not believe that not only had I not
realized this before, but that I hadn't even heard anything about how
similar the two are. These two movies are more similar in presentation,
artistic imagination and cinematography than Pi and Requiem For a Dream!
I'm
not saying, necessarily, that it detracts from the incredible effort and
excellence apparent in The Matrix, or that the two are all that
comparable,
but when I see someone performing hyper-realistic martial arts with an
unbelievable machine gun and a black trenchcoat jumping through the air
flippping and killing 100 people a minute to techno music I feel like I'm
experiencing deja-vu! Like I said I'm not knocking The Matrix, I just had
to
put this info out there!!!!

******
24 August 2002
9

I enjoyed The Matrix. It was good to see a perennial theme from S.F.
(notable Egan, for example) writing brought to the screen. The special
effects and the action were excellent - ground-breaking in
ways.However, it's not as if this was a novel plot, or if the acting were that
good, or indeed as if the plot was without holes. Indeed, the entire
reason
for the matrix indicated that the AIs were in ignorance of the laws of
thermodynamics.Not only that, but the bizarre rules (can only leave the matrix via a
_simulated_ (remember that) phone line) were far too obviously set up to
add
drama, rather than as a logical outcome of the rules of the
system.Compare this movie with, say, "The Fellowship of the Ring", where the
world
and what happens within it are clearly the results of the rules _behind_
the
world, and the flaws of "The Matrix" become clear, almost
overwhelming.In summary, excellent fluff - but like candy-floss, no lasting value or
impact.


******
22 August 2002
10

the matrix is the best movie ever made in the history of cinema. It as
completely revolutionised movies. the more you watch it the more you like
it
and understand the meaning of the film. I am 100% sure the sequels will be
as good or better.

******
20 August 2002
10

"The Matrix" must definitely be the best action film ever - at least in my
opinion.In terms of eye candy, "The Matrix" is like a chocolate sundae.  Even if
you
watch it with the sound on mute, the film looks absolutely amazing.  It is
drenched in such superlative cyberpunk atmosphere, with slick
cinematography, sets, and costume design.  The direction by the
Watchowski's
is full of vision.Additionally, the action scenes themselves are so over-the-top.  No action
film before has filmed action sequences this way: frequent slow-motion,
off-the-wall (literally) choreography mixture of martial arts and gunplay.
The lobby scene toward the end of the film is perhaps the best action
sequence of any film, period.The story is also competent, with many mind-blowing moments.This film will definitely be a cult classic.  I hope the sequels are as
good
(but it seems like it will be difficult to top the original!10/10

******
14 August 2002
10

 This movie is just action-Packed! It's got some wicked action-sequences
(The Lobby scene is the best EVER!), There is alot of talking, but this is a
little confusing and you have to watch it a few times. Buy it or Rent it for
a week so you can watch it more than once. It's got great acting, Great
plot, Great Action, No Gore (Good for sensitive people) and Great Special
Effects!!!!
         Rating: 10/10

******
14 August 2002
10

After success with the low budget movie Bound, the Wachowski brothers
followed up with this behemoth of a movie. Starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence
Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss, The Matrix is a sci-fi blockbuster of
monstrous proportions.What if you wasn't in control of your life and that fate has things planned
out for you? But what if you didn't believe in fate and that you don't like
the idea that you are not in control of your life? This is the dilemma for
computer programmer and hacker Thomas A. Anderson/Neo
(Reeves). It seems that there is more going on than it seems as Neo has
been
looking for answers to a question that has been rattling around inside his
noggin for quite some time. He is contacted by a man calling himself
Morpheus (Fishburne) who claims to have the answers. Why are mysterious
government type men in shades and suits chasing him? Does he know things
that these men don't? And what the hell is the Matrix?As the film boasted a 'What is the Matrix?' tagline, it would be all too
easy to give away the big revelation as there are still people out there
who
have still yet to see the film. However, it can be said that that this
movie
does make you question a lot of things about reality, our future as to
where
we really are going in terms of the advancing wonders (if you can call it a
wonder) of technology.Obviously filmed with a mega sized budget, Andy and Larry (Wachowski) have
used every last penny to great effect using (at the time) up to date
special
effects that had never been seen before. They've also got their heads
screwed on by not letting the effects overshadow the narrative which can so
obviously ruin a film.Another thing that makes The Matrix such an amazing film is the action and
fight sequences. In this day and age, musclebound heroics of the '80's are
out of the window and a new slimline look is needed. It has set the
benchmark for the new millenium for sci-fi/action, as what Die Hard did for
the action movie in the late '80's. The martial arts sequences are given an
eastern style and gun battles are brought to us in superb slow motion
making
it more in-your-face.One thing that also helps the movie along is the actors ability to pull off
such an elaborate script. Okay, so Keanu Reeves maybe not be the best actor
in the world but give credit where credit's due, he pulls his character off
enough to make it believable. Laurence Fishburne is superb as Morpheus and
the rest of the cast carry off their characters with style.Unfortunately there is a down side to all of this and that it has to end at
some point but that doesn't stop a repeat viewing or ten. Some people might
find that the movie is a bit too intelligent at times for their liking but
hell, beggars can't be choosers. The Matrix has to be seen at least twice
to
get the general plot as there is a lot to take in. Some might even get it
it
after just the initial viewing but there is so much going on that more than
one viewing is essential.Overall, The Matrix is a superb movie that taxes the grey matter to its'
limits without overloading it and assaults the senses with style.


******
12 August 2002
6

The Matrix is a classic special effects movie in a similar way Jurassic Park
is, it has ushered in a new age of special effects that will rule the cinema
for the next decade but the actual film is below average at best. Everyone
now knows about the lobby shoot out and the 'I know Kung Fu' sequences (now
surpassed by Crouching Tiger') and they deserve all the praise they get its
just a shame that they're ruined by the dull and lifeless characters. How
Reeves gets acting work in Hollywood I have no idea, every-time he speaks
you want to point and laugh at his blank expressions and awful line reading,
there is more charisma in a dead fish. Moss (who is so good in Memento) is
not much better and Fishbournes philosophies make you wish Agent Smith would
just kill him and be done with it. Dialogue that wouldn't be out of place in
Dr Strangelove ('Its a killing machine designed for one thing') and good
plot with some first rate ideas is wasted by the directors, the cool of
people in suits doing Kung Fu in slow motion wears off pretty quick on
repeat views. It is however a landmark in action cinema if only for the last
30 minutes, it is destined to be copied for years to come by second rate
action and science fiction movies and for that I give it 5/10. 


******
12 August 2002
10

This movie has lots of action. That is how i like it. Keanu Reeves gives a
good performance. It is really worth watching. i rated
a10/10

******
11 August 2002
10

This is truly one of the greatest movies to ever be made. NOT because of
the
special effects, but because of the plot, the action sequences and the
acting. Don't get me wrong the special effects are absolutely amazing and
although other movies like "romeo must die" did use similar effects they
were not even close to as good. For anyone saying that this movie had no
plot and and horrible acting, and horrible directing, all i have to say is
this, what movie were you watching?? perhaps romeo must die because if you
take the matrix, remove good acting, directing, and a good plot then thats
what you would get (romeo must die), just special effects, and action
scenes. Don't watch The Matrix because it's a pioneer in special effects,
but watch it because it is clearly one of the greatest action/sci-fi movies
ever made, and because it didn't compromise a good story line just to cram
a
little more action in like most movies do.

******
9 August 2002
10

The Matrix is a superb motion picture on many different levels. The thing
that I like most about, which is probably unlike most people, is the plot.
Sure the special effects are great, and were especially spellbinding when
the movie originally came out, it is the plot that I like best. It makes you
think. Although it's highly unlikely, the movie could very well be true.
What we perceive as the real world might not be really real after all. It's
very intriguing. Also I like how the movie deals with Neo's destiny. I love
when character's have a great chosen destiny for them. This is a good movie
and everyone should see it. bye.

******
9 August 2002
10

I've seen the movie over 30 times now and i'm still amazed. The movie peeks
on so many aspects. The composition of the story, the elegance of the
fighting scene's, philosophic about life and humans, good
acting.Can't wait.... but i must until May 2003.

******
2 August 2002
10

Great directing
Great acting
incredible technologies
Mind-breaking idea
Almost perfect scenary
Super music

******
28 July 2002
10

This movie confirms Keanu Reeves as utterly cool.  Same goes for Laurence
Fishbourne.Special effects: amazing.
Story: Amazing.
Acting: Amazing (Carrie-Anne Moss pulls off the best tacky-line said with
least tackiness trick EVER!)If your'e not into Sci-Fi or Sfx, don't bother.Carrie-Anne Moss was also in Memento, another stunner.Come on, everyone has seen this by now - just go buy the DVD and watch
it.

******
21 July 2002
10

The Matrix is the most interesting, well thought out and made movie ever.
It's as unique as Gattaca, yet it keeps you on the edge of your feet the
entire movie.Now, I can't tell you what the Matrix is, you'll have to see it for
yourself.

******
17 July 2002
5

You know, once the effects have been copied a hundred times over, a movie
has to have something to it to stand up on its own. Matrix has not much: a
weak plot, spotty acting, and canned dialog. The basic premise of the movie
is compelling, but now that the special effects have slipped from
groundbreaking to ordinary, this thing doesn't offer much.

******
11 July 2002
10

'The Matrix' is absolutely fascinating.
Reason: Great cast, excellent plot which made this movie very realistic,
the
battle scenes are mind blowing, it took 2 years for the Wachowski brothers
to work on the special effects. Well, they did a terrific
job.I still can't believe that are people who don't like this amazing work of
art. Look, this movie is a true classic.
I'm a movie freak and I know what I'm talking about, and I've seen a lot
of
wonderful and awful movies. This one is wonderful.
I recommend it to every Sci-Fi fanatic and movie freaks.
A must!!!10/10

******
7 July 2002
10

hey people this is truly one of the best movies ever. if you havent seen
it
then it would be a good idea too see it. This is a good film for the type
of
people that like futureistic movies. This movies has lots of twiseds and i
loved it. I gave it a 10/10

******
4 July 2002
10

In a great movie whose casting of Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, and
Carrie-Anne Moss fit perfectly with the theme of the movie, the greatest
action scenes ever top the incredibly deep plot. With Academy Awards for
all
four special effects and sound nominations, this movie is
incredible.

******
4 July 2002
10

The Matrix was the best film of 1999 and of decade, no other film did what
the Matrix did for its genre or for film it is in the select company of
Pulp
Fiction and Scream as it reinvented its genre, it reinvented the key idea
behind film which is originality.  The Matrix has left us with so many
scenes, characters, and quotes that we can not forget it left us with most
innovative storyline and the coolest shootout ever filmed.  Too make it
short this film simply rocked.


******
1 July 2002
10

This is the most visually stimulating movie I have seen to date.  I was
afraid to blink for fear I would miss another awesome special effect.  I
have seen the movie 4 times, and it gets better every time.It took me a few times to watch it to really understand the whole concept
behind the movie, and I have heard some people say it was too confusing. 
Let me tell you, when it finally gets through to you, you will know
it!This movie touches on many philosophical viewpoints, and I have heard rumors
that there is a class being taught on the Matrix in a California
University.Watch this movie if for no other reason than the special effects. 
Obviously, this has already been copied in many other movies, but get it
here for the real deal.Keanu Reeves does a great job in this movie, and looks great, too. He and
Carrie-Ann Moss have a good chemistry, along with Laurence
Fishburn.10/10

******
27 June 2002
10

The Matrix isn't sci-fi. It's real. It's not about computers. It's about
humanity. Only the people who really understood this movie knows what i am
talking about. Despite all special effects and great sound editing, the
message behind this movie takes your breath away.

******
25 June 2002
10

Breathtaking from start 'till finish !  A plot so well thought through I've
never seen before. And it's perfectly backed up by stunning effects  and
great acting. Turn off all the light, and lock the door. Sit down in a
digital surround sound environment and hold on to something, cuz this one
will blow your mind !  What's fantasy and what's reality ?  At first it
won't matter, but after a while you'll start to wonder, and THAT's when your
journey begins ...your personal journey into the MATRIX universe
!See it ...and commence your journey !  There's nothing more to
say...

******
21 June 2002
10

SPOILER ALERT.  I love the great action, the look of the film, the sound,
the music, the detail, the DVD commentaries, and certain particularly
fabulous scenes of the Matrix.  But after that, I love the philosophy and
theology built into it.  Do a web search for Matrix and philosophy and you
will find that several philosophy teachers use it in courses.  Some even
have a course something like Philosophy in the Matrix.For those of you who have had an Introduction to Philosophy course, you
will
find in the Matrix (though perhaps unintended) references/parallels to
Berkeley's rejection of matter, Plato's allegory of the cave, etc.  Also,
The Matrix Revisited DVD says that there will be much more philosophy in
the
next two films.There is also, of course, a very strong messianic storyline.  But notice
that Trinity (God) is the one who raises Neo (the One) from the dead.
After
he is resurrected, he is all powerful and is able to see things for what
they truly are.  The enemy thought he was defeating the One by killing
him,
but that only provided him an opportunity to win the war.  Further, Zion
(commonly used in Judaeo/Christian literature metaphorically for heaven)
is
the ideal place, the oasis for human beings.There is more to it than this, but consider watching The Matrix again with
these thoughts in mind.

******
18 June 2002
10

This is undoubtedly the greatest film ever! I used to think MIB was great
but this certainly flies past it. One of the best films mad in history and
it will take something stunning to beat it. i dont even think that The
Matrix 2 will beat it. It'll probably take another decade for something as
good to come along.The Special Effects are great, computer wizardry - outstanding, fight
scence
totally amazing and some catchy catchphrases too - 'dodge
this'The matrix is a great film no matter what your taste is!

******
16 June 2002
10

This is just too good to be true! And I had my doubts prior to watching this
about whether I would even understand it. Please don't be put off by how
complicated it may sound. Because you're going to want to watch this over
and over again. And the more you watch it the better it gets because you'll
understand more of it, you take in more and more. There is no way I can wait
any longer for the second part in this promising trilogy. Keanu Reeves and
Laurence Fishburne (Neo and Morpheus) make a great team and Carrie-Anne Moss
(Trinity) is just too sexy in that black leather suit. What a genius
creation for the modern movie business, you simply can NOT miss this one.
Because it is about to take you on the biggest, best and fastest
roller-coaster you'll ever ride.

******
15 June 2002
10

This is probably the best movie ever.
I never saw it in theaters but my sister said I had to rent
it.
So I rented it and watched it and watched it again and again and again...
You see what I mean.
The whole idea behind the movie is so impressive that I have to give this
movie a 12 (but I can only give it a 10, too bad)
Hopefully the Matrix Reloaded and the Matrix Revolutions will the keep the
best movie story ever alive.
Rock on Wachowski bros.

******
13 June 2002
9

I really enjoyed this movie. The special effects were dazzling and the
martial arts moves like the flipping and the jumps, although not entirely
realistic, were awesome. I also enjoyed watching Keanu Reeves and thought
he
did an excellent job in this movie. In the next one he should have longer
hair for the whole movie, though because he looks better like that then
when
it's very short.

******
10 June 2002
10

The movie was fun to watch. I think the movie was cool I like fighting
movies this is why this is one of the best movies that I've seen,that why I
give it a ten.My best part was when they had to save Morpheus.Or when they
was inside the wall trying to get away from the agents.

******
4 June 2002
10

I have seen this movie dozens of times (you must have the DVD) and each
time
I come away entranced and wanting to be Keanu Reeve's girlfriend. (I know
kung-fu too, ha) Anyways... Carrie-Anne Moss is gorgeous and Trinity is
very
strong, yet feminine character- she plays her beautifully. Morpheus played
by Lawrence Fishburne provides a solid character, I think he is only
character who does not undergo a change throughout the movie. At points, he
seemed a bit odd, but after watching the movie several times you can
decipher his strange way of expressing his thoughts and how he delivers his
speeches, and see that it holds a greater meaning to the story- when he
says
he knows something, he really knows it. The guy who played Cypher did a
great job of turning himself into a little weasel that everyone wanted to
slap and spit on- you can tell he's nasty the first time he appears on
screen because of the look he gives Neo. And even before that in the
conversation with Trinity "We're going to kill him..."Along the lines of "Hollywood"- the special effects, kung-fu scenes, and
dialog work together perfectly- there is no wasted energy in this film.
Beautiful dialog lends to rememberable quotes from virtually every scene in
the movie.I cannot say much anything bad about this film, except the concept may be a
bit hard to grasp for some people the first time around- most people will
have to give it another go in order to figure out what's going on in the
plot. For first time viewers a bit of advice: don't ask questions when you
watch the first time, you're liable to miss something important!!! Just
take
it all in. Also, I would have liked to see the characters of Switch and
Apoc
developed more before they were knocked off. Oh well.The ending of the first movie is actually perfect. According to the plot of
the next movie, The Matrix: Reloaded, Neo and Morpheus have already
commenced releasing people from The Matrix at the start of the movie- and
The Matrix leaves us with a scene of Neo contacting the next person to be
released and shows us how well he has mastered the workings of the Matrix
(he flies). I cannot wait for the next installment, and as of today there
are only 345 days left until May 16, 2003. My only regret is that I never
saw the first one in the theater.Overall= 10 stars. Buy the DVD.

******
2 June 2002
10

Certain films define their times and set a standard for look, drama, and
special effects.  These films seem to come along every decade or so. 50's -
Forbidden Planet 60's - 2001: A Space Odyssey 70's - Star Wars 80's -
Terminator II 90's - The Matrix.  Each of these films became possible by
some technological breakthrough. For example, without the motion control
camera, Star Wars wouldn't have been made. Without advances in CGI software
and rendering speed - no Terminator II. In the case of The Matrix, it owes a
lot of its style to electronic non-linear editing, which allows the picture
to go from slow motion to fast motion (undercrank for the old timers) with
the click of a mouse. In case you haven't noticed television editing tries
to copy the Matrix - just look at CSI.  When the Warshawski Brothers made
the film it took a computer and 121 cameras to create the whirl-around
effect. Now three years later it can be done with one camera and some
Vi(Z)rt software.Let's put aside technology and look at the film.  It's plot is a bit
convoluted but certainly accessible. The sub-plot which follows the
transformation of Neo is there for all to see. The sub-text, which few
people ever get from a film is also up-front.  Our reliance on computers has
become total. Put enough high speed computers into a grid system and you
have a world as imagined in Collosus: The Forbin Project.  The idea of
automata taking over really goes back to the imagination of Czech writer,
Karol Capek and his play "R.U.R." Capek invented the word Robot, from the
Czech verb "robotus" meaning to serve.Matrix put a fresh spin on reality that puts a question mark on the end of
Descartes dictum, "I think therefore I am".  The concept was superbly
realized. If the acting wasn't world class level, the picture made you
think.  Not many films do.  Personally, I can't wait to see the sequels. 
Incidentally, this film's opening is on a par with "Raiders of the Lost
Ark". It hooks you in the first five minutes. Something aspiring
screenwriters should consider.10/10

******
27 May 2002
10

An unbelieveable movie with excellent special effects and amazing acting,
what could be wrong with it?  Nothing.  Nothing but the little-bit-stupid
ending.  It was good but just a little stupid.  the acting is very good and
Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne are really cool.  Carrie Anne-Moss is
really cool in this, too.Overall the entire movie was great and the special effects amazed me.  I can
not wait for The Matrix sequels to come out.  I hope they're as good as this
one.  Rating 10 out of 10.

******
22 May 2002
10

I must have watched this movie about 15 times, and each time it only gets
better. The first time i saw it, i was blown away by the special effects, ut
mostly by the whole concept of the world just being a coomputer program.
This is a brilliant movie with plenty of action and acting
talent.

******
22 May 2002
10

There are certain films which are ground braking and memorable. The Matrix
is
one of them. It's oringinality, kick-ass visuals and special FX mixed in
with some good old fashioned kung-fu and a thumping soundtrack makes it a
better-than-your-average sci-fi/action movie. The Matrix is an action
movie
but with a brain - it really is for those who like a bit of substance to
their explosions. It is a well thought through epic of a movie - a
milestone.

******
19 May 2002
10

This is the kind of movie you want to see over and over, because every
time
you watch it, you enjoy it more and more.
When I first saw it, in the cinema, I almost stood up and applauded (Here
in
Portugal, we don't do that...)
I hope the next movies are as good as this one...If they are, i'll watch
them again and again.
This is how every movie should be!
Long live THE MATRIX!!!!!!!!!!


******
19 May 2002
6

I loved the Matrix--when it was a film released in 1998 called  Dark City,
a
far superior, character driven entry in the sci-fi genre. The Matrix, with
its dazzling special effects, is nothing more than a silly tale of
perseption vs reality. Everyone's view of the film seems to be manipulated
by the effects. If we were dealing with Blade Runner style effects instead
of Doritos inspired "bullet time" effects, would the film still be
considered as memorable? I highly doubt it. Laurence Fishburne is good as
Morpheus, Moss is ok but her character elicits no sympathy or emotion from
me, and Keanu Reeves is just ok, but none of these characters are as
intriguing as those of Dark City. The kung fu was obviously inspired by
the
late Hong Kong style of fighting (IE wire fu and CGI instead of actual
skills and choreography.) This was designed to make the simpletons of
today
go "ooh" and "ahh" while real kung fu afficionados ache over the obvious
fakeness and frustration of chop editing, thus inspiring furhter kung fu
crap like CROUCHING TIGER, EXIT WOUNDS, and ROMEO MUST DIE. Matrix does
boast some wonderful cinematography, but so does Dark City and it boasts a
better story along with it, too. I'll give this film a 5 out of because in
originality it's not in the top, in style it's not original, in acting
it's
saved by one, and story, pretty basic but not complex. Dark City is
better.

******
18 May 2002
10

Bring on the sequel(s). In 1999, the Matrix captured my imagination beyond
all expectations. Even as a science fiction fan, I was unprepared for the
Matrix experience. Neo is a unique hero figure that is a key to the film's
success. Only at the end of the movie does he become the strong savior that
so many other movies thrust at you within the first few scenes. Oddly,
despite the fact that this movie rates among my top 10 of all time, I don't
consider any of the individual performances to be Oscar quality. Perhaps
that was by design, in some way, to focus attention on the story. If so,
that strategy hit the mark.

******
16 May 2002
10

Back in 1999, "The Matrix" was released, and it was unlike anything I've
ever seen before.  Here's why:Great story, great characters/actors, great editing, great dialouges, great
direction (by the Wachowski Brothers), great action scenes (gunfights,
kung-fu kicks, chases, etc.), and most of all, spectacular special effects. 
I don't know what else to say about "The Matrix" because I'm speechless. 
The wierdest about the movie was that this is the Wachowski's second film
they directed (after "Bound").  But, they did an excellent job.  This is one
of the best films of 1999, one of the best films ever, and one of my
all-time favorite films.  Will there more sequels?   Yes.  In 2003, two
"Matrix" sequels- "The Matrix Reloaded" and "The Matrix Revolutions" will be
out in the same year, but, in different months.  If you wanna see the
trailers, you can either go see "Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones"
or you can log onto www.TheMatrix.com and check out the trailers. One final note: If you haven't seen "The Matrix" yet, go see it. You're
gonna love it.  You won't be disappointed.A+  ****** (out of ****** stars) 13/13

******
11 May 2002
10

This is the new standard for action, graphics, music, and editing one of
the
best movies ever made. A great movie to watch again and a again. Cannot
wait
until the last two installments come out next summer. Lets just hope they
put as much effort into them as they did for the first.The standard of measurement "The Matrix"

******
28 April 2002
9

I remember skipping out on a Spanish 
class to go see this film, and it was 
probably one of the first films I learned 
to enjoy on multiple levels of production 
(editing, cinematography, sound, etc.). 
But also, I knew this film would be successful, 
especially after seeing the original trailer.Even by the time Star Wars came out, I still 
felt this was the best sci-fi film to come out
 that year. The cinematography was edgy, 
and once again established a maxim 
which all sci-fi films should accept. It 
mixed in so many different elements: 
visionary special effects, sound dialogue, 
a little mystery, a little action, great 
kung-fu scenes, and plenty of cool 
production designs. All in all, a strong 
film, but it revealed too much of the mystery 
too early, which seemed to be the film's 
only downside. Carrie-Ann Moss, Laurence 
Fishburne, Hugo Weaving, and Joe 
Pantoliano were all good. But who would 
have guessed Keanu Reeves could carry 
a film like this! 

******
28 April 2002
10

This film is THE perfect film on this kind.
He's got excellent graphic, and perfect story
The special effects are remarkable 
and change the current cinema 
We wait with impatience the two other Matrix!!!

******
27 April 2002
10

I had the luck to watch it in english, Morpheus voice is what gives you the
feeling of "I know it all, just listen to me"; the italian dub is somewhat
horrible instead.Yet, the REAL reason I liked the movie really very much is it's "fidelity"
to the real thing: the theme of AI and technologic progress has been abused
during all the cinematographic history, but this story includes it in a
fashionable and belieable way. You never find yourself telling "Hey c'mon,
this is impossible to happen", at least you can raise up some doubts about
the "energy cycle" thing explained by Morpheus.The costumes are most original; black is a trendy color, sure, but the long
raincoats, the cool sunglasses, and the military boots combination makes up
a sort of "brand" of the movie.**ATTENTION: SPOILER FOLLOWS**Example of what I am telling above about the credibility: we are in the
2099
in the movie: mankind obscured the sky during the war against the
intelligent machines, to prevent them using the solar energy as power
supply; big mistake I say: no sun, no water cycle, no chlorophillian
synthesis, no basis for the feeding chain... you need to artificially
lighten the plants. How? Using the supposedly already depleted combustble
sources? Machine have taken up the energy production after winning the
war... why didn't they choose atomic fusion? Can it be possible that in 100
years we weren't able to find a way to contan that reaction? They choose
humans instead, and use them as batteries fooling them about the real life
and making them falsely "happy" to be more efficient. Hey, the movie
wouldn't have seen the light if it weren't for this escamotage, we agree.
But then again: how is it possible to feed humans with their own deads? You
cannot reuse the old to power up the new, expecting there is a 100%
effectiveness. Some energy is lost during the process, thus being the
remnant insufficient to supply the whole system.This is the "only" thing really messed up in the (still the best for me)
movie: the energy cycle.

******
26 April 2002
10

If I would have commented on this flick after the first time that I watched
it then I probably would have only rated it 8 or possibly 9. It is so true
that to fully appreciate this film you have to watch it 3 maybe even four
times. I thought this film film was brilliantly original, clever,
atmospheric and well thought out.It's especially interesting to see how much effort and skill went into
making it. The actors for example, took 4/5 months just to learn the martial
art skills necessary for the Morpheus/Neo fight simulation. The cast is
great (especially Trinity in that sexy cat suit, wow!, she has a lovely
ass!). The direction is superb and I just cannot find a fault with this
masterpiece, apart from at the end, where it becomes a bit corny in that in
order for Neo to become 'The One', Trinity must confess her love for him.
Rather corny but after all, this is the one thing that the machines which
have taken over cannot feel or relate to, feelings such as love or
compassion. Subsequently it is this, that leads to their downfall as Neo
wakes up and kicks Agent Smith's ass!.A must watch for any viewer & one of only a few films I will give full marks
to.Rating 10/10. Master Class.

******
25 April 2002
5

My impression is that those giving out 10's on this one give out 10's way
too liberally and often.  There's too much about this movie that, in my
humble opinion, brings up too many questions as to its value as cinema. 
Myself, I'm torn between giving it a 9 or so out of 10 and a 5 out of 10 (I
end up splitting the difference, as the movie is at least well above
average).  I first saw this one a couple years ago and was impressed by the
effects as anyone but didn't think it good enough as a movie to merit repeat
viewings.Well, I happen to have a close family member with very good taste in movies
for whom this movie rates #1 (somehow I expect this to change as the family
member grows older), so I felt compelled to come back to this one to see
what I didn't get.  So I gave it as much leeway as I thought reasonable, and
my thought as I was about 45 minutes in watching it through it again was,
"this is a heck of a movie."  The story really develops well and draws you
in.  It's the last half of the movie that, upon reflection, is a real
let-down.  You get the most amazing and memorable special effects in that
last half, and, perhaps not coincidentally, the coherence and believability
of the plot really breaks down.I'll just touch upon one that seems to have a gaping hole in its logic
(spoilers!): Humans are used for energy.  Why humans, in particular, and why
bother placating them with a virtual-reality life?  Humans may be an energy
source, but they ultimately need some outside source of energy, and where
does it come from?  No sun, remember.  It seems that whatever energy source
is available for humans to function as batteries -- and remember, batteries
eventually run out without an outside source to fuel them -- could just as
easily and directly be tapped by the machines who run the
Matrix.You raise questions like this, and the story falls apart or just looks too
arbitrarily constructed.  I would urge the viewers of this film to really
ask themselves whether, as a work of CINEMA, this has enough strength as
script/story to have lasting value.  In 10 years, something with even more
impressive special effects will come along.  Lack of script/story quality
cannot be covered up by flashiness and "coolness" forever.  And I just don't
see how this succeeds in terms of story.  Sci-fi films can really suffer in
this regard, though they really don't need to.  My favorite film of all time
(_2001: A Space Odyssey_) is science fiction, after all, and films like
_Blade Runner_ carry immense weight today because of the intellectual value
they bring, even when the special effects have become "dated."  I think that
a recent, similar film like _Dark City_ holds up better under
scrutiny.This one has enough entertainment value in it that I give it a hearty 7/10. 
Maybe it does belong in this site's top 250 (giving it a 7 would probably
put it in *my* top 250), but certainly not in the top 40 or so.  But will I
come back to it again any time soon?  I don't think so; the thing that most
grips your mind is the special effects, but that's already in my head now. 
Ask yourself what movie from 1999, in 10 years, will stand out most.  The
one that wowed or was "hip" with audiences then, or something that could wow
audiences 10 years from now?  As much as it seems "made for its time," I'll
probably have to go with _Fight Club_ and a number of other films before
this one.  _The Matrix_ will likely have the same fate as _The Sixth Sense_:
a big hit the time it came out, but more or less lost in the mix many years
down the line.

******
17 April 2002
10
   ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***
The Matrix was for me an eye-opener one of those films I had heard a lot
about but knew very little about what it actually was, plot wise
etc.I remember very clearly the feeling of awe I felt while watching it,
reminded me very much of the future scenes in Terminator, in fact it now
replaces the The Terminator as my favourite film of all
time.It has a very good plot, I know it is very similar to Dark City and I
think
that is a top notch film as well. It has good actors (wooden spoon Reeves
aside) and is well shot and directed, but the single most outstanding
feature is bullet time, this is the film that made the technique famous
and
uses it very well.The only thing I don't like about the film is the way Neo/Anderson
(Reeves)
defeats the Agent at the end of the film.Other than that this is a 10/10 film.

******
8 April 2002
10

This is easily the greatest film ever made. The special effects are just
brilliant and the story is quite original. A lot of the new films out now
have stolen the Matrix's special effects which show how good they actually
are, like romeo must die. If you haven't seen this film I suggest that you
watch it. 

******
6 April 2002
10

this movie is the most revolutionary ever, i watched it, i watched it and
i
watched over and over again and it's always interesting to find out
something new. the story is just unimaginable and it's perfect, that's the
only word that can resume it: PERFECT...

******
2 April 2002
10

As a huge Science Fiction fan, I really enjoyed The Matrix. When I first saw
it I was blown away with many aspects of the film, notably the special
effects, cinematography and the philosophical message contained within. I
went out and bought it on VHS and have just gotten around to buying it on
DVD along with the recently released companion DVD 'The Matrix Revisited.'
As such, this review is a retrospective - it assumes you've seen the movie,
although it does not contain spoilers.As I said, The Matrix was truly ground breaking. As a fan of comic books in
my youth, I immediately recognised the stylized characters and settings - it
was a blast from start to finish. The Special effects were mind boggling -
the slow motion scenes using the 'bullet time' effect were innovative and
hadn't been seen before.After repeated viewings, my opinions have changed slightly. No longer do the
effects totally amaze me - we can see the bullet time effect on everything
now from TV ads to comedy movies (e.g. Scary Movie.) This doesn't take
anything away from the movie in itself, it just lessens the
impact.The cinematography looks as good as it did the first time I saw it and is
truly the greatest thing about The Matrix. It's like the directors decided
to ignore the rules of what you can do with a camera and just dreamed up
angles and shots straight from a comic book where imagination is the only
limit. Each time I watch it, I'm truly stunned by the sheer inventiveness of
these guys - there are few films that come close.As for the plot and messages within the movie - I'm sot so sure. The idea
that we live in a construct and are slaves to the system isn't new - films
such as 'They Live' or 'Solyent Green' (and many others) covered this ground
a long time ago, although admittedly without the eye candy. The quasi
religious message within the movie is interesting but ultimately feels
gimmicky, as if it was put there in order that fanboys like myself can
endlessly discuss it on usenet. Don't get me wrong - better we have hidden
messages and philosophies than a straight 'kill everything in sight' action
flick - but at times it felt like it was being self consciously clever.And am I the only person who noticed the similarities between the plot and
that of several 'Star Trek: The Next Generation' episodes? You know, the
ones where Picard and the crew leave the holodeck and return to the
Enterprise, only to find that they are in fact still in the holodeck and
they've been fooled? Sure, a Star Trek episode doesn't compare in it's depth
or scope, but still, it takes something away from the idea that The Matrix
plot is innovative and new.To finish, I must reiterate that this is a superb movie. However, my
experiences with The Matrix tell me that special effects are seductive and
can make the viewer feel as if a movie is better than it really is. There
were times when I was enjoying them so much that I half believed Keanu
Reeves could act, but after repeated viewings I took the red pill and woke
up. Sure - the Matrix is excellent, but when the dust has settled and the
effects aren't so stimulating - what do we have left? Stripped bare of eye
candy - all we have is actors and plot. It should stand up on these merits
alone, but does it? It's certainly a great film but an all time classic? I'm
not sure, but I do know that I can't wait for the sequel - roll on The
Matrix 2!!! 

******
2 April 2002
9
The Matrix provides a great thrill for whoever watches it, but it is also a
wake up call to all the arrogant human beings in the world.
The inevitable creation of AI is going to be the ruin of us all, and after
all, why not?
Isn't time to take another step in evolution? To push human kind down the
food chain?
The Matrix gives a worst case scenario of the future and gives us a message
as well as entertaining the hell out of us all!!

******
1 April 2002
10
"The Matrix" doesn't exactly have "something to say that changed my
life", but it definitely has a powerful theme and lots of deep thinking
mojo. In a way, that makes it like "Star Wars (1977)", where "The
Force" is basically silliness but it's sculpted in a way and presented
so elegantly that just knocks you over and makes you want to laugh and
cry both.Laurence Fishburne carries the film. I'm not ashamed to say that Keanu
Reeves has grown on me a lot since the early days.Don't worry, if you're turned off by intellectual-ism, you can still
enjoy it as a straight action movie. Lots and lots of stuff blows up,
some of it in a stop-motion crescendo that won The Matrix the Oscar for
visuals.And if you're the arty type who's turned off by action movies, you can
appreciate the amazing visuals, acting, and directing, and themes.The Matrix is rated R but I would say it's basically PG except that
it's got a dark and scary edge to it. So definitely not for young-ish
kids but safe for your mature-ish teens.Who should see this film:-- Everyone who doesn't mind if the film has a bit of an "edge",I mean this is not exactly "On Golden Pond", but it'sdefinitely not as nightmarish as "Brazil". More like "Alien 2"than "Alien".-- Action fans -- a must-see. What, you missed it when it cameout? Stupido! Stupido! Go rent it now ten times as penance.-- Art/drama buffs who are really into visuals, or on a rainyday with nothing better to doI'll give "The Matrix" a 10 out of 10.

******
31 March 2002
10

Brimming with mesmerising action sequences, a taut narrative, neat
performances and an ambitious plot, The Matrix is a film that has redefined
the sci-fi/action genre. It is the kind of film that makes one think and
appreciate the sheer genius employed to create it.The film is the story of a hacker, Neo/Thomas Andersen (Keanu Reeves), who
discovers that reality as he & everyone around him knows it is actually an
elaborate illusion constructed to keep mankind oblivious of the truth of
its
existence. The truth is that the real world is controlled by machines. In
order to reap the energy resources of the human body, mankind has been
fooled into living in a dreamworld, a world which has them so absorbed that
they can't wake up from it believing that it is real & in which they can
never naturally evolve. Neo like everyone else would have been oblivious to
this plan had he not nurtured a gut feeling that there was something wrong
with the world & had not a team of rebels led by Morpheus (Laurence
Fishburne)acquainted him with the truth. Along with them, Neo embarks on a
mission to overthrow 'The Matrix', as the dreamworld is called, to free
mankind and in the process challenge his own limitations & doubts with the
sheer power of belief.The Wachowski brothers' canvas of man against machine draws a subtle
reference to the irony in the fact that man, the creator of machines, is so
dependent on them. In a world that is at the brink of a revolution spawned
by the advances made in the field of artificial intelligence, the film
offers a harrowing but concrete possibility of men being slave to machines
&
functions as a plea to re-examine the relationship between men and
machines.
But the film's content is not restricted to projecting a world under
mechanical control. Where the film actually excels is in dismissing the
basis of our limitations, doubts and fears by offering a better notion of
complete, limitless  freedom. The film with the strength of its ingenious
and often metaphorical plot tries to bridge the gap between the possible
and
the impossible, and between thinking and knowing. Throughout the film, the
character of the protagonist goes through a rapid transition from a
vulnerable man who is coming to terms with the truth of his existence to a
confident hero who's finally understood his purpose and in the process
himself. The resilence of the human spirit is reflected in Neo's belief,
Morpheus's faith and Trinity's (Carrie Ann Moss) love.The film's other high point of course is the ingenuity employed in action
choreography. The Lobby scene and the bullet dodging scene have already
attained classic status and I'm yet to see a film that has sequences that
could surpass the standards set by The Matrix (Crouching Tiger, Hidden
Dragon included). Characters in the film are quite well etched and every
actor delivers in a 'I-was-made-for-this-role' fashion. Keanu Reeves is
perfect as the believable hero and perhaps turns his best performance since
'Speed'. Laurence Fishburne is excellent as the precise, wise and charming
Morpheus. Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith is amazing in portraying villiany in
a
slow, deliberate & mechanical manner. Carrie Ann Moss does justice to the
vulnerable yet dangerous Trinity. The dialogues in the film, especially
those of Morpheus, make their presence felt and have a faint but certain
rhetoric ring.All in all The Matrix is everything i could have asked for in a film. And
apart from being just a film, it is an exciting experience as well, no
matter how many times you watch it. Of all the mindless films that are
being
dished out today (especially in the sci-fi genre)The Matrix comes across as
a refreshing example of a film that has genuine content and vision that
goes
in tandem with its chic looks. So powerful is its impact that it keeps the
head buzzing even hours after you have watched in. If you haven't watched
this film, then watch it. I could go on and on about this film which i deem
perfect in every manner, and yet i won't be doing justice to it. For as
Morpheus says 'Unfortunately no one can be told what The Matrix is. You
have
to see it for yourself.'Ten on Ten     

******
31 March 2002
10

Ever wonder what you would get if you combined cyberpunk fiction a la
William Gibson, Japanese anime, and Hong Kong action movies together?  Me
neither.  But let me tell you, it makes a heck of a good
movie!!!Lots of reviewers here have effectively summarized the plot and pointed out
the action sequences, but I would ask that you look a little closer at some
of the details in this movie that make it great.If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then creative team behind
"The Matrix" must be feeling very flattered indeed.  Think about it: In the
few years since this movie first came out, how many other film
reviews/summaries have referred to "The Matrix" when describing their
action
scenes and/or special effects?The bad news, however, is that they are all copying the wrong
things.Nowadays, "the 'Matrix' style" has become synonymous with two things:
kung-fu wire-assisted jumps and slo-mo "bullet time" effects.  While it is
true that "The Matrix" did much to popularize these effects (although the
wirework had been around for quite some time before them), the imitators
forgot that these effects were used to support a well-crafted film with an
intriguing storyline and excellent camerawork/art direction.When watching "The Matrix", ignore for once the slo-mo John Woo-style
shootout and "bullet time" scenes.  Instead, look at the other wonderful
touches the Wachowski brothers have infused into their
masterpiece:Look at the use of color--Neo's workplace and the office building used by
the Agents is awash in a pale palette of glass, steel, and greenish-grey
dullness.  The buildings where Morpheus and Co. can hack into the Matrix
are
decrepit, with lots of noir-ish backlighting, as if the very structure of
the Matrix is weakened, allowing the intrusion from outside
forces.Look at the use of mirrors--the Wachowskis have a fun time using mirrored
images to frame certain characters and scenes.  The best example is when
Morpheus presents the two "pills" to Neo; in Morpheus' glasses, you can see
Neo's face clearly reflected in both lenses, but each lens only shows one
of
the pills, suggesting the two paths before Neo.Of course, don't forget the wonderful set design--the rusty, cluttered
interior of the "Agammemnon", and the other jury-rigged equipment used by
Morpheus; the sleek, menacing, organic-looking machinery of the computers;
etc., etc.And all of this is shot with exquisite camerawork by the Wachowskis.  They
have a true knack for "framing" a particular scene correctly, with just the
right angle, distance, and lighting to provide the best effect.  It's
something you can also see in their first feature, "Bound".As for the story, the plot follows a sci-fi tradition that I'm admittedly a
sucker for.  It calls into question the nature of our reality--if humans
measure reality by our brain's interpretation of our senses, and if our
senses and our brains can be deceived, then how can we know what is real
and
what is illusion?  This idea is a sci-fi staple, and one that has become
quite popular in recent sci-fi movies, such as "Total Recall", "Dark City",
and "The Truman Show" (yes, I consider "The Truman Show" to be sci-fi).
Into this mix, "The Matrix" tackles this issue in a grandiose style, fueled
with stunning action sequences and visual flair, making it a new
masterpiece
of sci-fi.I should acknowledge that this film is not without flaws.  First, although
it handles the idea of questioning reality wonderfully, its ideas on
fate/destiny/prophesy, central to Neo's character, are much more fuzzy and
ill defined.  Secondly, it stars Keanu Reeves, need I say more.  Lastly, I
find wire stunts in fight scenes to be annoying (I thought the scenes in
"Crouching Tiger..." were absolutely ridiculous) and thought that a few
wire
tricks in this movie were very poorly done (namely, Neo's summersault
during
training, and Trinity's cartwheel during the shootout).That said, I still consider this movie to be one of my favorites, and
deserving of the cult following it has received.

******
30 March 2002
10

This is by far my all-time favorite movie.  It was just so amazing.  I
mean
everything was great.  The special effects, the sound, the acting, not to
mention the high energy action.  There was also a good story to
it.Overall: 10+/10 (Off the scale)

******
28 March 2002
10

The Matrix will be known as the epitome of science fiction greatness.  It
was far more than just a special effects haven with cool sun glasses and
jackets; the story alone would have been enormously successful.  The fact
that the Wachowski brothers made some revolutionary special
effects
were just icing on the cake.  I have viewed it over 20 times, and I still
get the adrenaline rush when I start it.  No film will ever approach its
level of importance.

******
26 March 2002
10

The Matrix is many things.  Sure, it's one of the best (if not THE best)
films ever made. It had ground-breaking special effects. Its directors, the
Wachowski brothers, are the most brilliant thing to hit the sci-fi scene
since  the original Star Wars. And it has one of the most awesome
soundtracks in movie history.But it's more than just that.  Take a look at the movie itself. Every shot
in every scene is so well done that words fail me. Incredible
cinematography, awesome action, great bad guys, and a perfect marriage of
the action and sci-fi genres.
5 out of 5.  

******
25 March 2002
10

This film was amazing.  Nothing but special effects, good acting, and high
energy action in one.  I think it's easy to say that this movie is on my
top
movies ever made.Overall Rating: 10/10

******
23 March 2002
9

What is the Matrix? The Matrix is the only world ever known by people like
Neo, but he knows there's something wrong with it. Morpheus, Tank, and
Trinity, teach him the truth...
See this and they you will see that it is not the spoon that bends, it is
only yourself.
Whoever made this movie was wicked smart, it is so deep. It's a make-
you-think movie, it has hidden trivia, an amazing script, while being
designed off of one thing, something most people don't catch....


******
19 March 2002
10

The Matrix is pure distilled film making perfection. Every scene from the
first to the last has been meticulously planned, story boarded and shot
with
an eye for the smallest detail.
Most people must have seen a lot of movies where you think "that could
have
been done better" or "that person was miscast" but the Matrix dispenses
with
all such niggles.
The plot is mind-blowing, a brilliant yet so simple idea that you wonder
why
no-one else came up with it before, executed with extraordinary style and
astonishing imagination this film shows individuals working at the height
of
artistic creativity.
From the extraordinary sketches and layouts from the wonderful Geoff
Darrow
to the inch perfect hitchcock-esque storyboarding (Hitchcock was also
famous
for filming his movies precisely as he visualised them) an incredibly
interesting and subversive script and a dazzling array of cutting edge
special effects (inventing whole new ways of filming to fulfill the
Wachowski brothers vision) this film has every technical wizardry advance
in
it's arsenal and deploys every one to their full advantage.
The most startling thing about the Matrix though is the incredible
performances by all of the actors involved. Three months of intensive
martial arts and wire work training make for absolutely astounding and
outstanding fight scenes and extraordinary powerful kinetic
imagery.
The 'making off' documentaries illustrate the startling commitment that
Keanu Reeves (in particular) but the rest of the cast also, brought to
this
extraordinary film. Bruises and broken bones don't stop the cast (none of
whom had previous martial arts knowledge) from doing months of intensive
martial arts training by a Kung Fu Master. This pays off with the most
incredible ballet like movements and brilliantly explosive gunplay. On
action alone this film is the ultimate movie.
Stylish and sleek the look of the film from the incredible custom built
sets
to the stitched leather shiny uber-stylishness of the Matrix to the barren
realities of the 'real world' the film is class from start to
finish.
Every perfect scene segues into something ever more startling yet
everything
adds to a perfect whole. This is the 'Ultimate Film' that could only have
been done in this day and age, the last great film of the twentieth
century
to blast us into the next by bending every genre, flaunting every rule and
thrilling the pants of the audience from the opening seconds to the
bombastic final theme music.
I know everyone who reads this will have probably seen the film but if by
a
slim chance you haven't run down to the video shop now and buy that DVD or
widescreen VHS because you need to see this film right now!Simply the coolest film ever the Matrix will surely inspire a new
generation
of filmmakers and the action hasn't ended yet with two films still to
come.If anyone ever says after watching an old movie "they don't make them like
that any more" say "Thank god, because if they did we wouldn't have The
Matrix".

******
14 March 2002
10

Everything that digital technology can aspire to can be found in the Matrix.
 Movies are being made now without actors, but instead with computers (Final
Fantasy, Toy Story, etc) and it is refreshing to see real-time actors being
used alongside technologies to bring an epic film.  The fight scenes are
marvelous, and the story itself is just a great original idea. 

******
11 March 2002
10

The matrix is one of the best movies ever made it keeps you on your toes
till the end the thrilling action gets your blood going and the suspence.
ohh it s good. the movie revolves around a throry that humen being are
kept
prisoners in a mind prison where a software entertains thier brains while
thier bodies are turned into energy cells. very cool

******
5 March 2002
10

The Matrix combines unbelievable special effects, mystery, and action,
along
with a brilliant story line to result in one of the greatest and most
interesting produced films of all time.The Matrix will make you think. Unlike every other ordinary film, The
Matrix
brings about an entire new idea of how much control we as humans have over
our lives.I can only hope that the sequels will be just as good; however will not
expect them live up to the greatness of the first, which to me is
legendary.Unfortunately no one can be told what The Matrix is... You have to see it
for yourself.

******
28 February 2002
10

I went to see this in the theaters when it came out. I did not know what to
expect but a good movie. After it was over I was impressed. The characters
perfectly fit the movie in every way. I have watched this movie endlessly
and am patiently awaiting the release of the 2nd in the
series.

******
22 February 2002
6

I really liked the Matrix when I first saw it but have changed my opinions
since seeing it a number of times since. I really don't think I could sit
through it ever again, there is only so much you can get out of people in
sunglasses doing cartwheels while firing two Uzis at the same time. What
really p*sses me off is when people go 'oh it's sooo confuing, it's just
soo
intelligent, the story is just sooooooo mind-boggling!' YEAH RIGHT! It's
not
like you need to be Albert-feckin'-Einstein to work it out!! The acting is
unbelievably corny and whenever the script calls for any real emotion
(which
doesnt happen often in this music video.. oh sorry .. film) the actors
arent
upto it. Unless it gets amazing reviews then I will not be going to see the
sequel- save your money for Star Wars Episode 2 and The Two Towers (lord of
the rings part2).
p.s- and the effects aren't all that.

******
15 February 2002
6

The Matrix is definitely ONE of the best action films ever made.  It
surpasses other action classics such as "Mad Max," "Terminator," and "Blade
Runner" with flying colors.  Yet the film could have been better.  For one,
the plot isn't that great.  Yes, for the average redneck moron from Alabama
who drives or wants a truck, loves football, and never reads books, this is
a deep, mind-blowing, philosophical journey into the mind.  But for anyone
in the higher social classes this plot is not original.  Many say this is
the first time they have heard of any idea so original...what we see is
false, and there is another underlying world.  For me, the plot seemed
simply like a modern, popular culture-injected remake of Plato's "The
Allegory of the Cave."  Now that is genius.  That is original.  "Guns.
Lots
of guns" (A quote by Keanu Reeves from "The Matrix") is not original, it's
moronic and ignorant.  Again, this is a perfect example of how this film
was
aimed at morons and teenagers.  Its only goal was box office profit.  The
film was loaded with trench coats, bullets, guns, and a hideous script (at
times the dialogue was so bad I felt embarrassed watching it), but used all
these elements to no purpose...the film had no significance.  Where "The
Matrix" failed and a film like "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" triumphed
was the only thing a movie like "The Matrix" has going for it--action.  In
Crouching Tiger, the fighting is beautiful, wonderfully choreographed, and
visually peaceful.  The fighting in the matrix is yes, visually stunning,
but only because of special effects.  Yes, Crouching Tiger used computers,
but succeeded in doing so.  It used computers to better the film, to make
the fighting look like moving art, not to simply support violence and the
NRA simultaneously.  I think that the acting in "The Matrix" was as good as
possible based on the script, but that isn't saying much.  The film is
incredible entertainment, but seemed hollow--when it was finished I didn't
feel enlightened or like my life had changed, I only felt like I had made
good use of $10 and a few hours at the movies.  Like I said, I believe that
the Matrix was an incredible action film and fabulous entertainment, but
that's about it.

******
14 February 2002
10

The Matrix is the best movie ever. No one has never tried to make this
kind
of movie. it is so unique. 10/10 is not even enough. I have seen The
Matrix
23 times and I am still watching it. People who don't like the Matrix are
CRAZY. 

******
14 February 2002
10

Let me tell you, a movie like this is hard to come by these days. not only
is this the best sci-fi movie ever, it as advanced as one of the greatest
movies of all time. Before the Matrix, I thought of Keanu Reeves as a cute
looking guy who couldn't act (except in Speed). But no. Instead, I see one
of the most complex heroines of our generation. Neo, the One, comes to
terms
with who he must become. He is awakened after spending his whole life in a
reality that isn't real. What is real? what isn't? He doesn't know, until
at
the end where things fall into place. Don't start watching this film
thinking you'll get it the first time through. I had to watch it three
times
in order to fully understand the movie. And don't just watch the movie
because of the special effects (although they too were fabulous). Watch it
because of the plot, and the amazing performances by Carrie Ann Moss,
Keanu
Reeves, and Laurence Fishbourne. This is a movie that has something for
everyone.  Enjoy!MJR

******
9 February 2002
10

What is the matrix?
Be careful and look around you. The matrix is the world that surround us,
that has been covering our eyes from the truth. And what is the truth?Well the truth has a different meaning for every of us. But the important
thing is not the truth. It is to realize that what you see may not be the
truth.This is what the movie is trying to tell us. To wake us up from our daily
sleep and make us try and find what is Real from the things that surround
us. From that point on it is our own responsibility to walk the path to
get
to the truth.As Morpheus said there is a big difference between knowing the path and
walking the path. And the later is something that everyone has to do for
himself.You cannot be told what the matrix is. You have to find it out for
yourself.

******
30 December 2001
10

This movie is simply the best movie of all time...
I've seen a lot of movies that closely compare to this, but none have a
plot
that's as well written as in The Matrix.  The combination of a brilliant
plot, spectacular special effects, and superb acting makes this movie #1
on
my list.

******
27 December 2001
6

The best movie ever? Hardly.Just because Keanu looks so darn cool with the shades, trenchcoat, Bruce
Lee
moves and green beret arsenal, that doesn't mean you are watching a great
movie.Hey, it is fun to watch, but so is so garbage like Independence
Day.The story concept is one of the most ridiculous I have ever
seen.* Human batteries?* The matrix to keep comatose and atrophied bodies from
revolting?* The food chain of life somehow continues without sunlight?The kiddies who think that this is the greatest movie ever obviously slept
through their ninth grade biology classes, else they would know that these
are the dumbest concepts seen in science fiction since the bad b-movies of
the 1950's.The MTV generation needs a good slap upside the head.

******
10 December 2001
7

Why is this film Ranked #36 in the top 250???? I just don´t understand it.I
think it´s good entertaining excellent action scenes but nothing more.It´s
"cool" but honestly I don´t think that this film is more then special
effects.I have seen it two or three times.I understand it and the story is
good but not so fantastic interesting as you might can
think.The acting is nothing special.First of all I don´t like Keanu Reeves so very
much but Laurence Fishburne is good.Entertaining and great special effects
but I can´t understand why this film is ranked #36 in the top
250.3/5


******
4 December 2001
5

I was floored to see this idiotic movie on the list of IMDB's top 250
movies.  There are so many plot holes and laughable failures in this movie as to make
it on my list of the WORST 250 movies.Let's see, some alien force is advanced enough to take over the world and to
create an alternate universe, but can't figure out how to make an energy
source to power it all?  They have to use human energy?  How about cow
patties or something like nuclear power?  Totally stupid.And the time-worn concept of the stranger somehow possessing the knowledge
to save the world.  How brilliantly non-original!And if you are hurt or killed in this virtual other world, then you somehow
die or are hurt in the real world?This rating just shows how bankrupt Hollywood is; there just isn't much
coming out of the mainstream studio system that is challenging and
interesting and truly great films.

******
17 November 2001
5

ladies and gentlefolk let me give you the biggest pile of overrated
nonsense
in the history of film.  Let me start with the plot:- great, superb,
GENIUS....shame about the execution.  Some great GREAT ideas, but when you
get the tree-bark esque acting skills of keanu reeves to carry them off,
you
just know, somewhere inside of you that this film will be
somewhat..IFFY.Ok now onto the acting.......ok so we're done! (im sorry but who the hell
pays keanu reeves $20m dollars to act....please keanu, if you are
reading.....lend me a tenner mate!!).Ok so the effects.......oh my.......the effects are stunning, simply
gorgeous, rippling bullet effects, that wee spinning camera
job.....FANTASTIC, i suppose you wont feel cheated spending money on
seeing
this title as the effects are worth admission price alone.now, this does NOT deserve to be in the top 50 greatest films of all time,
oh no!, how it gets above such underrated classics such as AMERICAN PSYCHO
and HEAT is beyond me.so in short, THE MATRIX isnt a BAD movie, its just so highly overrated.  I
think for me, the feeling I got after watching the matrix, was the same
feeling when i spent $1 dollar on a lotto scratchcard and won $1! that
little feeling 'oh!! ive won!!...oh wait...'THE MATRIX - 6/10 (ok so i rated it five!!....shoot me!)

******
13 November 2001
7

Good Points:  First and foremost, the concept.  A lot of people will think
it's a new one, but actually this kind of thing has been written about
before in sci-fi novels and short stories for a long time.  But for the
movies, it is a unique plot.  Most average people were probably still
trying
to wrap their brains around the story weeks after they'd left the theater.
And, of course, lotsa brownie points for feeding our brains with yet more
mind-boggling special FX goodies and well-choreographed butt-kicking.  The
cast, except for Reeves, did well, and special thumbs-up to the
peformances
of Lawrence Fishburne and Joe Pantoliano.Bad Points:  Sorry folks, but any movie with Keanu Reeves in it
automatically gets docked a few.  Yea, he's cute, and probably a nice guy.
But, "Bill and Ted" movies aside, he can't act.  Plain and simple.  Also,
the movie depended too much on eye candy and the directing was way too
Hollywood-ized.  What could have been truly epic was given the "Let's Give
The Public What They Want" treatment and turned into little more than an
excuse for a lot of fight scenes and instant-gratification visuals which,
while impressive, don't lend much to the real substance of the movie.  And
to tell you the truth, this whole "Chosen One" crap is getting a little
old.
Let's come up with some other excuse, okay people?  This plot device
should
have been replaced a long time ago.Bottom Line: In spite of the flaws, a good movie.  Won't go down in
history
with classics like Star Wars and Blade Runner, but worth
watching.

******
19 September 2001
5

the only reason people considered this movie to be one of the best is
because of all the special effects.  that is what most people liked about
the movie.  I thought it sucked, it was boring.  As someone who is not into
action, the film left me dissatisfied.  I think that it doesn't matter if a
movie is drama, action, or comedy, if it is a good movie it will satisfy a
viewer who isn't into that particular genre of films.  the matrix
sucked.

******
30 August 2001
6

What the matter with all of you? Matrix is good, well designed movie and
that's all! And yes, the first part of film was excellent, while the other,
from moment when Trinity kissed poor Neo, which was slaughtered by ruthless
agents, and he stood up, starting to butcher them all, totally sucks! It's
just like some cheap stupid action movie, where, after he had been beaten
for some hours, main hero suddenly gets "angry" and beats up his enemy with
ease. Well, and yes there are a lot of things, which haven't thought
through. Robots should know perfectly, how matrix works, so they could make
their agents unbeatable, as well they should know any human current
locality. (At least, this should be true with any of current computer
programs, but I can't believe someone should make such a powerful computer
prog without not less powerful protection against any intruders /
fugitives.
Oh, okay, then it all would be much less interesting and Wachowski bros
could not make such a great movie and lot of money!

******
23 August 2001
10

When I first started seeing previews for it I though oh great more nerds on
computers trying to make movies, Boy was I wrong The Matrix is arguably the
Best Sci-Fi/Action movie ever made. From the great plot ideas to the
amazing
bullet-time sequences it was a joy ride right up to the
credits.

******
22 August 2001
10

The Matrix... one of the best movies ever made! It's about a computer
generated dream-world we all live in, to hide us from the truth of the real
world.
Only one man can set us free, a man nick-named Neo. He will have to fight
'agents' (the protectors of The Matrix) as he discovers he is The One. Just
watch it, you'll love it!

******
22 August 2001
10

When I first went in to see this movie I expected it to be one of those
lame
action movies (not my favorite genre). I was seeing it only for the special
effects. But when I actually saw the film I was very pleasently surprised.
It was excellent. It had everything a movie should. You MUST see this movie
to experience it. Also, another great thing about this movie is the
religious discussions it can bring up (after the movie). A must see. Kat
rates this film, "An excellent must see for everyone!!"


******
17 August 2001
8

What else can I say about this fabulous movie? What more is there to say?
This movie is very cool (even Keanu Reeves's very overrated acting ability
can't ruin it). The only additional thing I wanted to say was, if you are a parent wondering
if this movie is OK for your kid to see, go for it. I was wondering why this
film is rated R the whole time. I didn't catch one f-word, so this movie
must just be R for violence, which isn't that bad.

******
13 August 2001
5

The Matrix was great.  Well, that's what I thought when I first saw it.
But after that, it was kind of dull. Plus, everyone goes on and on about
it: the great fighting scenes, the awesome special effects, the
"original" and "deep" idea of reality not being reality. It wasn't
really that great.
First, it was NOT as unique as everybody says. The idea of this not
being reality has been approached in several other movies and shows,
including "eXistenZ" (a great movie),  an episode of "Star Trek: The
Next Generation" (and a few other Trek episodes), and even "Red Dwarf"
(a British sci-fi comedy show). I'm sure it's been used in countless
other things before as well.
The fight scenes and special effects weren't as good as they could have
been, either. Wow, they can fight in slow motion. They can do whatever
their minds can consider, right, especially Neo? Why not just think the
enemy dead? Why dodge bullets when you could make them cease to exist?
Oh, right, because the people watching this movie for the "deep" plot
line really just want some plot with the fighting and effects.
Also, one thing that really annoyed me (SPOILER ALERT) was the Sleeping
Beauty ending. Trinity didn't exactly have a main part until the end,
where she suddenly kisses Neo and he's no longer dead. It was far too
romantic-gushy-fairy-tale to be in an action/sci-fi movie.
The movie was not worth the reviews and popularity it received. I
desperately hope the next ones have more mind-bending ideas

******
8 August 2001
6

When I first saw this film the week it was released, I thought it was more
entertaining than most, and I felt my admission price was
justified.Then a few weeks later, I went and saw it in the theatre again, because a
friend hadn't seen it. The second time around had to be one of the least
pleasant moviegoing experiences I have had. During the second viewing, the
movie seemed to drag on and on, and I had a strong desire to be elsewhere.As I try to think about why this occurred, I believe it was because the
movie was propelled by action scenes and suspense, but little else. Once
you
know what will happen, and have seen those scenes before, the movie becomes
boring. Quite often I do like watching movies repeatedly, often into the
double digits with the movies I own. But those movies have a
rewatchability
that the Matrix lacks.I believe fellow members of my generation are enamoured by this movie
because of how it portrays the hyper-cool existence. By this I mean an
existence where even the slightest things are portrayed with a profound
mysticism and awesome beauty; a slick, hyper-mtv universe. This may result
from a feeling of dull clumsiness and utter unsignificance present amongst
many of today's under 30 set.Then there are those that say "oh, this movie is deep, because it has
'philosophy'". Maybe so, but it is philosophy of the absolute worst kind!
For more on this, look to Nietzche's "Twilight of the Idols" and "The
Anti-Christ". This movie has the most contemptible philosophy since
"Bicentennial Man".As a final statement, I will say this. The Matrix is entertaining for its
unusual premise and interesting action, however once you get over these and
find out what happens, it loses all flavour like old chewing
gum.

******
31 July 2001
6

---Spoilers Ahead---Matrix is unique for one thing, its phisophy. The Matrix tells us that we
live in an artifial world and nothing is what it seems... The real world
is
too terrifying to live in and the people who actually live in it have to
fight against machines. And here we are waiting for the chosen one who is
a
hacker and believes there is something more to see, to explore. After
being
released from the artificial world by taking a... pill( also watch
"Trainspotting") and choosing a real life (here are is a reference to a
greek hero, Hercules, who did the exact same thing, he chose the hard way!
The only difference is that he didn't take a pill!), our Character Neo
fights back not knowing if he is the chosen one or not! And wins the first
battle(out of 3, coming up "The Matrix Reloaded") against the EVIL
machines.So do we, who would expect such a script? Although there are plenty of
plot
holes, Matrix has such an impressivly good story that you just ignore them
because the script makes you think they are there for a reason! Although
the
characters are not developed as much as someone would like(something
smells
like a franchise) but they give you a glimpse of their personality, that's
why you get curious abou their future. Matrix is something more that just
a
fairy-tale, it is a movie with brain, it is the true story of our world.
Because we live in an Artificial World ! We are ruled by machines and
those
who fight the system we call them terrorists!the Sequels won't say new stuff, they'll just bring up the rest of the
story, which is not that interesting! We all now it's going to have a
happy
ending, we all now that the main attraction is what the special effects
going to look like? What music are they going to use? Is there any karate(
because of Jet-Lee's appearence) Matrix-styled in it? Any special cameos?
Any new philosophy> nah, i don't think so.Another thing abou the Matrix is stylish direction, who would expect all
these bullet-time shots, the John-Woo shots, the marvellous special
effects!
The Helicopter sequence(Slash, Bang!), the touch-the-mirror sequence, the
fight in the end(Crash, Boom!). The flying sequence(you know it has used
in
[bliaaah] Scary Movie and [woow!] Shrek!) ofcourse is the most memorable
though!One question: I heard that the upcoming Star Wars is going to be NC-17
rated! Is it true? My true question is Matrix going to be that cold again
or
the in-love characters will move a step forward ?P.S, Why every new movie is borrowing Matrix sequences? Haven't they seen
T2
or any of the DIE HARD'S??? JEEEZ!


******
14 July 2001
10

If the Sequel is anything like the First Movie, Roll On The Matrix 4 and 5.
The Matrix has to be the Most Interesting, and eventful Movie of all time.
The Matrix has the Best Special Effects of its time, and the Acting is near
Perfect. The Irony of the Situation is that this could actually be true,
yet, no matter how stupid it sounds, no-one knows.

******
12 July 2001
10

One of the best films ever made. About a man who learns everything he knows
is fake, and realizes the chilling reality about the world. He then takes
on
a crusade against those who made this fake world. Great acting,
state-of-the-art special effects, and symbolism everywhere. A must see for
anyone.

******
12 July 2001
10

If anyone ever reads this I say hello to you.  I will now babble for a
while
about my experience with this movie.  Endure if you can.The first time I saw this was with my girlfriend and I was very sleepy at
the time but I had to see this movie.  I did nod off a few times throughout
the experience and still thought that I had come away with the story.  My
first impression was that the special effects were really good and the
acting was equally good.  The plot, uh, whatever was my opinion.  Another
impression was that the combination of the soundtrack with the action
scenes
of the movie were especially impressive.My second and third times watching the movie left me with so much more.  I
found the plot to be very thought provoking and the characters to be even
more likeable than the previous time I saw The Matrix.  All, and I mean all
of the actors in this movie contribute the artistic success of this movie.
My overall impression is that I'm sure that this is one of the best movies
made.  Ever.Lastly, I've noticed a lot of the negative comments I've read about The
Matrix are very similar to my first viewing of this film, that its only
quality was the special effects.  If the special effects are all you got
from this movie then take it from someone who knows.  You need to see this
movie again.  And don't sell yourself short for not getting the meaning of
this story the first time around.  It's ok, sometimes we get
tired.

******
3 July 2001
10

I waited a good long while to see this movie. After Columbine, there was
alot of buzz that there were similarities to the manner that the boys killed
their classmates and the scene where Neo and Trinity kill all of the
security guards to rescue Morpheus. However everyone kept telling me it was
great, so I gave it a chance. And thank God I did! I absolutely loved this
movie! The actors and their characters, the genius idea in general, not to
mention the special effects. IT WAS GREAT! 10/10! 

******
3 July 2001
10

Young people today, more than ever need to be led to think about the complex
philosophical issues that determine (as Socrates stated it) what course of
life is best.  This movie addresses these issues while clearly alluding to
its philosophical predecessors.  If all high schools had students read
Plato's allegory of the cave, Des Cartes' and Hume's refutations of
Solipsism and then saw this movie moral education in this country would be
much improved.  It is a travesty that so many have dismissed this excellent,
thoughtful and philosophically complex movie as meaningless
violence.

******
2 July 2001
8

This is undoubtedly the _best_ movie I have ever seen. An exceptional
story,
which puts into a deep thinking. The cast of the film is also superb,
especially L. Fishburne is at his best.A film which can help you overcome your fearsm which tells you that you are
capable of creating miracles. Break free from the bounds, think, and you
are
capable of doing almost anything that seemed impossible to you. Damn
good.


******
22 June 2001
10

The world is a hoax, an elaborated deception spun by all-powerful machines.
Of artifical intelligence that control us. Whoa. The Story sears, the
special effects stake out new moviemaking territory- the movie flat-out
rocks as hell!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.

******
22 June 2001
10

THIS MOVIE RULES!
It's great when you see everyone getting out of the theater thinking if all
that they saw was real, not being sure if this world is just a computer
generated dream.
but I am sure of 3 things:
THE MATRIX has a very good story, great characters (specially Agent Smith),
and a lot of cool visual effects (the bullet time scared
me!)
maybe a lot of movie-fans will want to kill me after i write this but... i
think THE MATRIX is probably the best successor of the STAR WARS trilogy,
after all... the science fiction changes with time.

******
15 June 2001
6

This film is not that good. True the special effects are outstanding but is
that what a movie is about? No, a movie is about good directing and good
acting and good story line. A good storyline isn't the world is a computer
program, creative but not good. I give this film a D+. And Carrie Ann Moss
looks like a man!

******
14 June 2001
6

Matrix - to me - feels like a very bitty movie.*spoiler*There are lots of set pieces but the overall plot is just too far off the
believable scale for me to watch it. I mean humans as batteries? The sheer
amount of weapons used as well just doesn't make sense - even in a fantasy
setting. Less guns and more of the weirdness would have helped. Guess the
guns kept some folks entertained.

******
5 June 2001
10

What an awesome movie this was! I can safely say this was one of Keanu &
Lawrence's best movies. The non-stop action and special effects were so
amazing and unbelievable I still rewind the "Lobby Scene" over & over
again.
If viewing this movie for the first time, please go in with an open mind
and
imagination that will be willing to unlock any door the Matrix has in
store
for you."The Matrix" was casted really well and the plot was very interesting and
spell-binding. Remember..."There is no spoon"...

******
1 June 2001
5

i saw this movie BEFORE the hype, and it was just another movie. It didn't
shock me or effect me at all. sure, the special effects were cool, but the
plot was..well, recycled. i didn't get an original feel from it. The
acting
was VERY mediocre. Keanu Reeves is horrible, and will never be able to
carry
a movie. Carrie-Anne Moss and Laurence Fishburne were good.However, I'm
sick
of people LOVING this and saying it is the best PICTURE of 1999! if you
want
to see a REALLY good movie, go check out CROUCHING TIGER,HIDDEN DRAGON or
BILLY ELLIOT....5/10

******
31 May 2001
6

There are definite plot holes in this movie (come on, do you really think
that just because you think you're dead you die?).  And the back story makes
no sense (why would a computer waste it's precious juice on such an
elaborate hoax as the Matrix--if you cut the damn spinal cord, a humans will
go nowhere and still generate just as much body heat and electrical
impulses--and as expressed in the Terminator, computers have no pity, no
remorse, so they wouldn't be sentimental enough to find some way to let
people be happy).  Cool kung fu, though.Which brings us to the real reason I don't like Matrix much (6/10): like
Michael Bay's Pearl Harbor today, there is a lot of killing in the name of
Good (the humans are killing humans to save them, while Bay shows the deaths
of many US military personnel in a supposed effort to honor them) without
any thought or reflection as to the implications.  Once Lawrence Fishburne
says that the humans can be inhabited by the enforcers, it becomes open
season on everybody.  This gives the message that slavery is worse than
death.  Personally, I've always thought Locke listed the inalienable rights
in order of importance--life, liberty, then property. Once you're dead, you
can't have any liberties.  It's one thing to give your life for liberty, but
it's another thing altogether to have your life taken away for that purpose.
There used to be movies where it was debated whether it was even right to
kill the bad guys (Casablanca, Lifeboat), now it seems to be open season all
over again.

******
30 May 2001
10

The Matrix is not only action, thriller and sci-fi. It's a profound and
philosophical movie.
Do you think you do all what you want to do yourself? There is The Matrix
system. And we only think we are makers of history, but we all do only we
need to do. And there isn't way to change it.
The authors imparted winning appearance to a philosophical idea. Lot of
young people who have seen the movie only as action, I hope, will feel
important ideas soon.

******
20 May 2001
10

People might say that Titanic was the turning point of special effects. I
disagree. Titanic was not creative. It was trying to portray a realistic
ship sinking. You have to have a creative mind and this movie does it. I
sat
through the whole thing without fidgetting (I don't stay still well and my
attention wanders) and every thing was exciting. I particullarly liked the
phone ringing in the apartment, I remember that the most. I recommend this
movie as the next one to rent at the video store if you haven't
already.

******
15 May 2001
10

Being a long time martial arts fan, I thought this movie was great!  The
actors were all well cast (even Keanu).  The plot was phenomenal.  The
special effects rocked!  This move redefined the genre!  I cannot wait to
upgrade my home theater so that I can fully appreciate this movie (I
dismissed it when it was in the theaters :( ).  I just hope that The Matrix
is not tainted by the upcoming sequels :) 

******
10 May 2001
10

The Matrix is one of the best movies I've ever seen, and maybe not many
people could understand it because it plays with the reality and the
ficcion. It's about technology and where technology could take us, about
the
progress with the virtual reality. And that's why this movie is so good,
for
the plot itself and the visual effects. I only see one thing wrong and it
is
at the end, the scene between Neo and Trinity. I don't comment it only say
that this things is typical in Hollywood.

******
8 May 2001
10

The Matrix, was the best sci-fi movie I have ever seen, it started quick
with action, and never let up throughout the movie, it left me wanting more
and was very pleased to see that they have the 2nd installment ready for
release this year and that the 3rd one is in production. Keanu Reeves and
Laurence Fishburn had a great on screen chemistry and worked very well
together, they are both two of my favorite actors.

******
6 May 2001
5
The good: The action scenes involving guns are original. The "frozen
moment" camera effect is well done.The bad: The script is uneven and horribly horribly written. I mean
Saturday morning cartoons are better written than this, not even good
cartoons either, I think that the average episode of Voltron or Scooby
Doo have more meaningful and profound scripts. The main characters
can't even manage to be two dimensional. The ugly: The acting is hideous, and I'm not just talking about the
spoken lines. I can almost hear Keanu saying "dude" after every line.
Fishburne is also attains a whole new level of corniness, Mumra on
Thundercats levels of melodrama. As in another over-hyped movie,
Crouching Tiger etc. etc., no amount of special effects can disguise
the fact that these people do not know martial arts. The fight scene
between Fishburne and Reeves made me laugh out loud, and not in a happy
way, more of a "I can't believe how pathetic this is" kind of defensive
laugh. Hong Kong movies made in the late seventies have better
wirework. The cookie cutter villain is actually the most compelling
character, and that my friends is sad. This is what really makes me nauseous: Two more movies are coming out.
Umm... did I miss something here? I thought that the movie's only
redeeming quality was the "surprise" midway through when we found out
what "The Matrix" was. There's not much sequel material here to work
with.The first half of this movie is decent in that it doesn't really insult
the viewer. As soon as Reeves wakes up in the tank, the movie becomes a
laughable, pretentious Saturday morning cartoon. Junior high kids
should eat it up, but any reasonably intelligent person who has read a
book in his or her life will take absolutely nothing from this move of
any lasting value. A truly mind-numbing movie.

******
2 May 2001
10

The Matrix is a trip into the technologically fantastic. It keeps a
philosophical undertone while presenting mind-blowing special effects. And
in the end, it comes down to a battle of wills, between machines and
humanity, between cold algorithms and humanity's ability to grow beyond
its
own limits and expectations. Visually stunning, a plot that a philosopher
would love, and men in black suits that come back faster than cockroaches.
:-)

******
1 May 2001
10

Welcome to the real movie,
The matrix is the world,
The matrix is the one,
The matrix has you.

******
23 April 2001
10

A motion picture presentation is for the sole purpose of entertaining its
audience, it can be based on truth, fiction or a combination of both. Never
the less it should not be confused with current reality.Every now an then a film will come along that pushes imagination and
technology to a new level. The Matix being one of those films. With its (at
the time) cutting edge use of still photography techniques to the
sophisticated CG it is a unique piece of art that touched many old, tried
and true story lines, yet combined them with current ideas and fantasy.For those who feel that this film was lacking in originality I have this to
say. Art is never original, it is an imitation, improvisation and
adaptation
of many influences, ideas and concepts put together to create something
new.
The Matix is a modern Piece of art and a director's masterpiece that many
will be enjoy for a very long time.


******
21 April 2001
7

I loved The Matrix when I first saw it. The direction was superb, the
effects excellent (though sometimes bizarre), the plot was confusing but
compulsively interesting, the acting was not too bad, and the whole thing
rattled along at a breathtaking pace. 
It was only the third time I watched it that I noticed that it was based on
possibly the most stupid idea for a movie ever made: an all-powerful
computer that keeps people alive for the sole purpose of feeding off their
bio-electricity! How could anyone believe that the world could possibly be
taken over by a machine so stupid that it does not realise that it could get
more electricity from one decent-sized power station, with about
one-billionth the trouble?
Full marks to the producers and director, however, for making the movie so
exciting that I had to watch it three times before I noticed.

******
20 April 2001
9
...and that simple premise is what makes The Matrix work so well. It makes
you think - even if only for a half second - what if our very own existence
really is all a carefully crafted illusion? And how could we rebel against
it, and fight it from within? This movie has the answers. So off we go, over
two hours of great effects tempered by some excellent acting - Laurence
Fishburne for my money outshines Keanu Reeves here, the latter spending most
of the movie looking confused (as is required by his role) until the
stunning subway face-off with Agent Smith, a new benchmark in digital
effects integrating live actors - better, in my humble opinion, that
anything that the folks from ILM have come up with so far. The Matrix is
simply the best science fiction film of the last ten years.

******
20 April 2001
10

The Matrix has everything a good sci-fi thriller needs : great action,
suspense, violence (just enough, not a bloodbath) and that classic love
story. If you are a fan of science-fiction or are into computers, you
probably have already seen this masterpiece. If not, rent it NOW !!! It has
changed my life (maybe because I have none), maybe it will change
yours.

******
18 April 2001
10

This film has it all. It has a great plot, brilliant performances;
especially that of Laurence Fishburne(Morpheus) and Keanu Reeves(Neo) who is
at his best. But best of all it has the most mind-blowing special effects
and sounds to ever grace our screens, I mean they are amazing and it earned
them 4 Academy Awards.This is in my top 5 favourite films of all time. All I can say to people out
there who don't like this film, is that you are crazy and must have been on
drugs while watching this film, because there are no faults in this film.
The directing by the Wachowski brothers is excellent.Overall, if you haven't seen this film, do yourself a huge favourite and see
it. It is likely to be the greatest sci-fi film you have ever
seen.10 out of 10, 5 stars, 2 thumbs up


******
14 April 2001
10

For those of you that don't know what an allegory is, it's a story which
every storyline, every action, every word, can either be accepted at face
value, or completely as an extended metaphor for something else. Famous
literary examples include Ulysses and Brave New World. Famous movie examples
include Citizen Kane and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. For those of you
who haven't realized it and pan The Matrix as plotless eye candy, compare
this story to the Bible and realize the eerie similarities between
plotlines. You may indeed find... could it be true???... a metaphor for the
rise of Jesus Christ. Note the immaculate birth, the betrayal, the death and
rebirth, etc. Oh, and the fact that NEO is an anagram for the oft-repeated
phrase... the "ONE." Go back and watch this flick again, you doubters;
ignore the eye candy and focus on the plotline. Yes there are plot holes,
but these, I'm sure, are to be resolved in the following sequels. If they
don't contain these answers, you can argue your point afterward.

******
4 April 2001
6

I almost liked this movie, though the rest of the world liked it way too
much! In either case, it won best visual fx at the academy (i thought
STAR
WARS:EPISODE ONE deserved it) and it won best sound fx (FIGHT CLUB
should've
gotten it without a doubt). The last time i checked, when someone gets
kicked in the rib cage, it does NOT sound like a pillow being wipped with
a
recently used condom!
Anyway, this movie is fairly simple; it is very easy to understand
because everything is repeatedly spelled out for you. As a matter of
fact, I
already knew what the movie was going to be about when i first started
seeing the commercials for it. And it was so predictable, everything i
saw
in that movie, i wasn't surprised i saw it because i knew (after seeing
the
first 10 minutes) that it was going to happen later! Keanu plays an
average
shmuck who works as a cubicle drone. He knows something is missing from
his
life as strange dreams echo to him from the real world. He of course uses
his
computer hacking counterpart named Neo to find an answer. As he gets
closer,
he recieves a myterious cell phone one day while at the office. It rings.
A
mysterious voice starts giving him instructions that would eventually
lead
him to the window ledge 80 stories above the street. To overcome his
fears
and climb down would mean that he is willing to dive into a dark,
dangerous,
and mysterious adventure into the unknown of reality. They should have
made
the rest of the movie the way that window ledge scene was written- MORE
ACTION, LESS YAPPING.
But why is the rest of the movie so slow moving? It treats as like
we're
nine-year-olds! It would've been better if they gave us few hints that we
can use to figure out the theme of the movie. If i were still seven years
old, I would have liked this movie a lot better, but now I'm seventeen
and
i've already gone way deeper down the rabbit hole than this movie has
taken
me.
It's also formulaic- perfectly designed to get rebelious type teens to
empty their wallets at the box office. It is also written based on
marketability rather than art so the movie ends in a visually stunning
shoot
out rather than tying up lose ends or giving a satisfying ending. But
what
disappointed me most was the characters, they're incredibly dull. None of
them caught my fascination and the acting is so weak that when Neo said
"Morpheus was like a father to me", it wasn't until then that i realized
that he felt this way. If the acting is any good, then we would have
known
that before he said it out loud. Even the Oracle lady was nothing but
useless clutter on the screen.
I GAVE THIS A 6/10

******
26 March 2001
10

You have never seen anything like this before!
I didn't know what I was in for when I watched Matrix. I certainly didn't
expect the best movie ever made!
Matrix is incredible, awesome original storyline, great characters, and I
can not even say enough about the awesome effects!Nuff said! I gave this movie a 10/10, go see it now!

******
26 March 2001
10

This is one of the most amazing movies I've seen, and definately worth a
10/10. This being my favourite movie, I can name few if any flaws in it,
and
I have much praise for the brilliant team of Andy & Larry Wachowski, who
wrote and directed the movie.For some, the Matrix was just a great action/sci-fi flick, but I
personally
see so much more in it. Although the idea of artificial intelligence has
been used before, The Matrix re-invents the idea very cleverly, and the
concepts explored are new and actually quite thought-provoking.The special effects are amazing, with the bullet-time technology
especially
awesome (however I have to say that sending up the fight scenes in
various
comedic ways in other movies/TV shows is getting a little tired!).This movie is brilliant, so go have a look - even if just for an
adrenalin
rush and the special effects if the ideas in The Matrix are a little too
weird for you! The DVD is loaded with special features and the action
looks
great with digital technology so don't worry if you missed it at the
cinemas.Can't wait for the two sequels!!!

******
25 March 2001
10

"What is the Matrix???" I have a simply answer:"best movie for all time!"
Effects,music,visuality,story,idea... that are only some aspects of this
great fascinating movie!! After seeing this movie I didnt sleep for two
weeks because I was watching it for a lot of night times!!! This film is
very hard cyberpunk so old people(75+year) will think that appoccalypse is
coming!But if you like internet(you must like it because you will never see
this comment),hard music,black wears and sunglasses,"lot of guns" and JOHN
WOO´s film you must see it!Keanu Reeves,Laurence Fishburne etc. are realy
good in this breahtaking film!!After seeing this movie you will want to be
NEO or MORPHEUS,if you are girl you will want to be TRINITY(she looks so
good in black wear)!!!
FOR ME THIS FILM NEEDS 11/10 6/5 110%/100% etc.

******
23 March 2001
9

This movie contains everything a sci fi movie needs. It has spectacular
stunts, stunning visuals, a wild yet intelligent storyline and a little
bit
of the unbelievable. Give credit to all the people in the special effects
department for coming up with unusual, unique, and hair raising stunts and
scenes that will excite the senses. Also kudos to Keanu Reeves for a very
believable performance as Neo. As usual Laurence Fishbourne is outstanding
and Carrie Anne Moss is very sexy. For people who like to challenge their
minds and don't have faith in the current state of the world. Watch the
Matrix and let your mind go.

******
22 March 2001
10

First of all, you need a little imagination to watch any movie including
this one.  I am not the biggest Keanna Reeves fan in the world, but he was
a
perfect fit in this role.  The Morpheus and Trinity characters were the
real
stars of this movie.  The main agent was a close 3.  It is the type of
movie
you can watch over and over and still enjoy.  The effects were truly
astonishing.  Morpheus was the cool level headed leader played by Lawrence
Fishborne.  Carrie-Anne moss was a real 10 in her opening scene leather
outfit.  You see, you don't need a blonde with big fake bossoms to make a
movie enjoyable (dont get me wrong, I'll take the blonde route too).  She
just transmitted intelligence and beauty in this one.  And also the Agent
had his intriguing ideosyncrasies that made you laugh.The only thing that did not make sense was how/why the oracle was still
trapped in the matrix. I am looking forward to the next movie although it
seems like it is ions away from completion...  

******
20 March 2001
10

The Matrix is the best SF ever, and one of the best movies I have ever seen.
A perfect combination of great action, great directing, great and well built
story, fabulous special effects and some meanings and hidden things that i
think not many people have noticed. I do not have time right now, but soon i
will write a full long review for this title, because it certainly deserves
it. Vote: 10+ out of 10.

******
9 March 2001
10

This movie is the best one i have ever seen i am looking forward to the
sequel. Because the whole story is like real life , who does not feel
sometimes that they don't belong here, that something is just not right ,
but goes on with their lives. But at the end it is still the ending
question
"was this real or what"

******
8 March 2001
10

Obviously this is a "guy" movie. It is one of the most unique
action/adventure movies I've seen. The premise for the movie has never
been
done as far as I know. This and the special effects create a great
entertaining film. For those of us who are technology minded, the premise,
though obviously not possible, still comes across as something that is
believable.

******
6 March 2001
10

The matrix is the type of movie that sticks in your brain after you watch
it.  Revolutionary in its cinematography, the movie provides you with eye
candy in more than one way.  The special effects are beautiful, to say the
least.  The movie begins with you not really knowing whats going on, and
your feelings are matched by what Neo is feeling.  Then you are drawn in
for
a wild ride of sci fi adventure.  Admittedly, the movie is not perfect,
examples of this can be found in which characters live and die, and a few
choice lines at the end of the movie.  However, if you find yourself
getting
into the movie like I did, it won't really bother you that
much.

******
5 March 2001
5

Perhaps not as clever as it thinks, but "The Matrix" totally surprised me.
Am innovative, entertaining action film. The last 30 minutes reverts to
normal violent shoot-outs, but up until then the film holds it's own. I
won't mention the acting. It's all about the spectacle
really.I note some of the other reviewers took it seriously. Well calm down chaps,
it's only a film.

******
3 March 2001
10

Keanu Reeves isn't the greates actor, but as Neo, he does a good job.  The
storyline was complete, and the new technology makes us able to develop
eye-dazzling graphics, effects, and stunts.  This movie is my favorite
because the intense amounts of action in every scene.  All my friends like
it.  I would recommend this movie to any action craver.

******
21 February 2001
10

Looking for an action movie with white-knuckle gunplay?  How about a movie
with absolutely beautifully choreographed martial arts?  Or maybe one
which
is set in a future of unimaginable decay?  Or even a movie which contains
deep symbolic subtexts?There is only one movie which possesses all of these qualities, and that
movie is "The Matrix."  Think of it as a feast for the eyes, ears, and
mind.From out of almost nowhere, this movie debuted in theaters.  There were TV
ads, a few magazine ads here and there, but for the most part, there was
no
anticipation.  None, of course, until critics began publishing reviews one
week before the movie came out.  All of its finer qualities made it the
surprise smash of Spring 1999.On the action movie level, you have Keanu Reeves as Thomas "Neo" Anderson,
a
computer software engineer who finds out he is the savior of the world,
and
the only things in his way are The Agents (led by Hugo Weaving).  Of
course,
the Agents are basically invincible, almost all-knowing entities, and the
number of rounds expended as Neo and his freedom fighters battle probably
reaches up into the ten thousands.On the martial arts level, Woo-ping Yuen, veteran of the Hong Kong martial
arts movies and highly acclaimed fight choreographer, keeps you on the
edge
of your seat as Neo, Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne), et al. battle unarmed
with the Agents and their underlings.  All of this is helped along by
superb
wire effects, which allow the actors to perform complex aerial maneuvers
which defy the laws of gravity.The plot is one thing which shouldn't be revealed prematurely, there are
myriad surprises which must be viewed rather than spoiled.And finally, the religious and symbolic subtexts, the references to
Christianity and Buddism, all of that provides your mind something to
think
about while your eyes are enjoying the candy.The Matrix is a movie to be seen over and over again, preferably, on a
large-screen TV, with a booming audio system hooked to a DVD player, and
with no distractions whatsoever.If you haven't seen it, see it.  That fact cannot be emphasized
enough.

******
21 February 2001
10

No words can do The Matrix any justice what so ever!It is one of very few modern classics, there are only a few of recent
times
which include Titanic (1997), Saving Private Ryan (1999), Gladiator
(2000),
The Sixth Sense (1999), Toy Story 2 (1999) and of course THE MATRIX
(1999).All the above movie have something in common and that is they are all
classics. Anyone who tells you 'they never make movies like they used to'
is
very wrong indeed.The story although is complex and may need at least 2 sessions to fully
understand is still one of the most original and best to
date.The visual effect work is top-notch and really dazzles you to a certain
extent.Simply put.....THIS MOVIE IS ONE OF THE ALL-TIME BEST EVERS!

******
18 February 2001
10

THINK FOR A MOMENT ABOUT YOUR EXISTENCE. What is the Matrix, you ask?
Something that's closer to reality than you think.Either that or it's my personal choice for best Sci-fi film of all-time.
For
most of the comments that I got from people who saw it was either "Awesome"
or it suck! Why I asked? I didn't understand it or they can't do that in
real life. Hey what I think is it flew over many people heads, young and
old! For me a babyboomer I think this movie is the Star Wars of it's time.
It marks another turning point in the making of Sci-fi movies. As for all
the elements in this movie, i.e. casting, directing, special effects,
editing, sound you name it, all were excellent! This movie is on a very
short list of movies that I can watch over and over again. Yeah I bought it
and can't wait for the sequels.


******
17 February 2001
10

This movie is one the few movies with the unique feature of making you
watching them over and over again. Personally, I watched The Matrix over 10
times, and watched particular parts of it many more than that. It made me
start acting out scenes from it, in an almost obsessive manner. This movie,
in short, was a movie that really touched me. It has great action, so it's
good as an action feature alone, and it's also deep, which is a quality
many
other action films don't have. Two specific things I'd like to say about
The
Matrix: 1. It presents a problem that could exist here and now, in our
world, without any way to discover it, which makes the viewer face this as
a
deep philosophical problem. 2. It presents the journey the hero goes
through, from ignorance to full awareness and power, in a way that makes
you
"connect" to the film and to the hero very much.I liked it, go see it :)

******
10 February 2001
10

Great, great movie. Not just because of the special effects (of course they
are simply outstanding) but because this is a movie to think about. What is
reality.How would you define it. Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne were
fantastic. Carrie-Anne Moss and Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith were also
great.
For me this is one of the most remarkable films in the last years. Many
people just see another action, science-fiction movie in it. But matrix is
different. It has also a magnificent story. If you have never seen this one
you'd really missed something. Go and watch it. It's worth the
money.
10/10

******
10 February 2001
10

The matrix is the best movie ever. It is full of action, romance, sci-fi,
comedy, tragedy, and most of all fun.  When this movie came out i was
estatic, I loved it! I cant wait till the second one comes out.  Keanu
Reeves was great in this movie, yes he is not exactly the best actor and
yes
he did have some bad lines in the movie but he still kicked ass in the
movie
and I would recommend it to everyone to see it.

******
7 February 2001
10

when the previews first started popping up on tv and in movies, it was
very
vague. it not say what the matrix was or what the movie was about. it
seemed
very mastiouse to me and thats what they wanted to do, and it worked.I went to see it opening day and i was confused, impressed, and at the
edge of
my seat though the entire movie. i left the theater with a better
understanding, but there was somthing missing. i wanted to see it
again.So i did, i was it four times before i was satisifed. and i couldnt wait
for it to come out on video. this movie rates up in my top three of all
time(next to Fight Club, South Park BL&U) its astounding how great it was.


******
7 February 2001
10

I can't wait for the Matrix 2 and 3!!! The Matrix is most DEFINATELY the
BEST movie of all time!! (well, at least I think it is, you might have a
different opinion...)!!! I find it hard to choose my favourite movie
usually, but not any more, they're gonna have to make a pretty damn good
movie to beat The Matrix on my list of favourites!!!!!!!

******
5 February 2001
10

the matrix was an awesome movie! it was fast paced and imaginative. a
lot of people are saying that it copied off of other movies, but really
people.....WHO CARES??? its not any of our buisness who copied off of
who..god knows tinsletown hasnt come up with anything new in how many
years? but the action sequences were what drew me to the film, and the
plot was what made me love it!

******
3 February 2001
8

The Matrix had one of the most boring, slow, and uninteresting beginnings
that I have ever seen in a movie.  This was one of the few movies that I
came close to shutting off out of shear boredom.  The first hour was a
snorefest.  Thankfully, the movie redeemed itself at the one-hour mark,
providing some of the sweetest actions scenes that I have ever seen.  The
movie satisfied me on numerous occasions in the second hour or so.  The
plot
itself was very slow towards the beginning, but picked up along with the
action at about the half-way point.  My vote would have been significantly
lower if it hadn't been for that second hour of viewing.


******
31 January 2001
10

Let me start off by saying that I don't regularly watch animae,
though
I respect it for what it's worth.Before another 'animae-head' goes into detail on how The
Matrix "stole" action scenes from movies like Ghost in the Shell
or others, let me say this.It is one thing to copy something that has been widely recognized to
be
part of another film entirely. Like, American Beauty and the motif of
roses
everywhere. If any other movie copied this (at least in the next 25 years)
it would be a total rip-off and should be burned immediately. But, come
on!
Ghost in the Shell? In a case of animae-imitation, I would say The
Wachowski Bros. were paying homage and practically doing GITSa
favor by using their ***p, ok? So sue me=)Copying anything from a film is only STUPID if it is clear the producers
think they are copying a big-budget money-maker to ensure success. Or if
they are trying to create the same atmosphere without original ideas of
their own. (ie: A Little Princess's ripoff of The Secret
Garden.)However, to all you animae-phreaks, imitation is still the "sincerest form
of flattery."And stop finding so many "goofs", please!

******
26 January 2001
10

I thought that The Matrix was one of the best movies ever
made.
The special effects were the best I had ever seen. The plot was slightly
difficult to understand but the action sequences more than made up for
that.
I think the cast were great especially Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus. I
greatly look forward to next year and the first sequel.

******
25 January 2001
10

The Matrix has done for SciFi in its time what Star Wars did for SciFi in
the 70's. It has revolutionized and raised the bar for all things to come.
The number of movies that have been compared to it is fast approaching the
innumerable. The Bullet Time techniques that they developed has been
mimicked and spoofed in TV shows, Movies and even commercials. My only fear
is that when the sequels are released that they will not measure up to the
original.

******
18 January 2001
10

The Matrix is the best and coolest film i have ever seen. The story, the
actors and the action scenes is the best i've ever seen. The film is just
The Film.... =) And that there will come nr 2 and nr 3 of it... ahh.. cant
wait =) 

******
18 January 2001
10

The film reveals a concept which is so bizarre that it grips you from the
start.  The visual effects are very well done, but the film has an
artistic
quality that makes it worth watching a second time around just to take in
the artistry.  Look at the street scenes (eg. fire-escapes against
building)
some beautiful almost gothic imagery at times.  Look at the colour and
textures of the interior sets.  There are also some curious camera angles;
vertical sideways views which help to make this film distinctive.  The
music
is well chosen.  As the film develops to its climax and a siege ensues,
there is much gunfire in the foyer of a building.  The amount of gunfire
is
a little over the top (but it's a movie after all), but listen to the
music,
if you can.  The piece was so well chosen.  Looking forward to Matrix
2.

******
14 January 2001
10

The Matrix is, without a shadow of a doubt, the greatest movie ever.  Many
movies come close (Star Wars, T2, Gladiator) but none match the raw power
and impact of The Matrix's story and characters.
What makes The Matrix so great is not just its originality or the fact
that
it merges so many genres of sub-culture into one nice little package, but
its scope and meaning.  This movie tells us so many things-to know what we
create is capable of, to not let technology become our master and not our
slave, to take what we accept as the truth with a grain of salt.  It
forces
us to re-access the world around us, to ask questions instead of settle
for
answers.  How many other movies do that?
If you are looking for an interesting diversion that will help you waste a
few hours of your time, see The Fifth Element or Titanic,other
fantsy/adventure and sci-fi films that have a lot of wrapping but no
package
underneath.  If you want a film that will make you think, make you
question
the world around you, make you look at the definition of reality in a
whole
new way, see The Matrix. 

******
5 January 2001
5

I can almost feel these highly capable filmmakers think : what a marvellous
concept to make a film from. Virtual existence.
But where does that leave me as viewer. Should I marvell at the special
effects and the overall visual aspects of the movie? Should I see it as
unpretentious entertainment (like wonderfull 'the Mummy')?
No, because everyone is talking ssso ssserious all the time. And all sort of
life philosophy stuff is thrown to my head.
Should I see it as a timeless peace of art (like say a
'Kubrick')?
Hahaha. Well it's a pity the life philosophy bits don't go beyond puberty
stage then.
So i'm left with nothing but marvellous visuals with a dirty tang and thus a
mediocre viewing experience.


******
4 January 2001
10

The Matrix is an excellent movie. What makes it an excellent movie? It's
excellent and original story line, it's excellent ground-breaking special
effects and it's excellent cast. It's a must see for all sci-fi fans and
even if your not a sci-fi, it's still a great watch.What is The Matrix? It's story is set in around the year 2199, where
computers/machine/AI have enslaved the entire human race and are using us
as
a power sorce for them. The AI (Artificial Intelligence) have plugged all
humans into a somewhat Virtual Reality computer program (The Matrix) where
we live our life in the year 1999 unaware of the real world.Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne) leads a team of would-be heros to find The
Chosen One, who is capable of changing The Matrix to his liking. Keanu
Reeves plays Neo, The Chosen One, who with the help of Morpheus and his
team
try to save the world.I won't reveal too much of the story for you but it's a great movie that
all
must watch. Two sequels are planned with The Matrix 2 being planned for a
2002 release and The Matrix 3 for a 2003 release. Let's see if it can life
up to the first one.

******
3 January 2001
6

What can be said about The Matrix that hasn't already been said about every
other 90s MTV generation movie? You want special effects? You got it! You
want action? You got it! You want violence? You got it! You want loud? You
got it! You want characters you'll like? Um, look elsewhere! You want
emotion in those characters? Um, look elsewhere! You want to root for the
good guy? Um, look elsewhere! Let's face it. Today action movies rely on
alot of bullets and computer generated effects, and acting is put on the
back burner...Is it any wonder that most characters in the Matrix look and
sound as if they got the typical Generation X labotomy before the cameras
rolled? So robots are, yet again, at war with the humans who created them. I
think The Terminator did it better, even a monotone Arnold shows more
emotion than Keanu Reeves. The plot itself takes us into a dark world of
reality that tells us our "real" world isn't real at all. Who would want to
live in that dark world anyway? Why bother to fight the battle at all? I
mean any logical person would rather live in this world we've been lied
about, as opposed to the dark world that represents reality, and shows no
hope for mankind. Something happened to motion pictures about 15 or 20 yrs
ago. Fun science fiction programs like the original Star Trek, hammy acting,
Romper Room props and all, made way for The Next Generation and brain dead
acting, with the scripts to match...Somehow, society has been brainwashed
into believing anything with great special effects is worthy of high praise.
Sorry folks, I've been around for many yrs, and I know a classic when I see
one. The Matrix is just more of the same, throw in a man vs. robot story,
alot of gunfire, special effects and martial arts, and Hollywood will have
another hit...They were right, but unfortunately, many of us have seen it
all done much better before...Terminator's script blows away this rehash.
The worst of the Bruce Lee movies gave us REAL kung fu magic(not some
computer generated effects that mocks our intelligence). Next time, how
about making us care about the characters a little, have a woman cry in a
man's arms. Make us believe these people FEEL...Maybe then we'll find
ourselves rooting for Keanu, instead of the robots. 6 stars out of 10. Mostly for special effects, that by now only contribute
to put us to sleep.

******
2 January 2001
6
A lot of people have rated it as the best movie they've ever seen. I
ask all those people to start thinking of other great movies of the
past, even if you restrict yourself to science fiction movies - think
of the characters you fell in love with, and the performers who brought
it all to life - then try to imagine some of those actors, those
characters appearing in equivalent parts in The Matrix. Think of
Harrison Ford's Rick Deckard (from Blade Runner) as either Neo or
Morpheous. Think of Sigourney Weaver's Ellen Ripley (from the Alien
series). Think of the witty dialogue and excellent character
interaction of writers Joss Whedon or JJ Abrams. You can think up your
own examples. Then compare it to what we've actually got in The Matrix.
It just doesn't stand up.Storyline: You can see that at the script stage, the concept works very
well as being a marvellous "coup de cinema", when Neo wakes up and the
"real world" is revealed for the first time. But the advance publicity
told you all that before you even got to see the movie. I don't believe
in picking holes in plot points, unless they rely too heavily on
coincidence - it's not an easy thing to build a foolproof scenario to
achieve the high concept you have for the movie. But I will say that
generally in any movie you are supposed to be on the side of the good
guys. In this situation, however, all I could see was that Morpheous
and his friends were determined to wake the whole world up to the fact
that they are living in an enormous dank sewer, under a gunmetal sky,
with apparently no other living creatures or vegetation on which to
survive. Or they could stay in The Matrix (what we call "real life")
and remain "slaves". I was with Cypher's (Joe Pantoliano) side all the
way - better fake steak that's better than the real thing, than
physically real but otherwise totally unappetising food which resembled
some kind of edible snot.Regarding the action, I have two points to make: a) If I see one more
helicopter flying alongside a glass skyscraper, so help me.... b) There
is such a thing as "too good". I originally wrote how pathetic it was
that high speed fight scenes were so obviously speed ed up film. I now
know that in fact the film wasn't speed ed up, but Reeves and Fishburne
were moving so fast that it looked like it was. A little slower and
they'd have had ten times the impact.Here was a film where the dialogue could have done with some serious
polishing by a script-doctor. Imagine, if you will, if Sean Connery had
been cast as Morpheous - can you see him saying the bland
dull-as-ditchwater stuff that Fishburne was trying to make so much of?
No of course not, and Connery would have made sure of it by calling in
his favourite script doctors (like he did for 'The Rock'). Why didn't
the studio step in? Did they make a mistake and think they had the Coen
brothers instead of the Wachowski brothers? There was no
characterisation whatsoever - we didn't know anything more about
Morpheous, Trinity or Neo at the end than we knew at the beginning.
About the only fully rounded character was Cypher (which was why he got
all my sympathy). Trinity's interactions with Neo, in particularly,
needed to be ten times better to achieve anything like the meaning and
emotional fulfilment for the audience that that relationship merited.The remainder of the cast did their best with poor material. Keanu
Reeves did what he always does. I don't know what it is, but it isn't
acting. Reeves is a star because he infallibly picks smash-hits to be
in (Speed, The Devil's Advocate, The Matrix), so they keep sending him
scripts. But I cannot think of a single Keanu Reeves star-vehicle which
wouldn't have been better with anybody else who just had some presence
and charisma.I'd like to deal with the deficient morality of the film. It's very
easy to say "It's an action movie, so lots of bad guys will need to be
killed", but 'Terminator 2' for example, is a very violent action film
which has a moral sense. In 'The Matrix' not one of the bad guys are
killed (they are only software constructs, after all), but lots and
lots of innocent policemen and security guards are just wiped out, and,
what is more, by the supposed good guys! Morpheous tries to explain
this away by telling Neo to regard every human as an enemy, but this
doesn't expiate the wholesale bloodbath which occurs when Neo and
Trinity are just trying to get into a building. Why wasn't that
sequence put together as a Kung Fu spectacular, with all the human
opponents merely stunned? The last shot of that scene shows just the
elevator as the doors shut on Neo and Trinity, and broken bricks and
plaster and all the devastation which has just been wreaked - there is
not a single dead body in the shot. This sanitised view of what
constituted a totally unjustified massacre on the part of our heroes
failed to make me feel better about what they had just done.I think it's easy to get carried away when a big-budget movie has an
interesting and (relatively) original premise, and the visual effects
do a good job of showing it off - but these factors do not make a truly
satisfying film.

******
1 January 2001
10

This is the greatest movie of all time. Every singly person i have talked
to
agree rocks. The special effects are mind blowing. The story is great. The
acting is superb.There is nothing in this movie you can complain about
because it is so good it just rocks. Go see it for yourself and u will
understand why it is so awesome.
BEST MOVIE EVER ENOUGH SAID

******
30 December 2000
10

this movie is great, i agree with all the others comments (the good ones)
and if you haven´t see this movie, go and watch it! the academy should has
given this movie a lot of oscar, it deserves that! but the academy never
gives oscars to science-fiction´s movies, anyway i think it´s the best movie
of the ´90s and i hope that the next 2 matrix´s movies would be like this
one and better!

******
28 December 2000
10

[Beware SPOILERS!!]Totally captivating and very thought-provoking - had to watch it again
straightaway!  Fishburne and Moss especially are superb and the contrast
between the dark "real world" and the brightness of the Matrix is very
effective.  Sure it is leaves a few explanations to be desired (eg Where
is
the Oracle in the 'real world'?) and it wouldnt be too difficult to pick
holes in the plot (eg Why dont the machines just kill Neo when he 'wakes
up'? Why isn't all the rebels' equipment destroyed by their blast bomb?),
but given the film's premise this is hardly surprising and it certainly
does
not detract from the immense enjoyment!  10 out of 10.

******
23 December 2000
9

IMHO this movie perfectly blends the music and the action.  The story is
unique.This is a movie I didn't want to finish.  So, I watched it again!From the very original premise of humanity plugged in and used by machines
as a power source to the action scenes, I found The Matrix riveting from
the
opening scene.

******
21 December 2000
10

the matrix has effects that you have never seen in the future. It is so
fantastic the way the producers have made it. I heard it was amazing and
it
was talked about then i bought it and i have never seen any movie like the
matrix. So there is my opinion's so go and buy the matrix.

******
19 November 2000
10

	(What is the Matrix).  In 1977, George Lucas changed the landscape of
cinematic Science Fiction forever with `Star Wars,' taking the genre light
years ahead of all that preceded it.  Such a momentous advancement would not
be seen again for over twenty years, when, in 1999, the Wachowski Brothers
raised the bar again, taking the genre at warp speed  to an unprecedented
level with their astoundingly innovative film, `The Matrix.'  Co-directed,
written and produced by Larry and Andy Wachowski, it is an allegory of
salvation and redemption filled with symbolism and metaphor (the Biblical
references alone should keep theology students debating this one for years
to come); a thinking man's action film, accentuated with moments that are no
less than profound.  In a world of the future, things are literally not what
they seem, where it's Man versus Machine, Reality versus Fantasy, and few
who know the truth; among those who do, is Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne),
who has long awaited the arrival of `The One,' who it has been prophesied
will be the salvation of the world.  Enter Neo (Keanu Reeves), a computer
programmer with an innate sense of discrepancy as to the state of things
around him; he has questions, most of which are still in the process of
being formulated in his own mind.  (What is the Matrix).  Morpheus has
answers.  And when they meet, it's Alice down the rabbit hole, and Neo's
life is changed forever.
	Reeves is perfectly cast as Neo, the enigmatic young man who may or may not
be `The One,' and it's one of the best roles of his career.  He conveys a
sense of removed, distracted urgency that defines his character, infusing
him with both a strength and vulnerability that coalesces as the story
progresses into determination and confidence.  The underplayed, subtle
character development (largely unacknowledged and under appreciated) is a
nice piece of work by Reeves.  As Morpheus, Fishburne is dynamic; he endows
him with a quiet intensity that fairly roils beneath the surface,
effectively restrained while leaving no doubt as to the character's power
and purpose.  You understand his resolution completely by his countenance
alone; by the way he speaks and carries himself.  It's a memorable
performance by one of the truly gifted actors of our times.  (What is the
Matrix).  Other notable performances include those by Hugo Weaving (Agent
Smith), who brings a formidable, white-collar sinisterness to his character
that is chilling; Carrie-Anne Moss (Trinity), a strong, vital presence
throughout the film; and Joe Pantoliano (Cypher), who is entirely convincing
in his role of a Cyber-age Judas.
	Rounding out the terrific supporting cast are Gloria Foster (Oracle),
Marcus Chong (Tank), Julian Arahanga (Apoc), Matt Doran (Mouse), Belinda
McClory (Switch) and Ray Anthony Parker (Dozer).  A visually stunning,
thought provoking, captivating film, `The matrix' is a triumph of
movie-making that assures the Wachowski's a permanent place in cinematic
history.  The special effects are cutting-edge, state-of-the-art; the
choreography of the action sequences is top rate and delivered with a style
and effectiveness worthy of comparison to John Woo's best; and, most
importantly, the story itself is complex, intelligent, and deftly takes you
into regions beyond the known.  This is Science Fiction at it's best, but
beyond that, it's a great movie that transcends genre or category; a
landmark film that must be experienced more than once, for new meaning is
gleaned with every viewing.  Enhanced by a driving soundtrack that completes
the package, highlighted by incredible action,outstanding performances and
memorable scenes to numerous to mention, this is a movie that absolutely
must not be missed.  (What is the...).  I rate this one 10/10.              
              

******
12 October 2000
6

I'm sorry, but THE MATRIX is one big slice of bull. The story-line is VERY
original, I can give it that. But the rest is dry, even the impressive but
over-done and plodding action sequences. Performances - no complaints here.
But is overall joyless and not very audiance thoughtful.** out of ****

******
25 August 2000
10

Illusion or Not, faith, rebellion.Every one has a Neo inside them.No words to add about FX  special effectBeautiful (chef d'oeuvre) movie. 10/10

******
24 August 2000
6

The MatrixRating: ***/******Warning* Some SpoilersSee The Matrix for this reason and this reason only: the special effects. I
think thespian Keanu Reeves said it best: whoa. The film is also very
imaginative, except for the opening rooftop chase (which looked like it was
right out of Vertigo) and the ending. Which is said because The Matrix
should've really ended with a leap of imagination, rather than the
shootout-kung fu fight-resurrection kiss it does end with.I do have some other complaints about the film. First of all the villains
are one-dimensional. They're man made machines taking over the human race,
therefore they are evil and must be destroyed. Only not in this film, we'll
have to wait for the sequels. The heroes aren't much better, being the sort
of characters who would fit right into any comic book. But my biggest gripe
has to be with who the hero is: Keanu Reeves. In The Matrix, Reeves turns
out to be the savior of mankind. I'm sorry, but I have an extremely hard
time trying to swallow that. I wouldn't trust this man to sell me a stamp. I
even had a hard time believing that he was a member of the Los Angeles Bomb
Squad in Speed. Now I'm meant to accept him as the one man who can save
humanity!?

******
23 August 2000
6

I must admit, I was disappointed. After all I read, it was an action film
that was visually stunning. I wanted more. I wanted characters I cared
about, and to be honest I didn't care if they died. All in all an above
average movie, but good action film. 


******
22 August 2000
10

I really have no idea what movie most of the other reviewers watched, but
it
must not have been this one.  Everything about the Martix.The acting was impeccable.  Everyone who says Keanu Reeves can't act
probably
just saw Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure or Bogus Journey (which, by the
way, SO totally ruled) and didn't bother to even watch this movie before
bashing it.  Hugo Weaving was by far the best villain of the late 90's.
Joe
Pantoliano is a great hidden enemy, and the rest of the cast is no less
magnificent.The Special Effects were amazing.  I was in  shock when Isaw just about
every scene.The action was no less spectacular as it was ample.But the best part was the plot.  It was one of the most original movies of
all time.I think that anyone who disliked this movie is no fan of movies.  I'm
suprised that I liked it.  I'm a B-movie man myself.

******
18 August 2000
10

This movie is so cool, that im acctually watching it right now on my big
screen. The big screen that I use to watch this movie on DVD each and every
single day. Since the day that I got the movie in my hands, i feel
powerfull, like i can dodge bullets. But then when me and my uncle tried it,
he ended up in the hospital and had serious surgeries on his spinal erector.
I even tried to shoot up a government lobby, but right when I stepped
through, I turned around and walked back out because NEO used more than just
2 guns, and thats only the ammount that I had tucked under my belt. Or else
all of you that are reading this right now would've seen me on the news and
there would've been another big deal about movies encouraging teenagers into
doing violent acts. The movie kicks A55!!!!!!! 

******
17 August 2000
6

This movie was entertaining, but I must say I'm baffled by all the hype
and
enthusiasm.  The movie rolled along with lots of action and violence so
you
weren't bored.  I've seen comments on this being a thinking man's movie,
it's not even a thinking producer's movie.  There are basically two
"ideas"
in the movie (I won't spoil, because they are the movie).  Both of these
ideas are simply grabbed from other science fiction writing without any
sort
of original twist, except for combining them.  When you first learn about
these two main ideas it's surprising only because they come from nowhere,
you're not really expecting them, but you are trying to figure out a few
things.  Up to this point in the movie it's pretty neat, but lacks any
subtlety, they just throw it at you.  After they introduce the two main
themes just sit back and watch the action, nothing else intriguing
happens.As I said before, the movie keeps moving so you don't get bored. But after
a
while the gaps in logic and inconsistencies get a little overwhelming.
Part
of fantasy stories is the creation of a universe where certain rules apply
that may be different than what we are used to, whether it's in space or
software.   This movie makes no attempt at explaining anything, and with
the
stuff they throw at you, they need to explain it (for the thinking man at
least).  Science fiction doesn't need to be believable, per se (it is
fiction), but it should be believable within the boundaries set for that
story.  It's seems like they wrote the plot as a first try and didn't
bother
with details.  For example, what's up with the phone thing why not just
click you're heels together three times.  "The body can't live without the
brain" doesn't mean you can just sort of makeup arbitrary rules throughout
the story.Another thing I can't figure out is why in this universe they have to walk
around with stone faces all the time.  Perhaps that was just too make sure
Keanu Reeves didn't stand out as a bad actor.  It worked, this was the
least
annoying role I've seen him in.  A movie without any dialogue is a perfect
fit for Keanu.Despite the shallowness of the movies and the bad acting, I did enjoy
watching it, but not as a thinking man.  If you just let the movie unfold
in
front of you it has enough action and graphics to be entertaining.It does sadden me how such a one dimensional movie can overwhelm the minds
of people.  Maybe you all need to read a book once in a while to
understand
what real complexity is.  Just throwing out someone else's ideas with
computer graphics does not make a genius, although it can be
entertaining.

******
14 August 2000
4

     Okay, I know a lot of heat is going to come my way for saying this, but
I'm ready.  So, here goes:  I did NOT like this movie!  I'm not saying that
it's terrible, just that it didn't move me the way that it seems to have
touched some people's lives.  The perpetually perplexed Keanu Reeves is
Thomas aka Neo, an office grunt/computer hacker who is recruited by the
mysterious Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne)to free humanity from enslavement by
machines.  It seems that the world that we are living in is all an illusion
provided by free-thinking computers who are using people as batteries (Can I
be an ENERGIZER?  They last longer).  The only thing standing between
humanity and totally servitude are the Agents, led by the soulless Agent
Smith (played by Hugo Weaving in a good performance).  Agents are the only
ones who seem to have the ability to alter the reality around them, making
them able to do fantastic things like dodge bullets and the like.  Neo is
shown that he, too, can alter the world around him when Morpheus jumps from
one roof to another a block away (to which Keanu gives his signature line: 
"Whoa!").  He is then trained in hand-to-hand combat, spaceship-piloting and
the use of high-calibre automatic firearms.
     This seems to provide the film with its strong suit:  Dazzling stunts
and special effects.  However, I found the story to be just a little too
pretentious.  I realize that there is a lot of symbolism within the story
(most of it cribbed from the New Testament), but, while watching the movie
and getting the messages of the movie, I half expected to see signposts
appear saying CAUTION! METAPHORS AHEAD!  I did get a kick, however, out of
the street intersections mentioned in the film where all of the "exits"
were:  They are actually streets in Chicago, the Wachowski brothers' (and
my) hometown.  As I said before, the special effects and stuntwork are
fabulous.  In fact, I thought the film should have received Oscar
nominations for its Art Direction and Costumes.  Beyond that, I thought THE
MATRIX was nothing more than the longest, most expensive GAP commercial ever
made.  For a better handling of this type of material, I suggest two films
that could be combined to make a better MATRIX:  THE LAST DRAGON (for it's
metaphysical message and martial arts action) and DARK CITY (for it's
handling of a scary fantasy city under siege).
     Okay, let the brickbats and/or bouquets fly . . .
!

******
20 July 2000
6

OK, so the special effects were really good, and the gun battle scenes
were
cool. But as for the story line, it was a good concept, but in my opinion
they failed to make it even half as good as they could have...I was rather
disappointed after all the hype. I'm glad I saw it at a friend's on DVD
instead of paying for it at the theater

******
7 July 2000
10

I thought The Matrix was an excellent movie it was the best movie of 1999.
It had a lot of action and superb special effects, good acting, and a great
script. The top critics of the U.S. all liked the matrix, and it also won 4
Oscars but they were all for technical categories, in my opinion I think it
should have been nominated for best picture.

******
19 June 2000
10

In Keanu Reeve's best film to date (Not counting the fact he may star in
both sequels!), The Matrix is a visual delight in it's revolutionary camera
techniques, and a mind trip in it's thought provoking story line.  Are we a
part of the matrix, a complex computer system, designed to make the human
race believe they're living their own lives, when in fact, they're used as
the common Duracell battery for a race of artificial intelligence machines?
Let Neo, the one chosen to free the human race from the machines, take to
you to places your mind can't even imagine.  An EXCELLENT example of sci-fi
at it's best!

******
17 June 2000
10

Simply the best film ever for special effects, original story line, great
acting and suspense. I really can't say any more but watch and enjoy. I
can't wait for the next two films to be released, I'll be queueing for the
cinema tickets !

******
15 June 2000
10

It seems that the Matrix is uneasy about independent thinking.
I look at the Matrix as uncle sam looks at the people of the U.S. The
population is considered useful to the machine as long as it can produce
power ( work )for the system. After, if re-election was not a problem we
to
would be discarded and used for fertilizer to help feed the productive
people that blindly work for the machine.
If you really want to put some thought into this movie, compare the Matrix
with the U.S. Government.

******
9 May 2000
5

What is The Matrix? How could this computer generated machine rule our mind?
How could this happen? The answers to these who-cares type questions are in
the modern sci-fi thriller "The Matrix." Do you know what The Matrix really
is? It is a very boring science fiction film about a man's battle in a
computer generated world. It is also a movie with some very bad acting that
all stars with the king of bad acting- Keanu Reeves. Whoa! I forgot
something else. It is also 7 dollars drown the drain if you check this one
out in the theatre. I do have to admit that the special effects were
spectacular. They are worth the price of admission ( maybe half-price) .
Even though I loved the effects, I am going to have log off to "The
Matrix."
*** Average


******
20 April 2000
6

The Matrix is the typical hyperactive action movie that once you look past
its flash there is not too much substance.  With a really good movie of
this
type, the questions will not arise until after you've been on the
rollercoaster ride.  However, the Matrix doesn't live up to that standard,
which is why it deserves only a 6.Some questions I had while watching the Matrix:
1.  Why do the machines need humans as a source of energy?  Fossil,
nuclear,
thermal even cows, wouldn't be better source?
2.  If the entire Matrix is computer generated by the machines, why do they
run around shooting bullets instead of just bending the situation to their
needs?
3.  How are the "warriors" fueling/repairing their ship?
4.  What sort of power has made Neo the One?  God? The
Force?Overall, the typical one man fight against "them" and all the evil "they"
personify yet in no way exploring what the alternative is once everyone is
freed from their pod.  I would guess The One enslaves them all and has them
erect a temple to his glory.  I'd rather stay in my pod.


******
17 April 2000
6

Don't try to fool me that I didn't understand it, cause I
did.And I must say, even though I wasn't at all confused by the script and
plot
as so many others seem to be, I don't think its a bad movie. But h**l, its
not THAT good!I mean come on! I used to had no problems with this movie the first time I
saw it, but I have learned to hate it, since its so EXTREMELY overrated
(just having it 29 on the best movies ever is a proof).THE MATRIX is although trying really hard, but I can't even seem to be
impressed by one single actionscene. In my opinion. Go see FACE/OFF or
some
other John Woo-movie to be stunned by action (it won't happen a lot). And
it
starts up with being (er, sorry trying to be) a smart sci-fi-movie, but
suddenly Morpheus gets kidnapped by a team of wooden-acting-agents and it
ends up like ANY OTHER bye-bye-brain actionmovie! Am I wrong? Climbing on
walls, bounching off bullets, oohh... Give me a break! To be clear, I'd
say
like this: ''After 25 minutes we know what the matrix is, the rest of the
movie is a long hyped up, action-standard, with a lot of glamour. Ehh...
intelligent? NOT!I'm still confused how this movie got to be such a hit (yeah, go ahead
mindless matrix-fans, laugh it all off), because the entire movie is old
stuff, in a new package. The acting, with the exception of Laurence
Fishbourne and perhaps little Joe too, is awful. Keanu seems tired and his
entire face shines with that ''I should have listened to my mommy, and
become a lawyer''-face. The rest of the cast is on the edge of average,
many
below.Oh, yeah, lets not forget all the martial arts. Eehh... is it only me, or
are the guys who thought they were spectacular just unwilling to watch
some
old good Bruce Lee-films.Also, I would like to point out that this movie was NOT ORIGINAL! The main
plot has been used many times before. If anyone can find something out of
the ordernal, please give me a mail. Didn't think so.And has anyone of these matrix-lovers ever seen 2001? THAT'S an sci-fi
movie! With effects that lives on still today! Why don't you guys check
out
THE MATRIX after about 33 years, it will probably be so boring that it
won't
be watchable, and people will wonder: How the h**l did this win 4 academy
awards?Just thinking about Matrix 2, and 3 makes my blood chill. I guess my
mailbox
will be filled with criticism, after this, but I know how to respond,
trust
me...But, it still is an entertaining and fun movie, that I will never watch
again in my life! My rating is 6/10 but I still hate it.


******
10 April 2000
9

I am sorry to add such sadness to the comments but this movie is much more
the running on walls and shoot-out scenes.  This movie is revolutionary not
for its ground breaking effects but mostly for its principal. It says to the
world that what we are doing and the way we live is WRONG, or at least it
could be.  It does say that living as drones and following the system makes
you nothing but a battery to those in power. I get upset to read your
reviews that only discuss acting, cinematography and how cute Mr. Reeves is.
Didn't this movie make you think. This wasn't like Con-Air that was just
about blowing things up and causing havoc and then saving the day at the end
of the film. This movie was brilliant because the thoughts it provoked, its
fluid story, and constant questioning of what we've been taught. I give it a
nine and say to those who haven't seen it please do so but look further than
the million dollar shots and even more costly actors and look for the
meaning within.    

******
20 March 2000
5

Superlative special effects, non-stop action, but no real plot, a total
disregard for scientific realities, and lots of simplistic "philosophy."
Great eye candy and no substance combine to give an average film overall.
A
good movie to see when you just want to be entertained, without having to
think too deeply.  

******
23 January 2000
6

So,goodfellas,You really think "The Matrix" rules? Don't try
to
impress me.Because there's the one and only martial art which always
wins:AIKIDO.I'm sure "karate" showed us in the movie
is the hardest way to protect "Neo" and his "Trinity".Why did they spend a
lot of money trying to make fight scenes more natural?..they still look
unreal!And even a 12-years boy feels
fake in this "greatest(?)" movie.The Wachowski Bros should
ask
Steven Seagal to help...Because you should not bend - you should dodge the
bullets.And you shouldn't make thousands of kicks - you just can turn,step
in and break his hand.
According to this I gave 6 of 10.Guys,If you're gonna make
a
sequel,be smarter! 

******
27 December 1999
6

The Matrix is a pretty good film, but if one is introduced to it with high
expectations, such as an IMDb ranking of 35th best all time might cause, it
can be pretty disappointing.  Sure, the movie has excellent special effects,
perhaps even second to none.  It is also good as thrillers go, though I
reserve "best" for thrillers that rely on guns a little less and make me
cheer on the hero a little more (e.g. The Fugitive).  But the acting is
varied, ranging from Fishburne (great) to Keanu (good) to Weaving
(frequently annoying).  The story is inconsistent, as Messiah parallels give
way to new video game setups. I vote 6 of 10.

******
26 December 1999
5

The Matrix combines an incoherent script with intoxication with special
effects.  A large chunk of the film is a stretched out denouement in which
all the characters, goodies and baddies, are equally invulnerable.
Buildings are blown up, walls shattered and general mayhem occurs, but no
main character is injured beyond biting their lips, and no motivation for
any part of the action is even hinted at.  A Road Runner cartoon has been
reissued with some live actors, and possibly some robots.There is one laugh in the film, when Fishburne, after putting Reeves
through
substantial torture and fastening him down in what looks like a dentist's
chair says ''Just try to relax''.

******
13 December 1999
5

I thought that The Matrix was one of the better action movies I have ever
seen.  However, the depth that so many other people see, I do not.  It
seems
like the directors read some philosophy of knowledge, found enough of an
idea to make a movie, and then quit.  The philosophy of this movie misses
the entrie point of epistemology, which doesn't ask if we are in the true
reality, but more what is reality, how do we interact with it, and how do
we
have knowledge of it.
As far as acting, Fishburne was good, as was Weaving, but it seemed that
Reeves and Moss were there so they could be seen in tight
leather.
The special effects are very well done, and I loved the training
sessions.
The directors do a good job of building the action and the
suspence.
Overall a good action movie, but little more.

******
26 November 1999
10

If you're anything like me, the main draw of this movie was the special
effects.  There are certain movies you go to to see action, some drama, some
horror, but this one was a special effects one for me.  The first half-hour
of the movie filled me to the brim with all the S/FX I needed.Surprisingly, when the plot is exposed, the movie becomes more than just a
sci-fi flick with plenty of black leather.  It's plot draws you in, and soon
you forget you came to the theater to see Reeves running up walls.

******
25 November 1999
10

The Matrix was over the top with it's original story line, and incredible
effects.  The producers did an outstanding job casting for the movie.  It
is
a must see for anyone who enjoys action, science fiction, comics, etc.
This
one is a must for a DVD collection!

******
24 November 1999
8

The Matrix is an incredible package. It will forever be remembered for its
pioneering effects, which are simply breathtaking. The first expanded use of
"bullet time" creates visually stunning scenes where time and motion seem to
compromise reality. The action and fight sequences are reminiscent of
Chinese action films, using many of the same wiring techniques.The story, while somewhat far-fetched, is quite original and enthralling.
Everything we know is not true, everything we see is not real - a very
interesting concept. Watching Neo mature into the "savior" is very gripping.
It lacks some aspects of character development and the relationship between
Neo and Trinity is not well defined and somewhat abrupt. While not a
"Casablanca" story, it must be lauded for its originality and the Wachowski
brothers did a wonderful job with the story. They also hit the
jackpot.No matter what happens, this film will be remembered for its effects, for
they are brilliant. The fashion and wardrobe is also very unique and
fitting, particularly the sunglasses. Hugo Weaving as the villianous Agent
Smith is one of the best characters in the film and the groundwork is laid
down for what will prove to be an intriguing trilogy. I give the film an 8 out of 10, based on dazzling camerawork and computer
effects.

******
24 November 1999
10

Yes, I am sincere... This movie is the beginning of the 21st century for me.
No other action or sci-fi movie has done to me what "The Matrix" did. It
completely stunned me for its sheer power and inventiveness as the story
unveiled itself. Actually it's more talky than I expected it to be but in
this very rare occasion this is not worsening the movie but is completely
necessary to at least basically understanding the plot idea. What surprised
me the most is that despite of these amazing fx featured throughout this
movie, it has considerable depth and does not rely too much on them. The
story actually is underlined rather than undermined by
them.
Especially great was Larry Fishburne as Morpheus, one of the coolest guys
I've ever seen on screen. 
This is the first time I'm looking forward to a sequel.

******
6 November 1999
6

So there I was, sitting in the theater, waiting to watch a movie I hoped
would prove to be A) a great cyberpunk-movie (I love cyberpunk) B) one
hellova actionmovie and C) a hollywood movie that has a plot.
(Shock!)Did they succeed?To say the least: No.I am never impressed with BIG special FX's - seen all the latest in MTV,
anyway. And I've seen some of John Woos actionmovies when he was in Hong
Kong along with other HK-masters, so I've grown some appetite for 'larger
cakes', if you know what I mean. ;)So what went wrong? There are various reasons that can be read from the
various postings who agree with me, but one is the stunts, fights or
anything between that. They did not feel real. And that's the problem with
this movie! It did not feel real, because when for example, you see when
Trinity runs along the walls, you go "she's wired".I like my actionmovies with the sense that you can actually relate those
outrageous stunts in the real world. But since it did not feature in a Real
World - well, most of the time, anyway - you felt as if you were watching
someone playing a computergame for you. And that, my friends, is
boring.Oh yeah, almost forgot: the speed of the action. They used FAR too much
slo-mo, which showed especially in the infamous lobby-scene. Flying debris
in slo-mo. While at first glance you go 'Wow', it becomes quickly
redundant.
Think about it: Keanu Reeves reaches his guns in slo-mo. And he shoots in
slo-mo. And bullets go klinka-klink in slo-mo. Boooring. Too much trying to
be 'cool' instead of brutal fast-paced action - that's what I like.
:)And don't get me started about that thing they dare to call a 'plot'! The
'plot' is full of clichés, a mediocre dialogue and obvious plotholes. It
did
feel promising at first, but later I became aware of the faults the plot
has
- not to mention the godawful closecall that shot a bullet thru this
movie's
head in the end!To say the least, I wasn't impressed with this movie - but I'm not saying
it was so bad it shouldn't be watched no matter what! It does have it's
strengths - the effects (for what it's worth) and .. er.. that was it.
:)All-in-all: if you want to watch a real movie
 I'd say they would be far superior to this one, even
with the lack of special effects. Who needs them, anyway?


******
19 October 1999
6

Clearly, some people disagree with me, but while this movie was certainly
entertaining, I didn't think it was great.  It had it's moments, but all in
all, I've seen better movies.  The one thing all my friends kept telling me: "The Matrix has a great plot"
I think it's a sign of the kind of brainless movies being released this days
that when any movie with a sniffing of a plot comes out, people
automatically take it for the next "Godfather".  The same thing happened
with "The Sixth Sense".  The plot here is passable, but far from
excellent.There are two parts of this movie that were really excellent.  Once is the
mind-bending special effects, which were extremely well-done.  The other is
Laurence Fishburne, who is at his best as "Morpheus", the leader of this
rag-tag group.  Keanu Reeves does  his best no to overact the part, but it's
really Fishburne that stand out.Would I recommend it?  Sure.  Is it the greatest thing I've ever seen?  Not
by a long, long shot.

******
19 October 1999
10

Possibly others have written this before, but I was swamped in all those
recent comments!I think the Matrix is not only great for the action scenes,
the mise en scene, SFX, stunts, art direction, cinematography,
manga style direction, soundtrack, plot, sense of wonder,
style,
and yes, even Keanu's acting and the tongue in cheek humour about his
proverbial airheadedness ("your other left!"), but
also for the philosophical side behind it.Even if we do not consider seriously in a literal way that we are ruled by
machines, and kept happy with a computer image of the world, we should
consider that maybe in fact... we ARE kind of batteries in our economy and
social structure. Morpheus tells Neo: "you see the Matrix when you go to
work, when you go to church, when you watch TV...". In all the examples he
mentions, we are part of a system, with its own values and needs - and we
are not free. At least, not as long as we do not see it is a system that
uses us to perpetuate itself.
Think on it.So... enjoy the movie if you didn't, and enjoy it again if you
did!By the Way - watch agent Smith very closely... what is it that he really
wants? I only saw it after a second viewing in the theatre, and then I was
used to the whole concept of the film...
Watch him. If I'm right it has a lot of implications for parts two and
three.And another one to think about, at that... why is the Oracle IN the Matrix,
and not outside?

******
18 October 1999
10

Wow.  This movie completely blew me away.  It was nothing of what I expected
it to be at all.  This movie took on a whole different angle than what I
supposed, and I never took it seriously.  The visuals are the best I have
ever seen.  The plot is so visually stunning, and so engrossing, it is hard
not to like this movie.  I love it.  The best action movie I have seen in a
long time that actually has a plot that sticks.  The whole machines take
over the word thing has been done before (The Terminator), but not in such
fashion.  The "Matrix" is a great push which I found very creative.  The
acting is top notch in my opinion, not once did I not feel someone giving it
their all.  Great detail and Agent Smith makes one very good villain.  The
fight scenes were pulled off with a fashion.  Man, this movie was so great! 
I can't wait to watch it on DVD.  Flat out 10.     

******
8 October 1999
10

It's the best. Period. Words cannot describe the quality of this movie.
See
it for yourself. I haven't heard of one person that hasn't liked it. The
effects are incredible and near-photorealistic. The plot is thick,
inspiring, and gets better the more times you see it. The action is the
best
I've seen. More guns and kicks then you'll ever see in this rare
plot-and-action movie.

******
7 October 1999
10

I had the pleasure of seeing the matrix in the movie theatre with good
sound
and the big screen.  Awesome movie. Although the movie is pretty long,
about
2hrs and 15mins, it's well worth it.  The special effects is top notch and
the plot makes one think and can mess with your head if you let it.
Carrie-Anne Moss is awesome as the tough and sexy Trinity who always seems
to be wearing tight leather outfits, which is fine by me.  Her opening
scene
in the movie is definitely an attention getter.  Laurence Fishbourne also
does an awesome job as the ever wise morpheus. I enjoyed every scene with
him in it.  The kung fu action is smooth, especially when it's blended
with
cool aerial stuff and special effects.  All in All, definitely a must see
movie.


******
7 October 1999
10

This is without doubt one of the best movies of its kind...While
punctiliously searching for glitches in the stories mainframe i found
none...If any...the fact that Keanu Reeves played in it may have created a
virus in its programming...but not even his sub par acting attributes
could
adversely infect the superior writing...plot
manipulation...direction...special
effects...and least of all the action sequences...WHEW...that thang was
hot...Big up to the Wachowski Brothers...Talented for no reason and with
no
bounds...this is what i like to see...i think this movie is gonna raise
the
stakes a bit...i think it already has... 

******
7 October 1999
10

One of the principle complaints against this film is that none of its
actors
can... act.  While I will not argue Keanu's case, I must say that
Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, Joe Pantoliano and Laurence Fishburne, as
well as the rest of the supporting cast, give finer performances than I've
seen on the silver screen in months or years.This movie, unlike most of what we've been offered by the studios for the
past decade, actually has a plot.  What's more, this plot is ORIGINAL.
That
is reason in and of itself to see the film.  Add to that stunning special
effects (so seamless you hardly notice that what you're seeing isn't
real),
the aforementioned performances of the actors, creative scriptwriting and
work-of-art cinematography, and you've got an easy candidate for Best Film
of 1999.There was a reason that this movie took in over $33 million in the first
weekend.  It is incredible.  Unfortunately, no one can accurately describe
the film in words--you have to see it for yourself.

******
6 October 1999
10

This is the best Sci-fi/action movie I've ever seen. For the first it has a
lot of special effects that are exciting to watch. The second thing I think
of is the story. Sometimes it seems to be week but after a moment of
thinking it may not. Interesting and intriguing plot! A third thing is the
shooting of the movie. Usual frontal pictures are mixed with pictures from
above and below and all together with the special effects stimulates the
brain in a pleasant way. If you like Sci-fi and action you have to see this
movie.

******
4 October 1999
6

I saw the Matrix in the theatre and was so bored that I fell asleep for 10
minutes! So, just to be sure that I hadn't missed something significant, I
watched it again on DVD last night.I should have slept through it again.Sure, the special effects are out of this world, the mythology is
interesting, and the production values are superb. But the characters are
cardboard, the plot has thousands of holes, the dialogue is horrible, and
the casting director really needed to get a clue about casting; Keanu
Reeves?!? Come on! Didn't Johnny Moronic (excuse me, MNEMONIC) prove that
Keanu just doesn't fit into these cyberpunk leading roles?!?Anyway, I can not in good conscience recommend this "film" to anyone. It's
not a movie; it's a showcase of special effects.

******
29 September 1999
5

As much as I would like to say The Matrix is movie that I can suggest to
all
of you, I can't. Now, if you are only into special effect and action
sequences that defy all laws of gravity, then disregard everything I am
about to say. On the other hand, if you are interested in an good all
around
film, keep looking. This film wishes it was half as good as the extremely
underrated Dark City. This film wishes it were deep, hence all of the not
too subtle reference to Alice in Wonderland. This film wishes it had
clever
writers who did not come off as stealing every mediocre idea from much
better sci-fi flicks. Finally, (and most of all) this film wishes that
Keanu
Reeves could act his way out of a paper bag. Unfortunately, none of these
wishes came true and The Matrix is a third-rate sci-fi film with
extra-ordinary special effects. It just goes to show that style can not
substitute for substance.

******
27 September 1999
5

I had high hopes for this movie, being a huge fan of the "what if none of
this is real?" genre, but I was disappointed.  The film does have a few
things going for it - let me cover those first, since that won't take long. 
The visuals are beautiful and stunning - whoever shot this movie is indeed
an artist.  I can't remember a film that was this fascinating just to look
at.  The film also has a creative and intriguing premise (which I can't
mention, or it would spoil it).  Keanu Reeves, who is a horrible actor, is
actually more tolerable in this flick than he has been in most of his others
- mostly due to the fact that the role requires almost no acting.  Keanu
does look good in the film, and Carrie-Ann Moss looks fantastic in tight PVC
pants!  That's it for the good, now for the bad: the story has holes in it
the size of Texas.  Is it really so hard to write a story that makes sense,
that is tightly crafted?  Total Recall and The Terminator come to mind as
examples of tightly written sci-fi films.  I can't go into the details of
the many, many things that just don't make sense since it would spoil it for
those who haven't seen it.  Did the writers not understand virtual reality
at all, or did they just assume the audience was too ignorant to notice the
absurdities and non-sensical aspects of their virtual world?  Seems like the
makers of The Matrix just got lazy.  They had a great premise and Keanu
Reeves, so they just threw in some extended slo-mo gunfights, kung-fu
battles, lots of big explosions, a pounding soundtrack, and called it a day
- very crass.  About those slo-mo gunfights, kung-fu battles, big
explosions, and pounding soundtrack - they came across as very contrived -
obviously hacked onto the story to make it an "action" movie.  How obviously
formulaic!  I can just hear the producer saying "We have a pretty good story
here, but we want to make it an 'action' movie, so stick in these
elements...".  This film had serious potential, but ended up as merely
mediocre - what a shame.  5 out of 10.

******
26 September 1999
5

What is the Matrix?"The Matrix" is a movie that is not a movie. It is a special effect and an
action showcase extravaganza of splintered, all-be-it cool, scenes of
martial arts, chases and digital effects. In short, it's a roller coaster.
All I truly needed to make this movie a ride was a hydraulic roller coaster
simulator in my couch.Unfortunately as a movie, "The Matrix" falls apart. The script is plagued by
cheesy one-liners ("Kansas is going bye-bye"? Puh-leeze!), plot
discontinuity (such as why didn't the bad guys use powers they use later in
the film at the very beginning of the movie which easily could have caught
Trinity? The plot has quite a few big holes, but no plot spoilers here...)
and a severe lack of characterization (as in, non-existent). The actors are
miscast, especially the villains, who while look the part, deliver lines as
if they were constipated monkeys. The directing, besides having the actors
refrain from doing any acting, is basically sound, although they over did it
on the slow motion a bit. The plot is supposed to be centered on Neo, a
hacker trying to find out what is dream and what is reality. However, the
character doesn't even practically exist. We have no back-story on him and
no reason for his exploits except for the shallow explanation that he "feels
something that's not right with the world." Except in the movie, Neo doesn't
appear to feel anything. He seems nothing like the insomniac hacker risking
all to search for the meaning of life that he's supposed to
be.The sad part of it all is this thrill ride had so much potential as a movie.
The ideas behind its premise are well thought out, and had the Wachowski
bros. bothered taken the time, "The Matrix" could have pushed the bounds
between fantasy and reality, man and machine, future and past. Instead, with
its poorly written script, miscast actors who ruin any dialogue that
actually had potential, and complete lack of characterization, this movie is
good only for its special effects.

******
22 September 1999
10

Is it just me or does this movie seem to have the plot of some old video
games? Don't get me wrong this movie was GREAT! But when I was watching it
I
thought wow this is like sewer sharks meet shadow runner. The movie was
great and more writes should be given a chance because there are great
minds
out there.

******
15 September 1999
5

I've seen the rate of this movie and I can't believe it... Are you crazy?
This movie must be the most overrated of IMDB with difference. If I had to
say anything about it is one word: unbelievable. The plot is superficial and
the pseudo-deep-philosophy all of you are talking about is bad builded (have
you any idea of the electric potential of human neurones? My God! What a
poor energy source for the Matrix!). All of you thinking that an Sci-Fic
movie doesn't need logical don't know nothing about GOOD
Sci-Fic.I admit that the first part of the movie is decent: while Neo still ignores
all about the Matrix there is an enigmatic atmosphere that gives suspense to
the film. But the second part is boring and stupid. Just a lot of
shot-sounds to turn everybody deaf. The fighting scenes made laugh all the
theatre (suspension of disbelief? Ja! ) and when Carrie Ann Moss says she
just needs a lesson to pilot the helicopter was ridiculous. However, I think
Moss was the better of the cast. I've found Keanu too cold and Fishburne was
as his character's name: Morpheus, that is, made me want to sleep. And the
Oracle! Who casted that horrible actress?The only good of the film was the a-la William Gibson cyber-style of
costumes and the FX. Of course, nothing to be in the 26th place of top250.
This film should *NOT* be neither in the top250 nor in the
top500.And how can you compare this with Philip K. Dick's Blade Runner???? Are you
joking, KIDS?I give it a 5 of 10 out and only for the FX.


******
5 September 1999
10

This film was about to finish its runI went to see it at midnight thinking I might fall asleep, wrong .What an
incredible film ,not since Bladerunner has a film had such an
impact.Apparently it's available in 2 weeks on region1 DVDI'm going to buy a machine and the DVD to play it onWOW


******
3 September 1999
9
Cinematography, story and the directing of the film are good, but this
hardly matches John Woo's "Bullet In the Head" in action or Blade Runner in
it's profoundness. 
I found many ideas quite brilliant though the story seemed lacking in some
aspects: the resurrecting kiss, the idea of the messiah (so worn out, be it
a ubiquitous Jungian collective symbol), I actually found no rationale for
the Matrix to perpetuate the human existence at all. Why should Matrix keep
these humans living at all in the context of the story. Does it need guinea
pigs to experiment on for some untold reason ? As a metaphor this story
reminds of a group of "Marxist" rebels who have seen through the web of
superficial lies and seen the light. They have broken out of the
conventional dogma and seen the true face of surrounding society and it's
pains, and pleasures.

******
3 September 1999
9

In Matrix you can find anything from biblical element (the chosen one),
fairy-tails (the kiss of life) and computer crime ... Very postmodern, but
it worked very well for me. It helps if you like Keanu Reeves. It doesn't
help if you hate the theatrical way of his speaking (and everybody
else's).

******
2 September 1999
10

"Why is it 26th and not 1st?" is a question I would like to ask. I think
that The matrix is the best movie I have ever seen combining Sci-fi, action,
drama and thriller.
I liked the idea of computers taking over the world 'cause it's basically
what is happening. The special effects and cinematography was excellent and,
I think that , that is what  made The Matrix so special.

******
1 September 1999
10

Special effects technology continues to evolve and this movie is a
tour-de-force of seamlessly computer-manipulated imagery. To find such
stunning visual work combined with an intelligent, challenging storyline,
and intricately choreographed action sequences (including martial arts
worthy of the finest of that genre) is a rare treat. Keanu is at his best
since Speed, supported ably by noteworthy performances from Fishburne, Moss
and Hugo Weaving as Reeves' enigmatic nemesis. See it on a big screen with a
top-notch sound system, this movie deserves it.
Unreservedly recommended. 10/10

******
23 August 1999
5

The first half of THE MATRIX is pretty darn good.  After a bizarre and
surreal action sequence where the black-clad Trinity (Carrie-Ann Moss)
displays superhuman abilities in eluding some Men In Black who also have
superhuman abilities, we meet the plot.  He is called Neo (Keanu Reeves),
who finds himself being contacted by two seemingly omniscient characters:
the aforementioned Trinity and a man called Morpheus whom we at first know
only by his voice.  They try, not always successfully, to guide Neo out of
the danger posed by the Men In Black (who we learn are called Agents, but
Men In Black gives you a better idea of what they look
like).The movie to this point is great fun, with a palpable aura of mystery making
your pulse pound as you wonder what the explanation is for what's happening
to Neo.  Better yet, the explanation we get from Morpheus is actually
moderately imaginative and makes at least some sense (although one wonders
how humans can live without a solar-based food chain beneath them; I can't
explain more without giving too much away).Unfortunately, at this point, THE MATRIX is only halfway done.  The second
half is a nonstop pastiche of action cliches and mystical mumbo-jumbo, as
Neo, supposedly the most important person in the world for Morpheus to find,
actually achieves very little other than to become your routine Hollywood
superhero and pull off a depressingly prosaic rescue mission.  Characters
come back from the dead literally by magic, or with no explanation at all. 
The action sequences are competently done, with an eerie musical backdrop
sounded out by cartridge cases clinking against the floor, but they can't
disguise the essential problem: THE MATRIX runs out of plot an hour before
it ends.Keanu Reeves is not improving with age; the way he expresses disbelief will
have you expressing your own disbelief, and there is no chemistry between
him and the attractive Moss.  Laurence Fishburne's character is poorly
sketched, leaving him nothing to do except be very, very cool, but he does
that very well.  Moss does her action scenes with verve, but delivers her
dialogue weakly.  Hugo Weaving, playing one of the Men In Black, is
sinister, inhuman, and a lot of fun to watch.  A number of supporting
characters who assist Trinity and Morpheus are well played.Regrettably, THE MATRIX is yet another case of Hollywood putting excellent
production values into creating a half-baked story.  The same themes were
much better examined just last year, in THE TRUMAN SHOW and DARK CITY.  And
by no means does this film deserve comparison to BLADE RUNNER, whose plot
dealt with the line between man and machine in a way that this movie never
approaches.  THE MATRIX is mildly entertaining, but still greatly
overrated.Rating: ** out of ****.

******
28 July 1999
6

The Matrix shows us a set of nice effects. That's all, I'm afraid. When I
walked out of the cinema I had already forgotten almost everything I had
seen in the film.To me The Matrix is just a lot of graphic computer effects with a bunch of
noise. In too many scenes, the actors don't act: they just show manners or
an attitude!


******
27 July 1999
6

A film with a very thin story but it is quite ok. Much because of the many,
many great stunt and effects. If want to see this film, go to a cinema and
avoid seeing it on video.

******
15 July 1999
10

Granted, I am predisposed towards the genre but, having said that, I like
to
say that this movie is currently my all time favorite. It excelled in
atmosphere, due to superior storyline, special effects and one of the best
sound tracks I have ever heard.

******
15 July 1999
10

This movie was one of the greatest movies I have ever seen.
The Wachowski Brothers are gods of filmaking. The Cinematography, Costume
Design, and Set Design are worthy of Oscars

******
14 July 1999
10

One of those films that you just have to see again straight away, (or as
soon as is possible).  What can you say about this films impact on the
Leather market and what it has done for Erricson phones?  The soundtrack,
remarkable.  Laurence Fishburne, astounding.  Carrie-Anne Moss,  sex on a
stick and Keanu?.....Well he just looked down right cool!Brilliant film from the brothers Wachowski to go along with the brilliant
"Bound".  Definitely a film for our generation!

******
14 July 1999
10

The Matrix is quite amazing. Great plot, great action,
great direction, great characters - and I really liked
the actors & perfomances, too. Perhaps my all time favourite.
The best action/sci-fi movie of the decade (beats the crap out of
Phantom Menace). I had high hopes and wasn't disappointed.

******
14 July 1999
10

this movie is terrific! I guess it will become one of the biggest cult
sci-fi movies ever made. The computer effects have been used very
wisely...
Although there were no "new" ideas in the film, it has a wide variety of
used goodies - fine martial arts, astounding digital effects and a very
cool
Keanu Reeves.
Great stuff...

******
13 July 1999
10

I must confess that I had the highest expectations for this movie and I
walked into the theater with this in mind. The movie exceeded everything I
had expected!!!
After the first escape/running scene I was already addicted to the
fast-paced, incredibly realistic effects that were being hurled at me and
longed to be bombarded with much more.
Again I was not disappointed...Torn between this effects galore and trying
to mildly comprehend the complex plot of this movie, I was glued to my
seat
motionless for over two hours.
As one famous character once said *That was definitely a 9.5 on my
weird-s**t-o-meter!*
I did something I usually try to avoid, I gave the movie a 10. I would
probably have to watch it 20 more times to actually find a glitch big
enough
to scratch at that vote!
Aside from the effects, the choice of characters for the movie was
uniquely
brilliant! Reeves and Fishburne are brilliant in both acting and dressing
(special note to the clip-on sunglasses) and adapt fantastically to the
speed with which the plot evolves. Weaving as the infamous agent Smith who
lurkes around every corner gives the *bad guys* a very unique and humourus
touch. His slow articulated form of speaking streches the suspense in a
very
unique way and makes the viewer want to shove a boot down his throat every
time he opens his mouth!
Enough said. If you have not seen the movie yet for whatever reason, watch
it!!! If you have seen it and are convinced you have the whole thing down
cold, watch it again, because I assure you there is more to be
experienced!!!!

******
12 July 1999
6

This movie was by no means perfect.  The plot was not spectacular and the
acting was by no means top-notch.  It is nothing like "Dark City," the
best
movie made in the 90s (in my opinion at least) which has, as Roger Ebert
says, "no bad scenes."  Howard Hawks, the famous director who did Rio
Bravo
among other classics, once said when asked what makes a good film, "3 good
scenes and no bad scenes."  "Dark City" is a film which accomplishes this,
there are no scenes which do not advance the plot, and yet we still see
some
incredible effects.Anyhow, back to "The Matrix."  There are plenty of scenes that are not
necessary, one example being the fight scene at the metal detectors near
the
end of the film, but you know what, I don't care.  This movie was visually
incredible.  I was not excited and pumped up after seeing it, I was tired,
and not because it was a boring film.  It is simply that the film wears
out
one's eyes, there is so much movement, so much eye-candy, and so much
brightness.  This movie won't win an Oscar, at least not the big ones, and
it shouldn't.  But it is still an extremely enjoyable and entertaining
film
and except for the cheesy love part at the end, could not have been done
much better.The brothers who directed "The Matrix" succeeded in creating a film that
is
what it tries to be: a visually stunning action film.

******
11 July 1999
5

I've always loved science fiction and I'm always been able to forget the
little scientific violations. But I hate when someone pretends to make me
forget about logic.The Matrix is just an impossible concept. You can forget the technology
involved, you can think (as you do in Star Wars, for example) that the
science has evolved enough. But you can't accept when they try to say that
A
and NOT A are true at the same time. You can't have millions of people
(with
different ages) living in the same unreal world if it doesn't evolve, if
it's always at the end of the 20th century. You can do it by making a
special Matrix for every human being (destroying the plot) or making the
humans forget every 10 years (destroying the plot).Good special effects. It's the best I can say about this movie. It's not
too
much.

******
6 July 1999
5

This movie has the best visual effects ever seen to date, better than
Episode 1's effects. The only problem is though, this movie really is
bad.Every one has been walking around saying, that this movie is the best
ever,
because it has awesome fight scenes, awesome slow mo and awesome visual
effects.They never say the acting is fantastic, they never say the direction is
good, and no one ever talks about the screenplay, because it's all so
dodgy.I have to hand it to the Wachowski brothers and the special visual
effects
team, for coming up with the idea of bullet time photography, it looks
spectacular.DO waste two hours and fifteen minutes of your life to see five different
bullet time photography shots. Don't expect too much from the
acting.

******
25 June 1999
7

I expected to see a very special film, ranked #20 at the
IMDb Top 250. I thought I'd have something like a stunning
experience...
but I was wrong. What they didn't tell me is that The Matrix
is just a manga film aimed to the young public. Perhaps
10-15
years ago (when I was 15-20
years old) I would have enjoyed these almost two hours and
twenty
minutes of audiovisual events, but now it's not the case.
Many people have discovered what they thought to be a new
idea in cinema. Well... unfortunately, it's not new. And
the way the story develops itself is out of place for me.
What I mean is that it's not a film
for older people, as it enhances all the elements of
children's play and all those FANCY things young people
like
(the COOL music, the COOL glasses, the COOL walking style, the COOL
guy,
the
hyper-blast finale that reminds me an episode of Mazinger
Z...),
and just assumes everything as the way things have to be.
There
are no adult references, just a show where adolescents'
dreams
come true. Nothing really intellectually moving.Don't let me be misunderstood, it's not a bad film, but
it's
not enough for me, at least to be at the 20th position in
the
list.There are good visual effects, and there is good sound.
I didn't get bored. But it's just another film, not the
one.
Crying Freeman has less effects but is better for me.
7 out of 10.


******
20 June 1999
10

__plot: very interesting and original
__actors: simply the best
__characters: fantastic
__characters' sun glasses: fantastic++
__special effects: in two hours I' ve never closed my eyes


******
20 June 1999
8

The closest thing to Japanese cyberpunk animation you'll see on your
cinema
screen this year. A movie that could almost be labelled "forcefully
entertaining" and definitely a very thought provoking creature. It has
something for every modern sf fan. Digital fuzz and cyberculture are well
in
the mix.The basic ideal of science fiction media is that it should make you think.
This film made me think. In modern moviemaking special effects should be
used when required, but not to a point where they prove distracting. The
effects support this film very well. In fact they are original and at
times
groundbreaking.There are definitely some bad points. No movie is perfect. The acting and
characterization are weak and detached - like Star Trek:Insurrection, but
unlike Insurrection this film has a mind of its own and massages your
brain
cells regularly.Particularly, Fishburne is the biggest culprit of
mediocrity
in this department, someone who tries to be the modern/cyber Buddha but
ends
up lacking any kind of personality or genuine warmth whatsoever. But you
wonder if this is just Fishburne as he is - certainly watching interviews
prior to seeing the film he appears at best "disinterested".Some have said that this movie is confusing. Perhaps these people arent
really confused, maybe they just "dont get it". Maybe they are trying too
hard to "answer" what the film is about. But I dont think this movie is
meant to answer all those little niggling questions, it poses questions
and
leaves you to figure them out. Very much like Chris Carter's The X files
tv
series.Some have said this movie borrows from other movies. What movie doesnt ?
Like much of modern media, nothing is completely original these days,
certainly most of the original sf based movie ideas are long gone. The sf
book market is a prime example of rehash and sequel overkill.Some laugh at the special effects. Particularly the fight sequences. Oh
that's silly ! How can he/she just hang in the air like that ? Why do
those
characters talk like that ? Thats not very realistic ! All I can say is
that
these guys are either completely missing the point or arent really sf
fans.
Firstly this movie is sci-fi not sci-real and secondly follow the story
god-dammit !This film washes over you. It submerges you in its world. Its beats you
into
submission. Its cooler than anything you can possibly imagine. It blows
you
away and before you have recovered asks you the meaning of life. Catch my
drift ? Its a movie with a statement purposely built to be customised into
what *you* want to make it.Its not eye candy because it pokes your mind too often.

******
20 June 1999
10

Excellent film, I haven't seen a Sci fi film this good since T2. Keanu was
great as Noe, he fitted the part well. Hugo weaving was superb as Agent
Smith. As soon as he started talking I knew he was a robot, great acting
all
round. I expect to see lots of cheap ripoffs of its unique special effects
now, which is a shame but it happens.If you havent seen it, go now!

******
19 June 1999
10

the matrix is the most amazing movie i had ever seen in my entire
life
because its not a simple action movie (like the mummy)
it got a complicated story base and a lot of great characters.
keanu reeves is playing his best role yet
and laurence fishborne is the greatest actor in the movie performing great
actor skill he brought with him from the theater.
carrie ane moss is as sexy as ever and hugo weaving is the ultimate bad
guy.
finally i recomended this film very much
just go see it!!!!!!!! 

******
19 June 1999
10

I liked just about everything about this film, it was beautifully paced
and
the plot unfolded in a really graceful manner. the action was good and the
fight scenes excellent.
It is intelligently written and really well made.

******
19 June 1999
10

This is my favorite type of movie: the one where the point of the plot
slowly dawns on you as you watch the movie. (Twelve monkeys is another
example of what I'm talking about.)There is very little that can be said about this movie without ruining
some
of the suspense. As they say in the preview, "No one can tell you what the
matrix is. You have to see it for yourself." All I can add is, it'll be
worth it.A few days ago I wrote a comment on "The Mummy", where I complained that
special effects are not enough to make a good movie. "The Matrix" might as
well have been an answer to my wish. It's got amazing effects, and it has
a
plot that will keep you glued to your chair. Go see it - it's a
must.

******
15 June 1999
10

Having read some of the reviews of this film on the imdb I felt there were
some doubts over its quality but after a few minutes of watching it those
doubts where blown away and I new I was in for a 'trip'.As a piece of science fiction this film can only be described as a work of
genius and proof that when it comes to film writing and directing two
heads,
or two Wachowski brothers, are better than one.What makes this film so good is the mind bending concept in the story of a
universal virtual reality, a very simple but effective idea which is
portrayed to perfection by the smallest detail. The comic book origins of
the sets provided the duo with proven material and they choose well. The
outstanding and ground breaking special effects pushed the film to even
greater highs and they even had the self belief to include marshal arts
style fight scenes that any oriental director would have been proud of.
All
these elements came together to produce one awesome movie. My only
criticism
would be a possible continuity fault with some of the 'damage'
accumulated
by most of the characters.It was a risk to cast Keanu Reeves in a lead role given the public
attitude
to his acting abilities but thankfully those abilities when not over
stretched
as you would expect with this type of film and he has done his career a
favour. The rest of the cast were equally efficient.This film is labelled as science fiction but it is also an orgy of
violence
and destruction given a positive twist with music and fashion, a death in
cyberspace is still a death on-screen. I think it would it have been far
better to have gone the whole hog and included more sex scenes, as was
hinted at in the film. This would have made it an over 18 rating and a
more
rounded piece of work.What is the Matrix.? The Matrix is what we can expect in our theatres for
the next millennium. Cool.


******
13 June 1999
5

In a parallel universe William Gibson knocked this story out in a morning,
read it back and consigned it to oblivion. In the alternate reality that
is
late nineties cinema the story has resurfaced and stretched to over two
hours. You can tick off all the desirable style elements, herds of animals
contributing to the de rigeur black leather, more pistols packed than Lara
Croft with the endless ammo cheat and Keanu Reeves, the most other-worldly
element in the whole competent but workmanlike effort.


******
27 May 1999
9

I really must say this movie surpassed my expectations. Actually  its one
of
those rare movies that I want to watch a second time. First of all: I
thought "Keanu Reeves is featured - oh no he's gonna waste a perfectly
good-sounding plot again", but he didn't manage!This film may not have first class acting, but it has a very interesting
plot. Indeed it would be unfair to compare it with "Blade Runner", because
Keanu Reeves is not Harrison Ford - but enviroment-wise, they both have
this
futuristic ideas about man and machine and how things have developed. The
plot is less subtle than that of Blade Runner, but the special effect are
(of course?) better, quite impressive actually.I would say its a must-see, and I have, with a lot of consideration, given
it a score of 10. Keanu Reeves has risen a few levels, and is actually not
bad, Laurence Fishburne is very good, and I like Carrie-Anne Moss a lot -
nice to see her in a real film.

******
27 May 1999
9

The whole movie was amazing in perspective and special effects.I highly recommend seeing this movie for the special effects 
alone. The ending was kind of nonsensical.

******
26 May 1999
9

If you like science fiction then this film should definitely be on your
top
ten.  I give the movie a 9/10 rating.  The special effects were good (but
not nearly enough of them) and blended extremely well with the
scenes.What I like most about The Matrix: Laurence Fishbourne; Well-thought out
story; Better execution of the story than any movie of its genre ever
attempted.What I like least about the Matrix: Too few action scenes and special
effects;  The premise--I still don't think that it is possible to
virtually
generate "reality" down to the level required.  After all, reality is a
very
individual experience; so you would have to fake it for
everyone.

******
26 May 1999
8

I heard many people saying: I still don't know what the Matrix means.
Well,
I don't think it cares here. The story is, after all in these kind of
films,
subordinate to the special effects and action scenes. And I must
say...they
look incredible here.
This film has got action sequences, where John Woo can be jalous on. The
acting is not very good, Reeves normally is pretty weak, but it doesn't
matter here at all.
Just sit back, and let yourself go. This is one great amusing ride you
just
can't miss.


******
26 May 1999
9

Borrowing a lot from modern-day myths, "The Matrix" gives the audience a
nice experience. From "Alice in Wonderland" to "The Wizard of Oz", going
through "Terminator" & "Dark City", we are cast into a new mythology,
where
hackers are, as have always been, an elite race of humans (at least when
facing computers).A must-see for Sci-Fi/Fantasy fans. Despite the violent scenes, the whole
storyline guides us through a parallel world (just like in "Dr.
Who").Go ahead. See it. Find out "What is The Matrix?". You'll love
it.

******
23 May 1999
10

How many times do you go to a movie nowadays and see a movie that not only
has the monster special effects that we so crave, AND spend the entire
movie
enthralled by the twisting rollercoaster ride of a plot that takes turns
into uncharted reaches of sci-fi moviedom.  I do not believe I have
recently
seen a sci-fi (star wars phantom menace included) that  is so good.  I was
not expecting it to be this good, and I recommend it to anyone who likes
good movies.

******
23 May 1999
10

The movie is just great for people who don't care much about a clear
storyline,and reasonable action,but for the ones who love comic books and
all..is a awesome movie.Great special effects,action scenes,and requires
some brain use to understand about the Matrix :)
For me,specially,I really really loved the Morpheus rescue part..lots and
lots of action..for you all..this is a must see movie.

******
5 May 1999
10

This was a really good movie, altogether I found it very interesting. We
need more high budget, fancy, yet thought provoking movies,like this one.
If
you liked this try to find Dark City, also great.

******
2 May 1999
5

OK, OK, the trailer sold this movie, but to have this monistic babble at
#18
spot of ALL the cinema?!! I give you that Matrix is better than
Arma-hehe-don or Starship Bloopers of last year but to seriously consider
this live action comics, where special effects barely leave time to
dreadful
rendering of cartoon guide to philosophy a bona fide movie is too
much.

******
2 May 1999
9

I won't even try to describe the plot of The Matrix.  Like Laurence
Fishburne says, "You have to see it, to believe it."  What I can say is
that
the film is eye popping.  The effects are mind blowing and the action
sequences are amazing.  Go see The Matix, but watch out for
Agents!

******
30 April 1999
5

Being awed by such superb visual effects
and intriguing story while feeling guilty
and depressed at the atrocious level of 
violence in "The Matrix" made my movie 
going experience fall flat. Unfortunately
barely worth the $8.00 per ticket. I 
give it a 6.

******
26 April 1999
5

When my friend and I entered the theatre, we raised the average age by at
least 20 years. We are over 60, you see.  Of course, the kids loved the
flick. It was loud and violent, yet full of the most advanced special
effects around. As my friend observed, "It was candy for the
senses!"But he liked it better than I did. Albeit, the plot was surreal. (We always
knew that reality was an illusion.) But MATRIX presented details regarding
the cosmos and its ontological implications in a much different manner.
Humans are mere crops being fertilized by machines who have evolved as our
superiors.My friend gives the movie an 8/10 for style, creativity, and sensual
intensity. I looked forward to going home and listening to soft, soothing
music. If MATRIX is candy for the senses, I must be a diabetic. To me the
dark and stark violence was more invasive than satisfying.But, what the hell! That's why we have two thumbs.

******
24 April 1999
5

The plot moves quickly and keeps one's interest, and the special effects are
cool.  Those are the reasons why I voted as high as 5 on this very violent
movie.  I found it disconcerting that lead characters wear black
trenchcoats, sunglasses and combat boots while they indiscriminately kill
innocent people especially in light of the recent shootings at Littleton,
Colorado.  I suppose there may be people who think that human conscience is
not dulled by viewing of this kind of gratuitous murder. As a counselor I
cannot agree, and therefore I cannot recommend this movie.


******
23 April 1999
5

The thing I still don't understand is how so many people like this movie
enough to give it a 10.  The dialogue was corny to the point where I
literally laughed out loud more than once.  The acting was ok, except for
Fishburne which is disappointing because I loved him in his other movies.
Of course, with lines like his, its hard to pull it off without sounding
cheesy.  The concept was great, and the story unfolded with pretty good
execution.  But this is an effects movie pure and simple.  When you're
watching a movie, and you can pinpoint exact scenes stolen from other
movies, there's a problem.  All the action sequences were bit off John Woo
and Mortal Kombat, the love story was ripped from Far and Away, and Neo's
triumph at the end, "My name... is Neo" is from Roots.  GIVE ME A BREAK!!
Is
it not enough to pile on the cheese, but you have to rip other movies off
so
blatantly? I don't recommend this movie at all.   

******
22 April 1999
6

I really liked the storyline. Unfortunately, they could have done a lot more
with it.  I felt like I was looking at a mixture of Jackie Chan and Chow
Yung Fat (Replacement Killers) with a bit of True Lies and Sleeping Beauty
added for good measure.  I don't mind violent movies, but this one was
pushing violence for violence sake.  Special effects were technically good,
but totally un-original (Look at the Replacement Killers for the bullets
bouncing off the floor and True Lies for firing at a building floor from an
airplane (Harrier jet for True Lies, helicopter for the Matrix...same
difference (I preferred the Harrier).  This movie should have a rating
between 6.1 and 6.5 

******
16 April 1999
5

Dark City and The Truman Show were films that caused me to rethink my view
of the world.  The Matrix attempted to copy the themes expressed in these
films with little success.  It relied on energy and special effects to
deliver its message.  I strongly suggest that this film be skipped in favor
of the previously mentioned films. 

******
16 April 1999
6

Despite Keanu, despite the plot holes, despite the horrendous ending, the
Matrix was a good movie.  The story made no sense, but at least they didn't
try to explain anything (which would have been disastrous), and with the
special effects and pace they almost got away.  I am just happy to learn
there are still people out there who do think when they watch a movie!  Too
bad for the Matrix, the more you think, the less you like it.  But IF you
can just stare at the screen and enjoy the moment...  Ah ignorance is bliss!
Hmm, maybe "the Matrix" does has some social commentary to it, what a
thought! 

******
16 April 1999
6

Matrix is a stunning achievement in visual effects, but Keanu Reeves and
Laurence Fishburne both give dreadfully flat and boring performances.  In
short I didn't care about any of the characters, and was bored by the hour
long explanation of the plot (this after Fishburne's character claims that
"no one can be told what the Matrix is").  The Matrix had a similar plot
structure to one of 1998's best movies "Dark City" which unlike the Matrix,
didn't bog down the action with boring actors and dialogue. And did anybody
really buy the garbage ending?

******
15 April 1999
6

Yes, I really enjoyed the effects and the concepts.  However, I expected it
to be a little smarter--the haut couture styles got a little hokey (imagine
Morpheus going virtual shopping for his virtual suits) and the peppering of
the fortune cookie mysticism got annoying.  And let's face it folks, action
movie or not, a film with a lot of stiff acting from some of the main
characters does not make a great film.Quote that sums it up:  Keanu's "Whoa!"--duuuude! 

******
14 April 1999
10

To borrow a single word from the movie and using it with the same emotion,
"Whoaa..."

******
13 April 1999
5

I heard someone once say that if you you like what someone else is doing
artistically you should steal it from them, but The Matrix takes this a bit
too far. I also heard that when you steal you should try to improve upon the
original idea. The makers of Matrix must have missed that part of the
lesson. The Matrix shamelessly steal its story line (and not too well) from
Dark City (a much better movie that makes sense). The costume designer has
no doubt seen Men In Black. The central man v. machine story was also done
better by Stanley Kubrick in 2001: Space Odyssey. I have to admit that I
liked the movie though, but only for the special effects. Finally, I want to
definitively say Keanu Reeves can't act. So, watch The Matrix but leave your
brain at the door. 

******
11 April 1999
5

"The Matrix" is too dark, too long, too tangled and too dumb!  But kudos to
Carrie-Anne Moss who was about the only bright light here.  Although the
head "FBI" agent was hilarious, as was Keanu's kickboxing displays. 


******
11 April 1999
5

Nearly mindless Hollywood action/kung-fu/sci-fi entertainment. Interesting
premise is beaten to death by unrelenting video game mentality and special
effects, clichéd ending. Go for the matinee cheap seats. 

******
11 April 1999
6

This movie starts with an intriguing story.  Albeit, not
really
anything new, I had high hopes for this film to rank highly in my personal
movie favorites list.  The style of the movie is really the best feature,
something one could expect to be repeated in the coming millenium.
Lawrence
Fishburn's portrayal is well done
and somewhat understated.  In fact, all the roles are understated.  I
believe this was purposeful because the Producer
was hoping to acheive big box office totals based on the
special
effects and look of the movie.  In other words, they didn't want to
detract
from the main selling points by bothering with a coherent storyline or
anyone actually acting in this movie.  I thought it was somewhat bland
because of this.  Keannu Reeves is just not a very good
actor. The plot degenerates suddenly into a love story to save the
day. This plot twist actually made me laugh out loud!  It just
seemed out of place, with no reason to occur.  The kung fu aspect of the
storyline
was also laughable.
If he is the one, I don't want to be on the team. In fact I
stopped rooting for the "heroes" about half way through the movie.
Many areas of this film will be copied for years to come, because
there were excellent aspects to the style, however so many things were
done
wrong that it will "rank" as only average overall in book!  See it, but it
is no masterpiece! 

******
10 April 1999
6

Let me start off by saying that I was intrigued by the
premise
of this movie.  However I believe the Hollywoodization of
the
plot turned what could have been excellent into boring
rehashed
crap.  Keanu Reeves is about as good an actor as Nick Cage!!Lawrence Fishburn is good if not somewhat understated.  The
overall look of the movie was excellent.  The
special effects were way above par. The main area that this
film
falters is the fact that somehow this way out futuristic storyline suddenly
reverts to a love story about kung-fu!  I
don't understand why the film couldn't have been just as interesting without
the abrupt change in the story.  It just
seemed silly and geared toward garnering the all important
teen
movie crowd.  I recommend seeing this film, especially in a theater, how
ever I was extremely disappointed that the writers, who also happen to be
the directors, chose the course that they did.  This is in no way the
classic sci-fi/action movie that so many seem to think.  AVERAGE AND
TYPICAL!!

******
10 April 1999
6

I went into the movie with several preconceptions, but I was surprised.  I
was astonished both by the thought that was put into the plot, and the lack
of thought that was put into the theory.  The combination of the second
coming of Christ and Zen Buddhism was nifty, but one would have to leave
their logic in the car outside if they are going to follow the plot without
gasping for coherence.  I thought that Keanu did a fine job, acting the less
like Bill S. Preston Esq. than ever, but it was a bit telling when the
entire theater laughed at his attempt to look stylish while fighting; he
isn't a martial artist.The major holes in the plot may pass by some people, which may be a good
thing, but I think that in a movie which tries to present a possible future,
challenging the mind of the patron, it is sad when there are such problems
in the actual presentation.  There was a definite lack of continuity in
thought that left me feeling insulted, as if the producers thought that I
would not notice that nothing fit together.  I think that if the movie was
written and presented to a publisher, they would get rejected because of the
lack of thoroughness.But wow, there were a lot of scenes that just amazed me.  I was
captured.It has a good story line with poor world design, a great presentation, and
lots of eye candy.I kind of hope that people could look past the problems, but I also would be
saddened if people didn't see the big logical errors.  It would mean that
people don't think about and thus can't learn from movies.  If they don't
get the problems with the movie, they probably don't get the point of it
either. 

******
10 April 1999
10

A lot of action movies failed to make it big in the box offices, because
they were lacking one thing: a plot.  They would spend all of their money on
eye-candy, less care is given to the script or story-line.  The Matrix is
the perfect blend of a great plot and tons of eye-candy.  If you are waiting
for The Phantom Menace, The Matrix should tie you over for a
while.

******
8 April 1999
6

The Matrix is a great movie, but it does have its flaws.  The beginning of
the movie is long and drawn out, I actually had a person snoring behind me.
But, after the first hour the movie starts to rock, until the end.  The end
of the movie seemed rushed.  In my opinion, I believe that the story had too
many different plot details, and they couldn't resolve all the issues, so
a lot of issues went unresolved.  That is why I believe the end
sucked.

******
6 April 1999
10

This movie was all that I expected and so much more, these days it's hard
to
find a movie with tons of action and special effects and still have a
story
line, this movie had both, I was kept on the edge of my seat the entire
film
and was always guessing what is going to happen next, see this movie, you
won't be disappointed, then see it again, and again!!!Don't listen to the people who didn't like it because the story was too
complex, it wasn't too hard to follow even my little brother understood
what
was going on, see this movie.


******
6 April 1999
5

A very long two hours.  The special effects were good, but that's about
it.
The same old plot used over and over again.  Girl kicks butt, guy saves
girls butt, guy and girl like each other's butts.  

******
5 April 1999
5

When the audience laughs at every line the hero utters, but it's not a
comedy, that's NOT a good sign. I loved the FX, fight choreography, art
direction, costumes, and the performances of Fishburne and Weaving. The film
has a not-braindead plot and a couple of genuinely memorable, chilling
images. But I found Reeves, the dialog, and the pacing appalling. Great
action pictures deliver on all fronts: this one had me looking at my watch.
A shame, really. 

******
5 April 1999
6

Matrix was a very entertaining idea for a story, unfortunately it turned
into a typical "bust-'em-up" action film.  Without the long battle
sequences, Matrix could have been a very provocative cinema experience.
The
story was well through out, except for a few errors, resulting in some
sections of the film being unrealistic and unbelievable.The idea of the Matrix was one that got me thinking through out the film,
as
well as several hours after the film of the possibility of it's existence.
In today's film industry, many films are just distorted versions of other
films. The story of the Matrix does not follow suit. On the other hand,
this
is only true for the story.  Of course the action sequences are very
difficult to be original, but several other visual elements were familiar,
because they have be used before.Many scenes in the film made me comment to myself in a sarcastic tone,
"Yeah
right."On the upside, I hope that someday I myself can walk though the metal
detector with many fully automatic weapons strapped to me, if not only to
see the expression on the officer's face.

******
4 April 1999
6

Cool special effects and computer animation.  The plot was not what I
expected; it was dark and depressing.  The movie was somewhat predictable
and the ending left a lot to be desired.  Laurence Fishburne puts in a
solid, if not stellar, performance and Keanu Reeves still needs acting
lessons.  Save the eight bucks and wait for it on video. 

******
3 April 1999
5

Basically this is a western (most action movies are) in sci-fi land--nothing
new here.  Visually the movie is a cross between Pi and 7 Monkeys.  But all
the visual technology never goes beyond window dressing.  The plot is, at
best, confusing.  The dialogue ranges from stupid to insulting.  This is
about as far below typical film fare as their Bound was above.  Not a total
loss, they do show their considerable talent at creating
tension.

******
3 April 1999
6

Maybe I'm missing something.  I thought that this movie was visually
incredible, but the story REALLY let me down.  I think that it is a pity
that such a great set-up leads to a blow-em-up finish.  It would have been
nice if this film's story-line would have captured my interest as much as
the effects.  All in all, worth seeing, but if you are the type that likes a
thick plot that comes together at the end, prepare for
disappointment. 

******
3 April 1999
10

A very sci-fi'ish film.  A normal action fan won't like the film much.
But
if you found Blade Runner or Dark City interesting this film will intrigue
you.  The effects are just absolutely amazing.  The action segments are
exciting and well done.  It reminded me of a John Woo film goes Sci-Fi.  I
really enjoyed the film and found the storyline equally
interesting.

******
2 April 1999
5

This film excels at being a movie.  It is filled with images and concepts
only possible in today's cinema.  I've been waiting for computer imagery
to
finally lend itself to films which were impossible before.  This is such a
film.However, certain elements detract.  The filmmakers obviously became very
involved in the universe they created.  So much so that they tend to
either
delve into meaningless details or worse; Explain the mystery away.  At a
point about a third of the way into the film the curiosity that kept me
involved was quickly dispatched with filler dialogue.  "What?" I thought,
"How can they cripple this film so easily?".Regardless, the action scenes are involving.  The dialogue is largely
tolerable (compared to recent fare), the cinematic style is interesting,
and
the effects are sometimes subtle and sometimes breathtaking.  Keanu Reeves
seems to have settled for a much more subtle approach here, an improvement
in my mind.Personal peeve... When did Laurence Fishburne go Michael Jackson on us?
Obviously the the cinematographer did not know how to handle the exposure
of
dark skin.  In almost any given shot Fishburne appears to have had his
ethnic heritage stolen from him.

******
1 April 1999
10

The Matrix is one of those films that sneaks up on you, and so totally
pulls
you into the story that you feel it, viscerally.The effects were seamless, the acting without peer.  The
plot
was well thought out.. I'm sitting here writing this 15 hours after seeing
the movie, and my skin is still tingling.The pacing of the film is hot, and fast, and skin tight...
The plot twists are nicely laid out...
This is a movie that will provide a 'roller-coaster' type ride... lots of
excellent visuals...  

******
1 April 1999
10

I enjoyed "The Matrix" because the tremendous special effects fit into the
story well and served to enhance the film, not define it.  Too often I
find
CGI distracting, but in a movie that writhes with as much as intensity as
this one- it simply brought me to edge of my seat. I give total credit to
the young brothers that created this film for imagining the story, and
having the wisdom to know that story is, and always should be the most
important thing. Towards the end of the film, I wasn't waiting to see
bigger
guns or cooler kicks, I wanted to know how the story was going to turn
out.


******
1 April 1999
10

If you like the Bruce Lee movies, as well as high tech visual effects,
then
"The Matrix" is definitely a must see! Packed with extraordinary action
scenes, this film has proved to be one of Keanu Reeves's best. It can
mesmerize you the idea of what the Matrix really is.  Believe me, even if
you don't like the story, you will enjoy watching Keanu dodge bullets and
fight the bad guy.

******
24 March 1999
9

Well, I was lucky enough to see this film this morning.  The first viewing
of the complete version in New Zealand.  I must say that it totally blew
me
away.  I was expecting Keanu Reeves to lack the punch the the film
deserved
its lead actor to possess, but I was happily surprised. The rest of the
crew
were suited in their roles and I was also happy to see that there were
even
a couple of Kiwi actors in there.Without trying to give the plot away to much (and yes there is a plot) the
world is taken over by computers and only a rag tag bunch of outsiders can
save the people enslaved although due to the fantastic advances in VR they
dont actually realise that they are prisoners.And of course the only way to save them is with some excellent action
sequences and masterful special effects, slowed down for maximum effect.
Believe me, if you have seen the trailer then you are in for that and a
whole lot more  

******
24 March 1999
10

I went to a preview screening of this movie, and it kicked a**!  This was
as
visually stunning as Dark City, except it packs a lot more punch.  It's
too
bad it's coming out this time of year, it has all the potential to be a
huge
summer hit, and it is sad that its accomplishments will probably be
dwarfed
by Phantom Menace.  This has some of the nicest camera work I've ever seen
(some of it similar to Lock, Stock & 2 Smoking Barrels).  This movie also
manages to create whole world, in the same way that Dark City did.  All in
all, this is probably one of the best sci-fi flicks of the decade, and it
is
certainly much more innovative in its special effects than Phantom Menace
seems to be.PS: don't be scared of the fact that Keanu Reeves is in this, he does a
good
enough job not to ruin the picture

******
22 January 2016
9
It is the best movie that I'v Seen. It gave me a new viewpoint to the
world. No matter how mush times you watch this, its always
entertaining. The story is very deep, the cast is great and the special
effects are still good even if this game out more 11 years ago. I loved
The Matrix, and only a few minor contrivances associated with the
climax caused the film to miss a 10/10 rating. The movie is kinetic,
atmospheric, visually stunning, and mind-bending. It toys with the
boundaries between reality and fantasy in unique and interesting ways.
In its approach and content, The Matrix is undeniably science fiction,
but, unlike most pictures claiming that association, it never falls
into the boring, expected patterns of space battles and laser gun
shoot-outs. Instead, it ventures into territory that, while not virgin,
is sufficiently interesting to provide an involving, invigorating
backdrop.

******
18 January 2016
10
Thomas A. Anderson is a man living two lives. By day he is an average
computer programmer and by night a hacker known as Neo. Neo has always
questioned his reality, but the truth is far beyond his imagination.
Neo finds himself targeted by the police when he is contacted by
Morpheus, a legendary computer hacker branded a terrorist by the
government. Morpheus awakens Neo to the real world, a ravaged wasteland
where most of humanity have been captured by a race of machines that
live off of the humans' body heat and electrochemical energy and who
imprison their minds within an artificial reality known as the Matrix.
As a rebel against the machines, Neo must return to the Matrix and
confront the agents: super-powerful computer programs devoted to
snuffing out Neo and the entire human rebellion. That's basically the
plot

******
8 January 2016
10
THE MATRIX!One of my favorite movies, a classic! One of the best movie in 1999,
today still impress with its special effects, action, you can feel the
perfection in the production when you see it, you can feel in every
second in the movie the great work that all the team did. One of our
favorite scene is when Neo is in the roof of the building holding the
rope and decide tie it in the hand to save Trinity. Also when he
decided to confront the agent. Thanks to all, for so awesome movie that
could help a lot of people in many ways. THANKS!Best Regards, ART GOD & LOVE INC. Dayron Villaverde

******
27 December 2015
10
Note: It is difficult to understand the film in first see. A must see
film if you are bored by same daily routine films. A brainteaser for
audiences force them to think.I don't know why all three installments
of Matrix are having below 9 ratings. Actually there is no flaw in all
these films. A evergreen script and action scenes you will watch over
and over again! I liked this movie as it specifically meant us to think
how the things act internally of computer literally. Also I come across
the observation that the colors used for filming the particular is not
for fun but they have given it meaning like: The green color indicates
the scenes inside the matrix, white color shows that the purity of the
soul like scenes of sati, oracle. etc. Those who haven't still watched
it, just download three parts and take a ride.

******
23 December 2015
10
A mixture of philosophy, religion and cutting edge special effects
defines The Matrix and the ability of co-writer/directors Andy and
Larry Wachowski to keep audiences intrigued all while wooden characters
play out some of the best action ever seen on film is a testament to
this film's staying power. However, will The Matrix ultimately define
the downfall of the Wachowski brothers as all their future projects
will be compared to their early blockbuster, or will they one day be
able to be considered something more than just the boys that brought us
bullet- time?The Matrix centers on Neo (Keanu Reeves), a computer hacker with a low
level job at a software company who learns early on he is destined to
play a major role in the fate of humanity. An introduction to a small
band of rebels led by a man named Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) soon
teaches him life as he knows it doesn't exist. The human development of
artificial intelligence backfired resulting in a war of man vs. machine
that ended in a scorched Earth and robot domination. Humans are farmed
for their energy and "plugged into" a virtual world monitored by
programs referred to as Agents.Hugo Weaving stars as the career defining Agent Smith, a role he will
always be remembered for as it would now seem impossible to see anyone
else playing the monotone aggressor. The role calls for such restraint
while an impossible emotional turmoil is broiling on the inside. It is
by far the best performance in the film, primarily because the dialogue
services his character while the others are operating outside of a
standard set of rules and still manage to less human emotion than the
programs that monitor the system from which they escaped. Perhaps once
you are free of the machine's control you have no sense of identity and
therefore also have no personality. Who knows, but it hardly matters as
spectacle and philosophical substance outweighs performance in this
flick.The Matrix could be described as the ultimate homage as it has the look
of 1998's Dark City, the near exact narrative of Fritz Lang's
Metropolis (as exampled), begins with a Vertigo-Esq rooftop chase and
has its own version of a spaghetti western shootout. Traces of "Alice
in Wonderland" can be found all while the Wachowskis dabble in every
philosophical conceit known to man before passing off the protagonist
as the Messiah of a new era. This, quite frankly, is where my primary
intrigue in this film remains. Connections between fantasy, reality,
religion and philosophy has always intrigued me in films even if the
connections are subtle. I love to see how filmmakers and screenwriters
can think of new ways to tell the old stories in what seems like a
unique environment, something The Matrix certainly is despite its
ripped off roots.The Wachowskis decided on a perfect actor to play our Messiah character
dubbed The One, Keanu Reeves. Reeves is often made fun of for his
wooden acting, and considered a bad actor due to his rather lifeless
performances but the dialogue in The Matrix calls for just such a
personality. One thing you can never fault Reeves on is his ability to
choose roles, over the course of his career he has managed to pick
roles that suit his style time and time again. These roles play to his
strengths making his acting style something of an invaluable "talent".
Trying to imagine anyone other than Reeves delivering the now classic "
Whoa" line is damn near impossible, especially considering Jeff Spicoli
is all grown up.Whether you look at The Matrix as an incomprehensible mess of mambo
jumbo or a message filled marvel, there is no denying the effect it had
on cinema with its introduction of bullet-time camera-work that was not
only cool, but an effective, and almost vital, way to tell their story;
without it this film may have quite possibly failed right out of the
gate. It's very rare to find technical advances in film that actually
service the story rather than hinder the filmmakers. Quite often a film
will get bogged down in effects and the director will forget they are
telling a story. Despite the fact this was the Wachowskis' second
feature length film they were able to rein in any urge to go overboard
and stayed within their narrative structure, giving the audience
everything they needed to stay engaged while leaving out just enough to
keep them wanting more.

******
22 December 2015
10
When I say that it is the perfect mix between Sci-Fi, philosophy and
love is not just to try to put a label on it or adjust it to a genre,
but to state that it has all the components that makes a wonderful
movie. Since I don't want to write spoilers, all I can say is that
anyone who watches it should be able to love it for one reason or
another (even if you like technology and action, which are not my
personal preferences but they sure are very well done). Excellent
performances, outstanding writing and directing by the Wachowski,
beautiful photography and scenarios, amazing scripts for the actors...
Guaranteed you are going to keep watching the trilogy for sure.

******
15 December 2015
8
The Matrix to me was a great movie, I say this because throughout this
movie you see some revolutionary techniques. I honestly think that this
movie had a great concept and that few can match it's idea.This movie
means a lot to me I grew up with this movie, throughout the series this
is my favorite. It led to a great series, this was the first of it's
kind.The Wachowski brothers really did excel themselves with this
movie. It's a brilliant movie on a number of different levels - the
directing is excellent, the camera work is great, the visuals are
stunning, the kung- fu is A+, acting is executed with style and
conviction, and the plot is truly inspired. It's really hard to use
enough superlatives on this movie!

******
9 November 2015
5
Oh, what the hell.... I certainly won't argue with the obvious fact
that The Matrix did contain some very fine moments of CGI excellence,
but I will argue with the fact that every single character in this film
was less than likable (some clearly less likable than others). And
because of that painfully plain truth The Matrix only rates 5 stars.In particular, it was The Oracle who I thought to be nothing but a big,
pudding-faced phony, baking her stale cookies and cheerfully dispensing
away with her worthless "kitchen-counter" prophecies and laughable
"dime-store" philosophy as if it were all to be taken at face value by
gullible fools, like the stubborn, thick-skulled Morpheus.And, on top of that, no one can tell me that NYC has such an incredibly
vast and spacious sewer system that a literal fleet of ships the size
of the Nebuchadnezzur can actually get lost within them for days and
days on end, while scouting around for who-knows-what (?).

******
2 October 2015
10
There are lots of movies that I like and picking the favorite one among
all of them seems unfair, like saying that the others lack something
important. That said, I still have to be fair to my favorite movie
which really tops them all and puts them under its feet. Yes, that is
what The Matrix has done to other movies and still manages to do so.When I first saw it I was blown away by its story, not so much with
acting and visual effects, although both the acting and the visuals are
fantastic (it won the Oscar for best effects  sound and visuals). The
performances put in by Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne really
transfer the audience into the reality of the movie, making the viewer
understand and experience to some point the diverse emotions felt by
the protagonists.The metaphors that the movie uses make the Matrix a great tool for
understanding our reality. It doesn't uncover the secret societies that
rule our world, or similar cheap schemes, instead, it deals with more
important personal approach towards everyday life. It puts general
people's perceptions, fears, love and desires into such a perspective
that shows what those emotional states really are and how our
understanding and relation to them is inadequate if not entirely false.It starts with the question of what is the Matrix. At first, it is not
clear whether it is a complex machine or the program running that
machine or maybe an idea that wants to impose itself onto others. In
order to explain this, the movie slowly leads us through scenes of
philosophical discussions, contemplation and even fighting. The amazing
action scenes are there to entertain us, but more importantly, they
serve to show us that our capabilities are only limited by our own
mind. The Matrix suggests that if the mind lets go, our strength can go
beyond imaginable, beyond what we consider to be real. Hence the
unrealistic scenes of dodging the bullets and similar. It leaves it up
to viewer to reveal the similarities between the Matrix and the
everyday life which makes those revelations personal hence more
believable. It doesn't try to lead us into believing that something
like Matrix can exist somewhere in virtual world it rather shows us
that we already live in such a world.But hey, what do I know. This is only how I was affected by the this
movie. Not everyone would agree with me but that is exactly what the
Matrix has proposed. People are enslaved within their minds and if they
do not break free of the old patterns of looking at things and if they
don't try to look deeper then the reality will never reveal itself.
Since the only way to go there and live the reality is through personal
growth, it all starts with the individual and takes one person at a
time. It can't be massive, it can't be done in some revolutionary
fashion, it needs to go from within of each and every one of us.
Powerful message!

******
14 August 2015
10
This is not just a typical movie with a goal. Indeed, this masterpiece
is about the meaning of life. You Should not miss this movie. This is
not just a typical movie with a goal. Indeed, this masterpiece is about
the meaning of life. You Should not miss this movie. This is not just a
typical movie with a goal. Indeed, this masterpiece is about the
meaning of life. You Should not miss this movie. This is not just a
typical movie with a goal. Indeed, this masterpiece is about the
meaning of life. You Should not miss this movie. This is not just a
typical movie with a goal. Indeed, this masterpiece is about the
meaning of life. You Should not miss this movie.

******
30 July 2015
10
My review of the best epic Science Fiction Action film, The Matrix
(1999) starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss,
Hugo Weaving, Joe Pantoliano, Marcus Chong and Gloria Foster.This was be the first movie I went to see in the movie theater with my
mom when I was 15.years old, when I read in the magazines about The
Matrix I was blown away and I wanted to see it right away. Like I said
in my Early review Johnny Mnemonic (1995) this one and The Matrix are
far 2 the best action sci-fi films that Keanu Reeves made in the 90's.
Still the sequels ruined this movie and we didn't need another two
sequels they were really unnecessary. The Matrix is a (1999) American science fiction action film written and
directed by The Wachowskis, starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne,
Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, and Joe Pantoliano. It depicts a
dystopia future in which reality as perceived by most humans is
actually a simulated reality called "the Matrix", created by sentient
machines to subdue the human population, while their bodies' heat and
electrical activity are used as an energy source. Computer programmer
"Neo" learns this truth and is drawn into a rebellion against the
machines, which involves other people who have been freed from the
"dream world".Written and directed by the Wachowski brothers, this classic sci-fi
action film stars Keanu Reeves as a lowly computer programmer who
discovers his entire existence, and that of all mankind, is nothing but
a simulation in a computer. The reality within a reality is a concept
that's done before... but never like this - The Matrix requires
absolute attention from his audience, least you'll be completely lost
in a few minutes. With the help of supporting cast members Laurence
Fishburne and Carrie-Anne-Moss, Reeves discovers that inside this
simulation environment known as The Matrix, he can control, bend, and
manipulate space-time... resulting in some of the most incredibly
iconic images to ever grace the silver screen. The slow-motion
"bullet-time" effects as they're known today were groundbreaking and
revolutionary when we first saw them 12 years ago. Although Reeves is
notorious for his inability to really convey much emotional range, his
character here lends itself well to him as an actor. This is a movie
that makes you think, makes you gasp, and makes totally forget where
the 136-minutes went after finishing it. It's no wonder this film
spawned two very successful sequels, and dozens of copy-cats. The
Matrix, "Visually revolutionary, and mind-blowing." Keanu Reeves plays the main character, Neo, or Thomas A. Anderson and
while he is not the perfect actor I think he does a pretty good job in
The Matrix. He doesn't have the longest of lines which was probably a
deliberate choice from the directors and it works because this gives
him a better opportunity to work on posture and facial expressions and
I must say that overall his body language is very good. Very clear and
well defined. Laurence Fishbourne plays Neo's mentor Morpheus and he
does an excellent job of it. His lines flow with a certain confidence
and style that makes his character somewhat unique and interesting.
Carrie-Anne Moss does a good job as well and succeeds in looking both
cool and sexy in her leather outfit. Joe Pantoliano, a critically
underrated actor does a brilliant job of bringing his character,
Cypher, to life. He also played the roles in Underrated Daredevil
(2003)and Bad Boys I & II. I can't say much about him because his
character is pretty essential to the plot. Gloria Foster appears in a
relatively small role that will have greater significance in the
following films and she does a very good job. The best acting is
provided by Hugo Weaving, however, in his portrayal of Agent Smith. It
is really something to watch him act out the changes in his character.
Agent Smith gains some human traits like anger, sense of dread, hate
and eventually even a sly sense of humor. Two thumbs way up to Weaving
who has created one of the finest screen villains of all time.Effects wise the film is simply stunning and it deservedly was awarded
the Oscar for best effects (and was regrettably cheated out of a
nomination in the Best Film category) ahead of even Star Wars. The
reason that I think The Matrix deserves the Oscar for best effects is
simply that the effects in The Matrix are more innovative than the ones
in Star Wars. Just take a look at how many times the effects have been
spoofed and you'll probably agree. The effects also help in the
symbolism of the film and in creating a very dystopia atmosphere not
unlike the one seen in Blade Runner and this works brilliantly. The
film looks beautiful at all times and today 16 years later (my God has
it already been 16 years?) the effects still hold their ground against
new science fiction films. Add the effects to the brilliant editing and
you have a visual masterpiece on your hands. Very well done.The film also won 4 Academy Awards including for best visual effects. 10/10 for one of the best epic American science fiction action film's
in the history movies like this and Aliens (1986) don't exist anymore.

******
9 July 2015
10
For those that love sci-fi and fantasy, this is a must see. I can't
think of a single person that did not like this movie and the ones
after it in the series that likes sci-fi and fantasy.I loved this film because of the methods used in presenting the
concept. The play on words used with some of the characters and the
special effects were well done.I got lost in the mix of the characters as the plot played out and
found myself in the movie with them experiencing it. Revelations of truth are found in expressions of beauty in our reality
and this is one of those creations to experience.

******
17 May 2015
9
While many movie goers might not grasp the Wachowski brothers name,
with the efforts they display here their on their way to be known.
Directorial efforts from the Wachowski brothers who are also penning
their own script are looking to provide spark to the sci-fi genre. Where they looked to dominate first was with their casting choices
which are tremendous high rewards and low risk acquires. (Laurence
Fishburne, Keanu Reeves, Carrie Anne Moss) as the leading trio are
immensely underrated coming into this film and the actors pull off a
gripping epic. Each bringing it's own style to their role and aiming to
keep the audience remembering of it's main characters well after the
film has ended. Also adding Hugo Weaving as the villain who challenges
both (Neo and Morpheus) and shows a very intimidating force in Hugo
Weaving who's presenting the coolest, smoothest mobster you've yet
seen.The story blends a very engaging action scifi epic, where it
intertwines it's unique premise along with it's unique outlook on a
future apocalyptic world. Being linked into another world with a
freshly born human being with the possibility to do anything as long as
your imagination and will power contributed to this cause. Suggestions
of love interests swindle along through the movie but the directors
respect it enough and bring it on steadily and smooth. Where i do think
this film could've been made as a stand alone film i won't deny my urge
to see another showing of this type of craftsmanship. When you blend
action, scifi, romance, and one of the most well executed ideas on film
it proves for a vastly great ride. Anyone who wants to see a grand spectacle of action, special effects,
production design, cinematography then make way to the nearest theater,
rasputin, torrent site, etc and feast your eyes on this action flick
that'l leave movie goers in awe.

******
14 May 2015
5
*SPOILER ALERT* If They could put in The Jump program, karate, martial
arts, etc programs into a person, why not just put in a superman
program! Like the jump program was Impossible, the Superman Program
Would be impossible too! If you're connected to the matrix for a long
time and if you have to go pee... You pee in the matrix but where does
that pee go in real life as they only connect the brain while they put
you in the matrix. These put The Matrix as a 5/10 star review from me.
Another thing I do not understand is how people don't get the movie!
The movie is very very easy to understand. Be-Lieve Me!If You get this
movie for free, I think, I think it is your money's worth but certainly
not your time's worth. Thank You. But this is my individual opinion and
if you are against me, I don't give a Damn!

******
27 April 2015
6
The concept of The Matrix is interesting, engaging, yet before the
first half of the movie is over, the directors decide a plot is no
longer necessary. The acting is second and third rate. The plot is an
annoyance usually ignored. The dialogue is cliché, weak, and for the
most part, useless. However, the action replacing the plot is some of
the best to hit the screen. The Matrix delivers visually impressive and
intense action sequences. Costumes, bullets, and incredibly well
choreographed fight scenes create some of the most memorable moments in
cinema. Very entertaining, with little sophistication, The Matrix
becomes pretentious at times. Despite all of The Matrix's flaws, I
still say it is a must watch. As a pure action movie, it rivals all
others, creating scenes you will remember long in the future.

******
28 March 2015
10
The Matrix is the best film i have ever seen. When i watch it, i said
that it is very interesting, really and really and really. After that,
also now I'm speaking about matrix every time because i love. Im
telling this film to all of my friends because i think everyone must
watch this film. Yes, everyone. And another thing about matrix, it's
telling about very much important things to us. So Wachowski brothers
are very successful. Can you think that ? You are the director of The
Matrix. When i think, it is enough for a smile. And my comment is about
The Matrix, guys you must to watch it. İt is an amazing movie. See you
in another film.

******
24 March 2015
10
Cool, groundbreaking, mind-twisting and simply phenomenal! A landmark
science fiction masterpiece, that set a whole new standard for
out-of-the-box film-making. Keanu Reeves may be dryer than a stick
under the scorching California sun, but I still think he was one of the
greatest of all possible casting choices for Neo. The true
scene-stealer of the film, however, is the mesmerizingly brilliant Hugo
Weaving, as the chilling and calculative Agent Smith. He isn't the
typical villain, but an extremely intelligent baddie, whose every
utterance is a fascinating piece of his multi-faceted, yet cold-hearted
mind. Of course, the real crowd-drawer here though, is the visually
spectacular special effects. At the time of release, they made
everything that came before it virtually obsolete. While it isn't a
perfect creation (no movie truly is), it's still pretty much as close
as you can get. A personal favourite of mine, whose mind-blowing
concoction of philosophy, martial arts and top-of-the-line SFX, makes
it one of the most awesome film experiences ever. Now, the question
remains: Will you take the red pill or the blue pill?

******
7 March 2015
10
I personally love this movie and if you have not seen it you are
missing out because it is for sure a must see. It's about a man (Neo)
who keeps hearing rumours about a revolutionist by the name of Morpheus
and Neo decides to meet with him. Morpheus explains to him that he must
come with him on an adventure. Neo wakes up in a space ship surrounded
by people he had met and they explain to him that he was in a computer
world called the Matrix. Neo was now introduced to the real world which
was overrun by machines that rose up and claimed the earth and the
humans went underground in order to survive. Morpheus then tells Neo
that he is the one who will save earth and create peace with the
machines and stop the Matrix from destroying the real world. The
incredible story line and dialogue along with the incredible action
sequences and stunts made this movie an incredible film experience that
really opened my eyes and made me realize that it's a possibility we do
live in a fake world run by all of our thoughts.

******
7 March 2015
9
The sentiment of The Matrix, the chief paranoia dominating its message,
is one as old as the hills: that reality is not what it seems.Its execution, that AI has taken over and created a virtual reality for
us, is a very modern fear, and one perhaps growing ever more realistic
as the decades go by....or maybe we are already in one? *cue dramatic chipmunk clip* Aside from this epic premise, and the profound questions it asks, we
still get a riproaring action sci-fi with two brilliant characters
(Morpheus and Agent Smith), pulsating set-pieces, nice martial art
moves, excellent effects and solid pacing.Keanu Reeves' unavoidable blandness (and that of his love interest)
aren't really detrimental. The philosophical musing surrounding his
place in the universe is tantalising and its further development was
ostensibly intended for the sequels (alas...we all know how that turned
out).As a standalone action film with intelligent ideas, it's utterly
recommended. Watch the sequels too if you're curious, but the quality
drops off somewhat (more focus on the action, less on the
'intelligent').

******
4 March 2015
9
The movie "The Matrix" is going about Neo. Neo lives in a fake world
called the Matrix, the real world is taken over by robots. The people
who are still in the Matrix, don't know anything of the real world.
Plato, a Greek philosopher, had a passage called the "Allegory of the
Cave". In this passage, Plato says: people has to imagine that
everybody lives in a cave. We are prisoners and we can't escape or
move. We only have to look at a wall with shadows. Plato says that we
will think these shadows are the truth. when a prisoner is outside, the
outside will be really sharp (example: a sharp sun). but once he is
endorsed, it will be way more nicer outside. This is nearly the same as
in the movie "The Matrix", we all live in a fake world (cave=matrix)
and there are some people who want to go out the fake world (Neo). So
the Matrix is a really psychological/philosophic movie. That makes it a
really nice movie! Watch it! (Also a psychological/philosophic movie:
They live)

******
4 March 2015
10
This movie brought to the land between dreams and life! Which one is
which! A amazing perspective changer for what we are all doing at this
very moment! Watch it and tell me if you don't feel different
afterward. A Critical Turning Point in our psychology!The matrix is the structure of our minds! Are we aware of the structure
of our imagination? it really adds a new dimension to our everyday
living. Are we sure that we know the real purpose of living. Are we
really determining our own lives or are we a source for someone else?Keanu Reeves plays an amazing role. he gets to bend and play with rules
of the physical universe that we imagine are fixed. It might not be so.

******
3 March 2015
9
The effects are astonishing. It's funny, it's dark, it's smart and it's
filled with guns, lots of guns. A landmark film and quite possibly the
ultimate expression of cyberpunk. The Matrix is a movie experience like
no other, and experience is what it's all about. It explodes with
dazzling visuals and a transcendent sense of excitement. Where other
films are done in by the freedom offered by computer effects, The
Matrix integrates them beautifully. Inspired by different sources
(including Japanese anime), The Matrix is a new kind of movie, a
visionary mixture of technology, philosophy and thrilling action. The
Matrix is fun, and while it may confuse you first time around, a second
viewing is really required to get the full 'entertainment' value out of
it. The paranoid details of the premise are thoroughly worked out; the
characters and motives, much less so.

******
25 February 2015
10
This is one of the movies that i can say "This movie changed my life".
And yes, this is my case. I was in high school when i've seen it for
the first time, and i was amazed with his quality and all the moves..
For sure, i can say i would watch it for another 1000 times. I believe
that this movie is the best one that Keanu Reeves play'd in. This movie
inspired a hole generation too look further that the eye can see. You
must see the truth before you get to know yourself. Only then you can
see the real life as it is. If you don't see it and live in the same
routine you'll get to have a boring life and for all this, you will be
the only guilty for your life mistakes.

******
24 February 2015
9
In the late 20th century, a young handyman and his wife (Barry Stokes,
Penny Meredith) move to a small village and set up business. There, the
handyman encounters numerous strange characters, including a local
constable (Chic Murray) more inept than a squad car full of Keystone
Kops; an elderly magistrate (Bob Todd) whose primary passion is
spanking young women; a schoolmistress (Sue Lloyd) with a closet full
of kinks; and more predatory housewives than the young man can handle.This film is an interesting attempt to toe the line between soft core
and hard core. There is some nudity, but nothing that would have
shocked the average teenager in the 1970s. The sexual situations
depicted are presented as comedy, with absolutely zero substance.- Written by Dan Navarro (daneldorado93@yahoo.com)

******
24 February 2015
9
There are a lot of symbols throughout many different aspects of the
film that embody and support similarities to Plato's Allegory of the
Cave. Going back to the movie's scene of the red pill vs. the blue
pill, Neo enters a room where he meets Morpheus for the first time; the
symbols to be noted here are the rain and the thunderstorm happening
just outside. Rain symbolizes Thomas Anderson's moment of rebirth,
taking place upon his decision to leave the confines of the matrix;
furthering this interpretation, Neo is Latin for "new," and becomes his
name once amongst the rebels in the real world. The chaos of the
thunderstorm during Neo's first encounter with Morpheus is a symbol of
Neo's mind disrupting or even starting to neglect the perfection and
illusion that is the matrix. In both cases of these particular symbols,
the rain and the storm, they are the only sounds in the scene,
providing the background nuance to the dialogue exchanged between
Morpheus and Neo. We know that Neo, all though hesitant for a brief
instant, takes the red pill from Morpheus's outstretched hand. The red
color of the pill that offered Neo the freedom from the mental prison
of the matrix, can be seen to symbolize the brutality of how
challenging the truth is going to be, but also how intriguing and
alluring it is at the same time. Blue is a soothing color, symbolizing
the comforting feelings and blissful ignorance of staying in the
matrix. The simplicity of how the scene is physical organized, the
visual presentation of the room's dilapidated condition, and especially
the cinematography, help set the uninterrupted, to-the-point atmosphere
the scene requires. There are two chairs, equally the same and facing
each other at a reasonable, but intimate distance; besides the chairs
and small end table, the room doesn't really have any other furniture,
and rightfully so. In a modestly simple atmosphere created in his mind,
Neo is presented with the biggest decision of his life. In addressing
the cinematography used, there were many up close shots of Neo and
Morpheus, which is an emphasis on the importance of Morpheus's
proposition and ultimately, Neo's decision.A well thought-out storyline, executed impeccably through the series of
three films, the creators of The Matrix trilogy successfully captivated
the essence and ideas of great philosophical minds from ancient Greece,
along with making it applicable to a realistic possibility of a future
(or even a view of the present, if you dare to go that deep). Much like
1984 and Brave New World, the movie The Matrix presents the audience
with a future interpretation of the world, which is comprised of an
oppressed state of mankind dominated by and built upon various
technological advancements and systems, leaving only a small minority
of rebels. Although we are not paranoid big brother hears and sees
everything we do, we are not soma medicated caste workers, and we are
not living in some digital world only through our mind's projection of
ourselves, how our culture immerses technology into everyday being and
the degree to how infatuated we are with the media is a testament to
the caves our culture is prisoner of. Expert media and societal
analyzer, Neil Postman would possibly argue the current media as being
our society's mental prison; "we are amusing ourselves to death," a
well-known quote from Postman, it is a reflection towards his strong
view on the detrimental nature of the media to the American culture and
society, both as a whole and on an individual level. As mankind
continues on its race towards new developments and technological
advancements, we must be cautious and aware of the answer to the
question of what kind of society we want to live in. Caves are
difficult to recognize, and often it takes an outsider's help to
realize that you're even imprisoned, but when you do recognize a cave,
then you can see a way out. It's never an easy exit into the light and
open space of the outside world, however once acclimated to the
changes, you can begin to achieve a state of higher knowledge. Because
Neo took the red pill, he accepted the challenges to come facing the
truth and as a result, he gained a greater satisfaction in knowing the
real, and created a fate for himself in the real world as being "the
one," the rebels' savior. In more ways than one, this cinematic gem
reflects and represents through countless symbols and world of the
matrix itself, a strong relation to the great philosophical works of
Plato, particularly his story The Allegory of the Cave.Check out My Blog: http://mknavarre.blogspot.com/

******
10 February 2015
8
When I saw this first part of the Matrix series I was astounded! To say
the least! I am not sure what impressed me more, was it the plot,
acting or visual and special effects. I could write hours about the
film and putting it into the stars, but why should I? All the praises
were said about this film, and I read most of the reviews and I have to
agree with most of the reviews praising this film.We would all like to be heroes of the Matrix, and sometimes in our
conscience during waking up from the sleep we feel that we are
somewhere else in some Matrix. During those very short periods of half
consciousness which we feel we are not present we feel we are in some
kind of Matrix. Tortured people, people in jails, soldiers in combat,
people in a near death experiences, they are part of some Matrix.May be, just my be we are all in Matrix now without even knowing it. :)

******
28 January 2015
9
I gave 9 because there are no movies which worth 10 points. In any case
comparing to others those years movies it was one of the best. All
scenes done very well including shooting running and the whole
scenario. As I remember movie critics told to world that movie is not
worth a penny, but it was the most successful movie on 1999. Actors
done their job really well as movie directors and producers. I always
liked fantasy/fight movies like this. At least for me the best actor
which acted on that movie was Laurence Fishburne which acted Morpheus
(The teacher of main movie actor Neo). Also Keanu Reeves did his job
really well acting Neo. Who knows, maybe there will another Matrix
movie on 2015 or at least similar to it :) Actually the movie is good to watch nowadays as well and I recommend to
watch it with your friends on Friday night and remember 1999 Years.

******
20 January 2015
9
What do i need to say about a classic such as the Matrix? It is not
just another action flick to be forgotten as time passes. It's
philosophical basis, the incredible plot and the bullet-time sequences
can please any viewer. Keanu Reeves fits perfectly in the role of Neo
while Carrie Ann-Moss, Robert Fishburne and forever evil Hugo Weaving
do an excellent job too. The idea of the fake world is just ingenious
and is well translated into the film by the green code effect.I should
also recommend the awesome anime Ghost In The Shell,that greatly
affected the tone of the Matrix .It's a great film, just watch it and
you will understand how many cyberpunk and not only movies you may like
were so greatly affected by it. a guaranteed masterpiece.

******
17 January 2015
10
One of the greatest movies of all time. The story is a little difficult
to follow even though unique, but the action scenes will blow you away.
One has to get their mind ready to think in order to fully understand
this film. The main actors were stellar and all other characters played
their part quite well. The follow ups were both watered down version of
this first masterpiece and The Matrix will certainly take viewers out
of reality into the world of The Matrix. The use of CG in this movie
masterpiece was nothing short of outstanding. This maybe why several
movies have spawned from this great film. The Matrix has changed the
making of Science fiction films forever.

******
17 December 2014
8
The Matrix was not the first VR movie in the theater but probably it
was the one of such genre had most public impact. Pay attention to how
they plug and unplug into the Matrix, and ask yourself does it look
like something we do in our everyday life? Does it look like we sleep
and wake up? Not here to second guess what the writer/director's
philosophy or what they're trying to point out with this movie, but, at
least, together with another movie they also made, Cloud Atlas, they're
two of the people who really know what's going on in this "Real World".
This "Real World", in fact, is a Matrix, we're all souls incarnating
here to experience, and we all come from this "ONE", the consciousness,
regardless different religions. Unfortunately Cloud Atlas went away
from the basic rule of story telling, show don't tell, the mini stories
of different character's "fate" not justify what they're telling, the
Oneness and how we are all connected, at all, and it sank in the box
office. Hopefully the brothers will bring more movies like The Matrix,
with messages that inspire the audience Personally, the Matrix made me
realize the incarnation, it was a mile stone on my re-awakening journey
of putting all puzzles together and found God. Thank you very much, the
movie The Matrix.

******
14 December 2014
10
I remember watching this movie when I was young and did not really
understand what happened in the movie. I still remember enjoying the
movie for the fight scenes. I watched it again after a few years and
finally got all the references and understood "The Matrix" for what is
was. This is one of those rare movies which is intelligent while being
believable at the same time. The entire concept can be quite mind
boggling for a first time viewer but once you watch it, you will want
to watch it again.It also helps if you have a basic understanding of Computer science and
Artificial Intelligence as the entire movie revolves around these two
themes. Without giving anything away, if you have not seen this movie
then stop whatever you are doing and go and watch it.

******
11 November 2014
9
It is my third time to watch this movie and I have to admit that until
the last time did I fully understand the whole story. There were many reviews and explanations about this movie on the
Internet. But without going any further into those details, this is an
outstanding movie for people to practice oral English. The actors did a
masterpiece work to make every word clear. It is not hard to catch up
with the sentences. What is more, it is a PG-13 movie, which means it is good for
teenagers. As someone who speaks English as second language, I highly
recommend this movie as a "textbook" material for English learning.For the story, when you fully understand the logic, there is not much
room for critics. Not as other sci-fi movies filmed after it. Maybe
there is one of two things that don't make sense. But they don't matter
and won't bother you to enjoy the whole story.

******
6 November 2014
10
It's been a while since a movie has generated enough interest in me for
me to watch it. "The Matrix" looked exciting enough in the trailers, so
I decided to give it a look. What I found was an amazing movie, with
some of the greatest special effects I've ever seen. The camera angles
really work for the action sequences and the choreographed fight scenes
made me yearn for more. Say what you want about Keanu Reeves' acting.
He may not deliver the best dialogue, but his look can carry a film. He
was a great choice for the role of Neo. Carrie Anne Moss was great as
was the underrated Laurence Fishburne. I highly recommend this film for
those who are a fan of visually stunning movies. It will blow away your
senses...

******
24 October 2014
10
I watched this movie of the years from my childhood to adulthood and
each year I noticed something different. This movie went over my head
in the beginning, but boy oh boy now I am AWARE! The Matrix is amazing
and although my husband has been telling me this over and over again, I
never wanted to give him any credit nor did I want to give a movie so
much praise. I can't help it! Who in the world thought about the pills?
Whoever did needs to come give me a big hug. I love you... and the
multiple doors the key holder went through?? Hmmm...now every time I am
around my family and friends and they say, "Your caught in the Matrix"
I can stop rolling my eyes and actually laugh and respond, "Ha! Yeah
right"

******
3 June 2014
10
The Matrix! What can I say? It is extremely violent, extremely
preposterous, and extremely entertaining. The Matrix succeeds at two
extremely difficult tasks: as a vast, exciting virtual-reality movie
and as a defibrillator for Keanu Reeves' big screen career. The Matrix
is one of the best movies ever made. Well Done for 1999. The beginning
of great technology and cool effects. Love it! It is a classic to a
great trilogy!! A must-see among genre fans, especially guys in their
teens and 20s, for whom the script's pretentious talk of undergraduate
mythology, religious mysticism and technical could even be a plus
rather than a dramatic liability.

******
1 June 2014
10
"Matrix" is , from my point of view, one of the best stories about this
Univers. Seems to me that we actually CAN believe in this scenario,
where human beings are only some slaves and no matter what we do we can
not emerge from this state of facts... But, after all, what we are, if
we are not the graters believers. We believe in everything media tells
us is true, we believe in all that religion tells us is true, we
believe in anything... Sad is that, we forget to believe in ourselves,
and, this is the point where "Matrix" come and re-teach us to believe.
In fact, the whole story speaks to our ego and transmit a message: "in
the end, all that matters is to believe IN YOURSELF!!! Enjoy this
magnificent movie!

******
18 May 2014
10
Greetings from Lithuania.What can i say about this film, that hasn't been said before. Probably
nothing new - just another review that worships "The Matrix".Yes, the film is perfect, perfect in any way you prefer. I just like
almost all of us have watched "The Matrix" for ~20 times, in 2-3 years
after it's release and each time that was unforgettable tour de force.
The timeless plot, characters, action. It created a new dimension in
movie making. Almost 10 years have passed since i saw it last time, and last week i
got the blue ray of it, and sat down for a re watch, on my new
projector and sound system. "The Matrix", to my little surprise, hasn't
aged a bit. Really. The visuals still look the same as it was in the
year 2000. Still. The same. After 15 years! After "Avatar" and many
more visuals feasts that i have witnessed, the look of this film in my
eyes hasn't aged a bit - i won't lie - i was surprised. Maybe it's
because the driving force behind this masterpiece was always a plot,
the characters and action wasn't over forced - it always looked as a
natural thing of events. So i won't go in to details, plot - you all know it very well. What i
like to say, is that you should check this film again if you haven't
see it for some time, it really looks stunning. Ye, i said "if you
haven't see it for some time" - i don't believe that there is a living
human who likes to watch movies that hasn't see and admire this film
before.

******
18 May 2014
10
It is amazing because it have to much action. And for me is one of my
favorite movies.when ever the movie comes up I forget everything what
I'm doing or about to do and watch the movie all the way. I wish I was
the matrix because it is really awesome and it would be so fun. I
always wanted to be in the matrix movie because I love action movies
and adventure movie especially when it comes up horror movie. The part
of the movie that I like was when matrix was fighting clones and he was
only one and the enemy were more and matrix got them all like that. I
like the part when they were shooting at matrix and matrix stop the
bullets or he dodge the bullets. The movie is really interesting
because it has to much action and and science and fiction.

******
17 May 2014
10
This film, still to this day one of my favorites. Directed by Andy
Wachowski and Lana Wachowski, this film takes you on a journey and is
full of top notch action. The concept of this film is the magnet that
pulls you into the center of The Matrix. The journey of "The One", is
definitely not your typical hero scenario. Instead of a hero who is
established or aware of his abilities you see a stranger amongst
strangers trying to adapt to a new life. As Neo's consciousness matures
so does his faith and belief's. This well sculpted film requires
imagination in order to grasp the story. In my opinion, The Matrix does
not fall short in any area. It is a nonstop entertaining ride which
leaves you on the edge of your seat wondering what will happen next. I
honestly, did not want this trilogy to come to an end. Compared to many
other franchises in the film industry this was definitely one of the
best in a league of their own. Recommended AAAA+++

******
4 May 2014
9
The Matrix is a 1999 American science fiction action film written and
directed by The Wachowski Brothers, starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence
Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, and Joe Pantoliano. It
depicts a dystopian future in which reality as perceived by most humans
is actually a simulated reality called "the Matrix", created by
sentient machines to subdue the human population, while their bodies'
heat and electrical activity are used as an energy source. Computer
programmer "Neo" learns this truth and is drawn into a rebellion
against the machines, which involves other people who have been freed
from the "dream world".The Matrix is known for popularizing a visual effect known as "bullet
time", in which the heightened perception of certain characters is
represented by allowing the action within a shot to progress in
slow-motion while the camera's viewpoint appears to move through the
scene at normal speed. The film is an example of the cyberpunk science
fiction genre.[4] It contains numerous references to philosophical and
religious ideas, and prominently pays homage to works such as Plato's
Allegory of the Cave, Jean Baudrillard's Simulacra and Simulation and
Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. The Wachowskis'
approach to action scenes drew upon their admiration for Japanese
animation and martial arts films, and the film's use of fight
choreographers and wire fu techniques from Hong Kong action cinema was
influential upon subsequent Hollywood action film productions.The Matrix was first released in the United States on March 31, 1999,
and grossed over $460 million worldwide. It was generally well-received
by critics, and won four Academy Awards as well as other accolades
including BAFTA Awards and Saturn Awards. Reviewers praised The Matrix
for its innovative visual effects, cinematography and its
entertainment. The film's premise was both criticized for being
derivative of earlier science fiction works, and praised for being
intriguing. The action also polarized critics, some describing it as
impressive, but others dismissing it as a trite distraction from an
interesting premise.Despite this, the film has since appeared in lists of the greatest
science fiction films, and in 2012, was added to the National Film
Registry for preservation. The success of the film led to the release
of two feature film sequels, both written and directed by the Wachowski
Brothers, The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix Revolutions. The Matrix
franchise was further expanded through the production of comic books,
video games, and animated short films in which the Wachowskis were
heavily involved.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cfFYzZ6w08g

******
26 April 2014
10
How do I use words to describe this movie ? Astonishing,
brilliant,magnificent and a true masterpiece. I usually do not watch
Sci- fi as I am not really interested in that sort of thing but my dad
kept telling me how great a movie it was and then my friends it was
destroying my head so I wanted to know what the fuss was so because I
have foxtel I could watch the Matrix for free so I did and I have to
admit it was brilliant acting but Keanu Reeves and Lawrence Fishburne .
Just astounding so Sci-fi lovers would go crazy for this and even if
you are not to familiar with the Sci-fi genre I recommend this as a
start. This movie has perfect cinematography and perfect directing I
loved the action it gave me pleasure watching the bad guys get shot
down but it was so cool how Neo is before a PC ( and drugs ) junkie who
finds out about the Matrix and I feel like they explained the Matrix in
full detail just about every aspect of it. Incredulous movie I have to
admit.

******
15 April 2014
10
I think this movie opened a new era in science fiction movies. I am not
older enough for saw science-fiction movies' beginning. But I can say
that without a doubt, science-fiction movies which are after made of
this movie, have something about Matrix. For explain my thought about
Matrix, I have to say something about directors. This movie is amazing
and it's mainspring is Wachowski brothers. They made a movie step by
step, they draw camera angles, they shoot movie like they want to be.
And Keanu Reeves... Oh... I think there are no word to explain this
man. I mean, his acting incredibly awesome. And his personality, what
he lived, what he have been living. He is just amazing. I know he
couldn't make movies like Matrix trilogy but it doesn't change
anything. Well, that is what I think. Whatever, if we return to the
main topic, this movie have best thing with science, fiction, special
effects, actors, story and etc. I am going to draw it fine. Matrix
trilogy have been my favorite movies and they will be forever.

******
1 September 2012
6
Looking back at the cyberpunk blockbuster, The Matrix is like a time
capsule and culmination of the science fiction movies of the 90's. It's
scenes and ideas have become iconic, and that makes it a classic,
although more because of its importance rather than it being a great
film in and of itself.The Matrix certainly has a technical brilliance that had a huge effect
on the way action movies were filmed. And unlike the deplorable shaky
cam aspects of the Bourne movies, the style of The Matrix at least made
the action movies that stole from it a little more visually pleasing.
The Wachowski brothers certainly created a world that was fascinating
to think about and entertaining to watch. While their movie ends up not
going quite as far as it could and should have, they made a visually
groundbreaking movie that incorporates a lot of interesting and complex
philosophical ideas, although the movie doesn't quite live up to the
ambitions it sets up for itself.Other movies from the 90's had similar plots to this one, most notably
Dark City, The Truman Show and Strange Days in the fact that the world
that we live in is far different that what it seems. The Matrix is, of
course, a computer generated world simulating the world as it was in
1999, when in reality the year is closer to 2199, with all humans
plugged into the Matrix, and used as batteries for sentient robots that
have taken over the world. That premise alone is enough to create a
good and interesting movie. The main character Neo, however, also
happens to be the Chosen one; the human that will end the war between
those humans that have woken up from the Matrix and the machines that
want them dead. The interesting thing about the characters that have
woken up, is that they can plug back into the Matrix when they need to.
And since they know they are in a virtual reality, they can manipulate
it to be great fighters and defy gravity and all that good stuff. Neo,
being the chosen one, is thought to be able to manipulate the Matrix
even more than the other enlightened ones.Keaunu Reeves plays Neo, in the same vein as Harrison Ford or Bruce
Willis, in that his acting is going out of his way to do not much at
all. This is fine enough, but since Reeves lacks the charisma that Ford
and Willis posses, it makes it hard to really care about him as a
character. However, Lawrence Fishborne as Morpheus, the wise and
powerful guru figure, is an excellent and enjoyable character. He gives
off the air of calmness and ease in a world that is controlled by fear
and chaos. Carrie-Anne Moss is also excellent as Trinity, the kick ass
chick that Neo inevitably falls in love with. And there is also Hugo
Weaving, who plays Agent Smith, a program designed to look like a human
inside the Matrix that is sent to kill all those humans that keep
trying to wake people up. He and the other agents have significant
abilities when it comes to altering the Matrix. They can dodge bullets
with ease, and can easily fight any human. Weaving is a highlight of
the movie, giving a memorable and vicious performance.One of the most interesting aspects of this movie is the idea of making
a choice. This is most notably shown in the scene where Neo has the
choice to take the blue pill, which will send him back to his bed and
he will never have to worry about what the Matrix is, or the red pill,
which is akin to some form of psychedelic. Neo takes the latter, and
becomes enlightened, waking up in a tub surrounded by other humans
plugged into the Matrix. The direct effect of taking the red pill is
ambiguous, and creates a layer to the movie that makes it both more
interesting and more fun. Choice shows up throughout the course of the
movie, especially with the Oracle, a wise old lady who lives in the
Matrix and predicted the coming of the Chosen one to end the war
between man and machine.Neo then meets the characters on the flying ship the Nebuchadnezzar,
including Morpheus and Trinity, as well as other characters that end up
being completely inconsequential considering they all die. The
character Cypher, played by Joe Pantoliano is probably the worst of
these characters. He ultimately betrays the crew of the ship to Agent
Smith because he wants to be plugged back into the Matrix. Pantoliano
plays the character as a total scumbag that is considerably unlikable.
This may be what the Wachowski brothers intended, but it doesn't make
for an interesting character. There is simply nothing to like about the
man; he is like a neighbor you avoid because he does too much cocaine.The Matrix has its faults, but it is an entertaining and important
movie. The fight scenes are a huge part of the experience, based on
those old school, gravity defying Kung Fu movies. The choreography of
the fights is exquisitely done by Yuen Woo-ping, who would later go on
to choreograph the fights in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and Quentin
Tarantino's Kill Bill. The use of slow motion and it's "bullet time"
effect, which allowed the characters to freeze mid air and look
exceedingly bad ass is another very cool trademark of the movie.This science fiction movie created an intriguing world and an exciting
story. Visually stunning and action packed, The Matrix is a fun movie
to watch, even though it doesn't live up to its own ambitions, and the
end becomes tangled in a web of convoluted silliness. It is none the
less an important and entertaining achievement.thatguythatlikesmovies.blogspot.com

******
15 November 2011
10
A computer hacker learns from mysterious rebels about the true nature
of his reality and his role in the war against its controllers.Sci-fi movies differ in nature. Mostly, nowadays, they are filled with
glorified special effects but nothing else to even it out. I'm looking
at you Transformers! Some have surprised us all, with their intelligent
uses and creating something for all of us. They combine the special
effects and acting, directing, and philosophies. I'm looking at you
Inception! But in 1999, something was different was the Matrix.
Although not as good as Inception, something was obscured behind it's
slo-mo action sequences. It deals with Buddhist philosophies. We are
living in a lie and their are two different realities. The other
reality is secreted but yet to be found; this sounding so much like the
Matrix. And it is. The brothers debut deals with everything you can
imagine; with possibly the best action scenes of all time. I've read
the bad reviews and all what people are complaining about is the acting
or the cheesiness. Please, this movie DOES have a little of both and at
times it has it's flaws; but if you look deep within (free your mind)
you might well see the most controversial movie of all time. Now
listen, I probably re-watched this film at least 10 times; each time
was a different experience. But just this last one I realized how much
of this movie deals with the outside. The first time was glorifying the
action scenes. The second time was glorifying it's intelligent plot.
You need to see the Matrix to find out what it is, it's power to suck
your soul into this parallel universe where everything is different.
The film questions life itself, varying the things we deal with at all
times. You need to ask yourself this question throughout the film: what
is life? What is it's breaking point? The answer will be reveled
through the movies course... Everything will seem a bit different than
what you shall see more clearly. I am praising this movie, for one, as
it is much different than others. It doesn't rely on it's best pal
SPECIAL EFFECTS. The Matrix will rely on you, yourself, and your mind
which leads me to the final question... Will you take the blue pill? Or
the red pill? 10/10.

******
13 November 2011
10
"Matrix" is all shiny, trendy, slow bullet sci-fi. Even has the
obligatory helicopter destruct scene. What's not to like? Must be why
it is in the "top 250" and why everyone loves it. Not really. NO, this
movie is a camouflaged parody of the modern sci-fi blockbuster.
Everything it has to tease and attract the Uberjaded movie addict does
not work in the end. That is the not so hidden message of the film. The W brothers started out with a faux-secret agenda and stuck with it
for the first movie. Their agenda is so simple, it needs no
explanation, no complicated deconstruction, no long winding road of
thought. Yes the MATRIX is not the real world. But the world of Zion, the world
of the Nebuchadnezzer, is not the REAL world either. It is just a
vehicle the W brothers gave you to hold onto. The mind wants to hold
on. Look beyond Zion, beyond the Matrix, beyond Neo. Why does Neo wake
up so many times in this movie? Because he is methodically learning
that each world he encounters is a dream. They are all Maya. When Neo
believes he can alter reality in any way desired with his mind alone
that is also a trick. Remember, this is the clueless and dazed Keanu
Reeves acting. It is not his mind he is using, but rather his faith.
Doesn't have to be faith in Jesus or God or Trinity per se, just faith
in himSELF as the ultimate reality. IF most people believed they had
this power, our society would dissolve and become reformatted into a
friendlier and freer place. It's movies like the Matrix that actually
foment such freedom. This movie has a message which has nothing in
common with "Inception" or any of the copycat escapist drivel that it
has spawned. It is one of the best movies ever made and reminds me of
"Cast Away" and "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind", all of them a
celebration of the power of the Self.As for the W brothers, it is hard to blame them for straying away in
the sequels, it is just human nature to want MORE. That's why the
sequels, which should not have been made, are well recognized as big
box office rip offs.

******
9 November 2011
8
The Wachowski brothers are starting to gain their own space in the
American Cinema. The Matrix was their first big hit. The first of this
very successful trilogy incorporates one of the biggest moments of 1999
cinema has offered. Would you take the blue pill, or the red one? That
applies to almost every second of our life, and whether you want it or
not, choosing between the comfort of the easy way, keeping your mind
away from the brutality of the cold knowledge or the opposite one. Easy
to say, bloody hard to materialise. If you don't agree, you've taken
the blue pill way to many times. Keanu Reeves is good, as Laurence
Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss and Hugo Weaving. I won't analyse the
fighting or the incredibly hot chick with amazing skills in fighting
that we can presumes since the beginning that will end up in love with
the main character, that was obviously included for selling, and
obviously resulted. Apart from that, is amazing how you find out great
deep thoughts in common movies such as The Matrix, and the pills scene
is not the only one, the movie as a great connection with the last year
Crhis Nolan hit Inception, as both ask what makes reality more real
than everything else that we assume not to be. I don't agree very much
Morpheus point of defining reality though, but the idea remains. 8/10

******
17 October 2011
6
The Matrix came out and it became the latest "In" movie and justifiably
so. Its exciting, it has a fantastic memorable storyline and the
special effects were revolution but......why cast Keanu.Fine the ladies dig him but nobody for a second believes that this dude
can act so why cast him in such a role, Seagal could have done a better
job and he is officially an oak tree.Wooden acting on the leads behalf aside the performances are solid,
especially that of Agent Smith who steals the entire film.Sadly years later when you look at the film it hasn't really aged well,
partially I'm sure due to the overwhelming hype that it received and
partially because now people are asking the very same question I asked
above.....why Keanu? Overall I cant deny The Matrix is a very memorable
film that broke boundaries and has created more spoofs than any other.
So check it out if you haven't already, alas the sequels do not live up
to this but as a stand alone movie The Matrix is a tour de force of
excitement and originality.

******
31 January 2011
10
One of my favorite films. I remember back in 1999, i was fed up with
sci-fi super hero movies. I disliked them. Then a friend told me "You
MUST watch the Matrix", it isn't just a sci-fi movie, its something
more! I was negative about it. He convinced me to watch it with him.
And i was so bored in the beginning... OK a nicely directed action
movie... and after a while, it started to reveal me what i am about to
see. I have watched this movie since then, more than 58 times. I am not
joking. I really loved it. Do i want to watch this movie again? No.
After 58 times, i can say that i am satisfied. It's not a flawless
film. But it is a perfect masterpiece with lots of hidden messages.
Surely 10/10.

******
17 December 2010
5
I know there are a lot of people who have seen this film and even the
sequels. But this is the first time I've paid attention to this
franchise. Though it is popular, The Matrix failed to deliver good
performances and great fighting scenes. The story is new in its genre
and year. The Matrix was created in 1999, which is similar to 2010's
Inception, where the world is not the world itself anymore. There are
two worlds, The Matrix and the actual world. The Matrix is where most
people live in and the actual world is only for the ones that rebelled.
As refreshingly new the plot is, the writers just had to put in some
clichés in the film: the protagonist did not die at the end, the bad
guys died, some romance, and badass action scenes. Well, I guess that's
what all movies have nowadays. But the film have so many flaws in it
like the acting, it is the worse ensembled cast I've seen in years. The
actual writing isn't bad but the way the actors delivered the lines are
just unpleasant. Another flaw is the fighting scenes. I first thought
it was because they were moving too fast and that was the point. But as
it progresses, the fighting scenes are just cheap! The Matrix offers a
new element to its genre and has really great visual effects but failed
to deliver on its performances which made the film dropped.

******
16 June 2010
5
the matrix is a movie that has a story that is not possible. so before
one sits to watch the movie. its better that they free their minds. do
not think too deep. the movie has a computer based - machine based
concept. the concept is not utilized to full extent. the action scenes
drives the movie. the visual effects and the training scenes are top
notch. so when one decides that matrix is a imaginary movie. definitely
it is . so just watch the movie for action sequences and
cinematography. cast wise performance neo ( keanu reeves ) is good and
suitable. lawrence fishburne ( morpheus ) and carrie anne moss (trinity
) are good enough. rest all did a perfect job. final verdict: see and
forget it.

******
21 May 2010
7
First I will say, if you are not into discussing deep intellectual
concepts in film, my review will likely not be your cup of tea.
Everyone else, please read on.I saw this movie when it first came out in theaters. I liked the theme
of control that resonated throughout the plot--being controlled, at
first not knowing it, then waking up to it and ultimately "raging
against" such control.I was not taken in so much by the special effects or fight scenes.
While I was not necessarily turned off by them either, I did feel they
were "additional elements only" and that the core meaning of the movie
strives to go much deeper.Neo is the hero because he got beyond the control mechanisms in place
which deceive and thus imprison. No other human could do it, all
others...Morpheus, Trinity, etc...even after their eyes were awakened
to what the Matrix was, could not act outside the perimeters of this
system. Neo, through his journey of self-discovery breaks beyond the
barriers of human perception that defined the containers of this
system. He was able to do this because a human was originally
programmed into the Matrix, as explained by Morpheus to Neo. So the
idea that human perception had helped construct the Matrix opened the
possibility that human perception could also be liberated from the
Matrix by altering the rules that governed it.We all long to break free of something, and I think that is why this
movie resonated on a subconscious level with many people. I would
imagine those who said they loved this film very well may have loved
the concept of freewill itself. Does it exist and can we access it? How
is it accessed? Is it a journey of our inner self? Neo takes such an
inner journey does he not?The answer is clear, he does. Because this is how he transcends the
Matrix of which others, those awakened to it and those still plugged
in, could not do. And it all came down to inner belief, the exercising
of freewill. Man's freewill. The idea that external reality, whether
physical or virtual reality, does not control us. We define ourselves
by thought. And thought itself alters reality, not the other way
around.I really feel this is what the Wachowski brothers were seeking to
express. I do not feel they made this movie for CGI effects or to make
an action film that would be a blockbuster hit as some reviews have
suggested. I do feel they aimed at a deeper undercurrent on the nature
of our existence, the nature of reality. I do not, however, think they
were entirely successful in their attempt which is why I gave the film
7 out of 10.Here is what I feel is detracting from the movie: The idea of combining
deep philosophical interjection with typical Hollywood portrayals is
bound to create a struggle between the two, which it does, and one
usually has to give way for the other. Such as, the "coolness" or
attempt at coolness (ie leather outfits, guns, sunglasses, martial arts
sequences set to hip soundtracks) detract from the intellectual
concepts being developed. Such obvious referencing takes the audience
in a different direction, to more mundane and traveled territory, yet
underneath this (buried in the rubble of predictability) is the highly
commendable urge to denounce this very homogeneity and be original. But
to be original, you have to go all the way. Once you reference the
commonplace, the known and well-accommodated approaches, you undervalue
what is fresh and new by the sheer momentum of agreed upon consensus
(Hollywood themes) that puts an end to the intellectual exploration
that could have arisen. That is, familiarity breeds a lack of
curiosity.What WAS fresh and new was at the end of the film when Neo was able to
stop agent Smith's bullets by "intending to". That was the beauty of
this hero. He exercised his own freewill and thus altered his own
reality without resorting to fists and guns in order to overpower the
control mechanisms.Yet the problem continues, in the follow-up sequels of the Trilogy.
Here we see Neo back to fighting agent Smith with his fists and guns
again. So what happened to his ability to "intend" beyond the Matrix?
It seems it is suggested (by the Wachowski brothers) that as Neo
intended beyond the Matrix, agent Smith in turn also became able to
transcend his own limitations. The idea that the challenger is
continually challenged by his opponent, so that when the challenger
gets stronger, so too does his opponent.The final in the Trilogy did have the proper ending, in keeping with
this intellectual theme of freewill and how to achieve it. It has to do
with compassion (Neo's compassion) and the will to surrender the NEED
to control. So Neo reached this epoch in his journey (final fight scene
with agent Smith). He ceased to fight back, and in doing so he became
pure essence (unreachable to the controlling mechanisms). OK, message
received loud and clear...or was it?I think many who saw the Matrix, or the entire the Trilogy for that
matter, saw the leather and guns and fight sequences without being
fully aware of the undercurrent of concepts. Well, I guess if that's
what they went to see, then they got what they were seeking and no harm
in that. Still, I think less focus on "coolness" by the Wachowski
Brothers would have helped the esoteric concepts in the film emerge,
but may have in turn drawn a smaller audience. We'll never know.Either way, I liked the Matrix and the way the Trilogy was ended. And
Keanu Reeves played the role of Neo perfectly. A cross between Buddha
and Genghis Khan, conveying that in the end, it is the surrendering of
control(Buddhist aspect)that frees one from the Matrix.

******
19 November 2009
10
"The Matrix" is an absolutely awesome movie and like something I had
never seen before. It is important to think of this film as one on it's
own as opposed to part of a trilogy, since the two sequels were garbage
compared to this.The idea for this movie was absolutely incredible. I have no idea how
the writers thought up such an interesting, unique plot. Everything
just made so much sense and aligned perfectly. The action was very awesome as well. It was reality bending, and
beautifully performed. After watching this in the theater for the first
time I jumped on my trampoline for hours, pretending in my mind that I
was doing some of the kicks and fighting. There is so much from that movie that was, and still is parodied in pop
culture; it really is remarkable.If there is one action movie to watch this may very well be it. It's a
must watch for everyone.

******
14 November 2009
10
With The Matrix having already received 3294 comments and 342,457 votes
(with an average rating of 8.7), the last thing IMDb needs is another
rambling review from an avid fan describing in precise detail why this
film is such a revelation in terms of action and sci-fi cinema.What I will say is that the film is a stroke of genius that taps into
the subconscious belief that our reality is not all it seems to be and
mines it for all it's worth, developing a philosophical mythos of
biblical proportions in the process, whilst introducing technical and
directorial innovations that will be mimicked for years to come.It also features some kick-ass fight scenes (with jaw-dropping
choreography by HK legend Yuen Woo Ping), a superb metal and techno
soundtrack, and the awesome sight of Carrie Ann Moss almost completely
clad in black PVC (or is it rubber? Oh, who cares... it looks
great!!!).In short: with The Matrix, the Wachowski Brothers have given sci-fi
fans one of the finest films of the genre ever.What a shame they had to go and make those sequels!

******
25 April 2009
6
I remember seeing the posters for the Matrix plastered all over the
place in the summer of 1999. It looked like just another action
movie... and after seeing it, it IS really, but is just a little bit
better than most mainstream action films.Keanu Reeves is now Neo- every role he stars in is based on his icy
soulless Neo character.One of the reasons I hate the Matrix is because it rips off a lot of
animes instead of being influenced by them (The most obvious is Ghost
In The Shell and Golgo 13). The other is that between 1999-2004, it was
the sworn god of all goth dickwads on the face of the planet.All the actors in this movie, Reeves, Fishburne, the woman who plays
Trinity, all of em I can't stand now, just because of all the hyperbole
that was cemented into our heads to go see this film even if you've
just been diagnosed with terminal cancer.If ever I watch this movie, it's to remind me of the year 1999 and NOT
to enjoy the brilliance of it, if there is any.

******
1 January 2009
9
Insomniac computer hacker Keanu Reeves (as Thomas "Neo" Anderson )
lives a common and interesting life. Hugo Weaving (as Agent Smith)
tells him, "You've been living two lives. In one life, you're Thomas A.
Anderson, program writer for a respectable software company. You have a
social security number, pay your taxes, and you help your landlady
carry out her garbage. The other life is lived in computers, where you
go by the hacker alias 'Neo' and are guilty of virtually every computer
crime we have a law for. One of these lives has a future, and one of
them does not." That's a good description. Everything changes for Mr. Reeves when he is contacted by the
intriguingly prophetic Laurence Fishburne (as Morpheus), through
seemingly supernatural leather lass Carrie-Anne Moss (as Trinity). Mr.
Fishburne believes Reeves just may be "The One". Mr. Weaving captures
Reeves, and tells him Fishburne is the most dangerous man alive. Reeves
instinctively distrusts Weaving and, with Ms. Moss' assistance escapes
from him. Them, Reeves joins falls Through the Looking Glass, where he
learns about and dreams, reality, and imagination, from the Wachowski
brothers."Unfortunately, nobody can be told what 'The Matrix' is. You have to
see it for yourself." I watched it with great curiosity to see what would happen next...A stunning audio-visual achievement.********* The Matrix (1999) Larry & Andy Wachowski ~ Keanu Reeves,
Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving

******
13 February 2008
5
The Matrix is not for everyone. Some love it, some hate it and some
even dress up as Neo and Trinity and walk out in public. I am one of
those people who don't care about the Matrix and thinks its nothing
special.What is the Matrix? Well it was a turning point in CGI and a good
Sci-Fi film. It is at times very funny as we watch Hugo Weaving saying"
Mr Anderson" really slow or watching Keanu Reeves signing come here
while in a fight. This may be best Matrix but i am no fan of the Matrix. I found it to be
a mess of a trilogy.As you can tell i am not a big fan of the Matrix movies but there are
good things. There are OK fights and good special effects. The story is
OK also.I don't recommend it. But there is a chance you will like it.5/10

******
29 June 2007
9
(Karthik Narayan) In the world of computers, there is an abbreviation 
WYSIWYG  What You See Is What You Get! The Matrix is a movie based on
computer programs, viruses and Artificial Intelligence  after watching
this movie I did a little jig of my own  WYBIWYA  What You Believe Is
What You Are. In Latin (and Greek, perhaps??)  Cogito, ergo sum (I
think, therefore I am).The Matrix has the perfect blend of everything  action, mystery,
suspense and a little romance of sorts thrown in at the end. And there
are various versions of thrilling moments in the movie  in the
beginning where you are not supposed to understand anything; the middle
where you are supposed to begin understanding the turn of events but
your mind refuses to believe what you see; and finally the end where
you can't understand the "reality" but like it anyway. One thing holds
you to your seat - the adrenaline never stops pumping.The moments of truth hit you hard as you progress from one scene to
another and sooner or later, you realize you are looking at a
philosophy strongly etched in principles of fate, Good vs Evil and the
eternal search and battle for belief, faith, freedom and justice.Keanu Reaves as Neo is too good  the bewildered look on his face match
ours as nothing really materializes in his head and his emotions on
screen look very "real" even though it's supposed to be virtual (get
it?). Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus is the coolest dude around and the
way he carries himself in the movie makes it come alive. Andy and Larry
Wachowski have outdone themselves in the Direction of this movie (duh)
 easily their best work and the one which skyrocketed them to the
Hollywood walk of fame.Carrie-Ann Moss as Trinity has a glossy look on her face as though she
has been transformed into some machine, but redeems herself in the
action scenes where she looks stunning. If looks could kill (and looks
do kill)  she would be the perfect hostess for that idiom for this
movie. And what can I say about the Agent! If all villains could look
this smart, I would cheer for them any-day  but yes, the last hurrah
is always for the hero in any movie, and so I give in.Action-oriented, adventurous, eye-catching stunts, visually stimulating
camera-work (especially the scenes in the rain) mind-boggling fight
scenes and awesome display of dialogue delivery make the Matrix easily
one of the best movies of the century. It most certainly features in my
best movies for all time to come.

******
21 May 2007
7
In the near future, a computer hacker named Neo discovers that all life
on Earth may be nothing more than an elaborate facade created by a
malevolent cyber-intelligence, for the purpose of placating us while
our life essence is "farmed" to fuel the Matrix's campaign of
domination in the "real" world. He joins like-minded Rebel warriors
Morpheus and Trinity in their struggle to overthrow the Matrix.I finally got to see this film. Yeah, I'm 11 years late. What can I
say? Well, although the IMDb rating for this film is considerably high
(never trust their rating system), this film is more mediocre than one
of the best films ever made.This film has a really good plot, which shows you how much time these
filmmakers brainstormed it. It's just so complex that you want to be
more challenged by the plot than you already know. You want more
surprises and all of that but you don't.It doesn't bring down some of the best visual effects and action
sequences in the film. They are all breathtaking with some memorable
scenes I've seen spoofed. The acting by Keanu Reeves, Laurence
Fishburne, and Carrie-Anne Moss are all good.If you're expecting a big masterpiece, you might (or you might be a
fan), but for me, it wasn't all that great as people said it was. Great
plot, great action, great visual effects, but its plot falls short.

******
15 November 2006
9
The film is science fiction. We know every thing about this. The
principle is simple. What we think is reality, real life, is a world of
flesh and bone that is entirely controlled by some matrix, some
entirely mechanical principle and intelligence. Human beings are
nothing but some species of mammals that are raised like cattle but
they have no freedom, no control over their life, nothing at all, not
even the freedom to breathe that can be denied any time without any
possible protest. Against this totally inhuman world there is a
resistance, a resistance of super machines that are controlled by men,
of super heroes and supermen who are faster than the lightning, and
even the light itself, not a new species of human beings, just the good
old stock that modern life and consumerism had killed. They are ready
to sacrifice everything for the freedom of their human brothers and
sisters. To achieve this they have special powers that have been worked
into them through some mechanical procedure and mechanical device. They
are human beings in feelings and courage made machine in power and
velocity. Then there must be transportation channels between this
resistance and the real world controlled by the machines. These
transportation avenues are the information highways of the telephone
and computers, in other words the Internet. And that's where the film
becomes more interesting. We do not know after a while where real
reality is and where virtual reality starts and ends. We have to
believe that we can retain in real reality some of the capabilities we
have in virtual reality, and in virtual reality some of the human
sentiments and feelings we can only experience in real reality. Then
the film becomes an imbroglio of various realities that are so
intertwined and interlaced that we do not know any more which one has
spliced into the other and which one has been spliced onto another. If
you get lost in this interwoven splicing, it is the proof that this
film is disquieting and should be shown to all kids in the world for
them to maybe realize that the world is not what it looks like nor life
what it tastes or smells like. It may stink at times, and yet that
stench is just the beauty of life because if there were not bad smells
we would not even know what a perfume may be.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of
Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne

******
25 July 2005
6
This movie promises us 2001: A Space Odyssey, but gives us Shootout at
the OK Corral.This is a movie for teenagers and people who like teenagers and people
who want to be teenagers. Check the message board: it's teenagers
arguing about the worth of this movie, from a pool where both ends are
shallow.I wish Keanu Reeves and L. Fishburne all the good fortune in the world,
but acting at this level will wash them up before they're fifty.This movie is all special effects and razzle-dazzle. There's just
nothing to it. Of course, it's listed very high on this site's list of
great movies, because there are so many young kids here voting on
movies.My indictment of this movie and its sequels is similar to my indictment
of this web site - it was a good idea; it's still a good idea; but it
just doesn't deliver. It's certainly not the fault of this site that
most of the people writing are too young to be on their own in the
world, but I hate that IMDb panders to them, much the same way that I
hate how these movies pander to them.Yes, they're the ones who go to the movies more than anyone else. It's
just a plain fact.And yes, the Academy Awards are a joke. Put all of this together, along
with our Ratings System, and you have the reason that American movies
that could be Great, are not.

******
3 June 2005
7
The Matrix (1999)3 out of 4 starsThe one thing with this movie is that it is very similar to Dark City.
But Dark City is amazingly better. This one is about to be just as good
as Dark City, but instead of plot, they made it into action. Dark City
only has two action sequences. The action is very stylized and better
than most though. Despite not being my favorite it blew my mind. I
believe that it should have taken the path of Dark City and ended it
with something conclusive. I still want to see the sequels. Its a darn
shame that it went with the style over substance at the end.79%

******
3 March 2005
10
This is the ultimate of ultimate scifi movies! Here you got the hero
named Neo, a computer hacker who is tracked down by a relentless
villain named Smith. The scary part when Smith put this "bug" that
entered Neo's navel, and the team had to track it and flush him out.
Then you have this leader named Morpheus(Fishburne) who teaches Neo the
ways of the warrior. I liked the training scene where Morpheus and Neo learn Wing-chun and
the way they defy gravity was just awesome. And the speed, it's just
phenomenal, I'm at complete loss of words for that. I liked the part
where Neo evades the bullets being fired by Smith. And the way Smith
moved was just unbelievable.The fighting scene is the best part of the movie, and the reason why I
liked it is because it's not your typical scifi movie you'll ever see.
With a great cast like that who wants to make changes? Your only quest
is to find out what is The Matrix? 5 STARS!

******
9 February 2005
5
"The Matrix" is considered to be a great movie and one of the best
scifi actions ever made. This is true, but only to some degree. The
film has really fascinating visual effects and everything in it has
cool look - the good guys, the bad guys, the action scenes, the strange
Matrix-thing, the hellish future. It is also true that the movie was
quite original and not an ordinary Terminator rip-off. That said, the
film has some major flaws. Individually, neither Neo, nor Trinity were
irritating, but as a couple they were extremely frustrating. The whole
love story was annoying and pathetic and in the end of the movie I
really hated all about it. The other big failure was the villain. Agent
Smith was a joke, a machine who laughs evilly and talks about the
problems of humanity is the cheesiest idea ever to be created. Why
Terminators are scary? Because they act like robots. Smith is a clown.
So my overall opinion of the film is low and I gave it 5 rating only
because of the good action scenes and visual effects. I haven't watch
the sequels and I don't plan to.

******
24 January 2005
6
I'm afraid I have only to reiterate what others have already said on
here - 'The Matrix' is hugely overrated. I, like others, did enjoy it
for its sheer escapism, sense of adventure and regular conventions of
good vs. evil. There is a great deal to admire in it - the stylistic
qualities, good soundtrack, and of course special effects. The fight
scenes - to begin with - are fairly mind-blowing, but throughout the 3
films as a whole there are far too many of an almost identical nature.
It seems the choreographers ran out of different moves & poses.Onto the less good - as I agree with others, the utterly pretentious
and convoluted 'morals' or 'underlying themes' of the film. It seems
like just another of a particular ilk, that seeks to confuse the viewer
as much as possible, to hide the fact that there is very little
intelligent substance in there. As others have noticed, the basic
philosophy running through the 3 films has been expressed many times
before, only without the needless drivel that is heard in 'The Matrix'.
This becomes more apparent in the second film, I must admit, but what
IS there from the very beginning, and what annoys me most, is the
OVER-CONSCIOUS nature of the film as a whole. It appears set up, from
the first, that 'this is going to be a landmark film' - there is a
sense of over-importance and worthiness which is, frankly,
unconvincing.Not only this, but the dialogue is cliché-ridden, some of it reminding
me distinctly of old Bond villain lines, recycled and delivered as if
Shakespearian quotes; "I will enjoy watching you die" etc. Unlike
others, I found Hugo Weaving's performance one of the weakest. The best
way to describe it, in a word, is over-acting, and possible one of the
worst accents in movie history. I will give credit to Joe Pantoliano,
and most of the cast are reasonably likable, but the characters
themselves are weak to say the least, and as others have commented the
love story is both shallow and superfluous to the plot.In short, I was disappointed with this film as I went into it with an
open mind and was ready to enjoy it, from what I had heard from others.
However, it fails to deliver on many levels and the over-complicity of
the 'philosophy' ruins what enjoyment could have been had from a pretty
good and interesting premise. On a final note, I would have to say that
the dark glasses - not given a purpose in the film, as far as I can
tell - are the ultimate example of what this film really succeeds in:
IMAGE. Apart from that, it all seemed rather wasted. I'll give the
first instalment of the trilogy 6/10, for pure entertainment value!

******
21 December 2004
8
When The Matrix came out I was only twelve years old. Like many, I was
utterly shocked by how well the Wachowski brothers had made the movie.
From the editing to the music to the costumes this movie is just great
the whole time. Sure, Neo doesn't have the world's best actor playing
him but he still gets the point across. Also, I loved the philosophical
view of the movie: "The One", "Trinity", and "Zion" make it easy to see
the intended message. Again, like many I was disappointed slightly by
the subsequent Matrix movies but that does not take away any of the
power that The Matrix has to offer. I give it eight stars only because
I will never give a ten (no movie is perfect, some people should learn
this) and not a nine because some of the acting is, well, blah. I love
all three Matrix movies, but there is no doubt that this one is the
best.

******
17 September 2004
6

When I first saw this movie it wasn't the finished version, they hadn't
even added all of the music yet. And I thought it was much better that
way . The lousy music just destroys too much of the feeling in the
movie.Apart from the music, this movie is pretty good for being a big budget
movie. The background story is well thought out and doesn't have many
holes in it, partly thanks to the fact that they leave most of the
missing pieces untouched. But the actual story isn't that well written.
It just goes along with the standard action movie pattern. Perhaps that
was a trick to try to sell it to a broader audience, but it just drains
the substance out of the movie. The characters in the movie lacks any
kind of personality, which makes it uninteresting as an action movie.
It also makes the love story hard to believe. I'm left without any kind
of emotions towards these people, and that makes it useless as an
action movie. You need to be able to relate to the characters in some
way to be worried if they'll survive or not. And when Trinity tells Neo
that she loves him I just though "What? you have just met and barely
spoken to each other. Besides, he's a really boring guy." it takes a
whole lot to be in love with someone that deeply and it just doesn't
seem reasonable that she love him. And even if that was true, why would
he automatically love her back? That kind of cheap solutions just makes
me sick. Why not spend a few nights to figure out a reasonable
explanation and make the movie believable? Oh wait, we need a love
story so the girls we can sell the movie to the girls as well.The special effects were interesting at the time but after a while they
just bores you. The actions scenes aren't very exciting, partly due to
the fact I described above, but also due to the lack of creativity. If
they would have made the same scenes with the knowledge they have today
I bet they could have made them a lot better.The acting in this movie is poor. But that's understandable, they are
pretty good actors but the characters they play have no personality to
work with. Besides, they have to care about all the technical stuff as
well. I think it would be hard for any actor to play good with this
kind of script in this kind of environment.So is the movie any good? Well, the idea of a fake world isn't new but
it develops it a bit further and it's visualizing it in a pretty good
way. So as a sci-fi film it's actually a good one. But as an action
film it's below average. But I'd take Donnie Darko or Cube over Matrix
as a Sci-Fi film any day, because it's better written and more thought
provocative. And I'd take Commando or The Rock over Matrix as an action
movie any day, because they are actually entertaining.It's not a bad movie however, and it's an important part of movie
history, so if you haven't seen it you probably should. But it's no
masterpiece that's for sure. Not all movies has to be that anyway.


******
25 March 2004
10

The immagination, the ingenuity that took the "brother" to write and
direct
such an extraordinary movie makes me happy i was born in this era so i
could
see it.
The matrix is simply the best movie of all.
The cast and crew of the movie is magnificent.
I'm glad to see a movie that does not take the audience as an object that
can not think for them selfs.
The matrix makes you think, make go home and simply think of all the
possibility of what is this that we call living. The best movie i have
ever
seen.

******
30 September 2003
6

People who hold the Matrix's schtick as near-religious belief should read
a
book once in a while and broaden their cultural horizons a little more;
the
fact is, the only thing the Matrix has managed to do is steal ideas from
countless other genres (mostly from anime and Hong Kong 'blood operas'),
infuse them with superficial philosophical crap that would make a high
school goth blogger blush and blend it all perfectly into one slick,
hyperactive and CGI-laden package. The Wachowski's should pat themselves
on
the back: the emperor has no clothes and no one seems to have noticed.
These
glaring flaws are even more apparent in the second installment of the
series, where the prodigal brothers finally show us that the only thing
they
can do is retread the same old ground.Entertaining? Sure; the effects are impressive and the pace never really
slows down, even in spite of Mr. Reeve's wooden (to put it mildly) acting.
But the fact that this rip-off of Asian culture and post-modern angst is
scored higher than movies like A Clockwork Orange or Blade Runner is
ludicrous.

******
1 August 2003
5

I have seen The Matrix in full. I have considered it in my head. I have
now
come to the conclusion that the version everybody else has been watching
is
different to mine, as I can see no merit in the movie whatsoever. The dull
characters live in a bland, grey hued universe populated by other dull
characters, fighting for a cause that I don't understand and that I don't
care for. Along the way they get into supposedly 'cool' kung fu and
gunfights all in slow motion. The only relief from the relentless boredom
of
this emotionless juggernaut is Hugo Weaving's Agent Smith, a character
whose
blandness is intentional and even amusing. In the case of the other
characters, their blandness is unintentional and unamusing. The only
people
who can possibly enjoy and understand this movie in full are the Wachowski
brothers.

******
22 July 2003
5

THE MATRIX / Starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne
Moss
/ Directed by Andy and Larry Wachowski / Written by Andy and Larry
Wachowski
/ Rated R / **The Matrix has now garnered it's own cult of teenagers and young adults
all
over the world. I admit that only discovering this little movie only
months
before the sequel, The Matrix Reloaded was due to come out. I rented the
DVD
not knowing what to expect. I knew the storyline but nothing too deep
other
than the most basic of information. I sat through the film's 136 minute
running time, watching carefully. After the movie, I took the DVD out of
my
player, put it in it's case and walked out the door, remembering
absolutely
nothing. Ouch.The Matrix is a science fiction tale of a computer program writer called
Thomas Anderson AKA Neo (Keanu Reeves), who learns from a band of rebels
that the world he lives in is a digital simulation. The world he sees, the
world we see is in fact a virtual reality created by an entire race of
machines to keep humans under control and giving those machines energy for
them to survive. After learning the truth from the mysterious man known as
Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) and leather-clad, ass-kicker Trinity
(Carrie-Anne Moss), Neo is released from the virtual prison known as the
Matrix and finally witnesses the real world. But there's something more to
Neo than meets the eye: Is he possibly the One, the only person in all of
mankind that can destroy the Matrix and free the human race? The answer?
Probably.The main source of entertainment in this movie are the fight scenes, which
zip by like a six-year-old having a sugar rush. I admit that these fight
scenes are spectacular, crafted with the most seamless special effects I
have ever seen. There is a particularly impressive hand-to-hand fight
between Keanu Reeves and Australian actor Hugo Weaving (Lord of the Rings)
in a subway and even a more impressive one between Reeves and Laurence
Fishburne in the first hour of the film, taking place in an old dojo. It
was
hard to believe that Keanu performed all of his fight scenes himself, or
that he had the brains to remember the moves! Sure, pretty-looking fight
scenes are abound in this film but that's where my investment in this film
stopped dead.The Matrix's fatal flaw is that there is not one likable or colorful
character in all of the film's bloated 136 minutes. The only character
that
comes even remotely close to being likable is Carrie-Anne Moss' Trinity.
All
other characters are ultimately forgettable and not really worth caring
about. Some characters just drove me out of my mind! I found most of the
crew of the Nebachanezzar annoying and pointless. What's worse is that
most
of them have the worst dialogue of the whole movie. "Digital pimp hard at
work!" Are the Wachowski's eighteen or something? I know this movie is
marketed to teenagers as something "cool". In fact, I'm only fifteen years
old and I didn't think the movie was all that "cool". Instead of "cool" I
found it "cliched", "silly" and "lame". I admit, Keanu Reeves' character
was
decent and somewhat interesting considering the fact he didn't look like
he
could figure out what everyone is saying. You know a main character is not
worthing giving a damn about when everyone around him must constantly
explain things to him, often slowly. Actually, I found the whole movie to
merely being an "introduction" to this concept. There WAS no
story.But alas, there is a saving grace and that is the new world unraveling
before our very eyes, often with the most spectacular visual effects.
They're not much of filmmakers, but the Wachowski's are certainly digital
wizards, able to magically create dreams out of the latest of technology.
The CGI used in the "real world" is particularly impressive, probably more
impressive than most things out of that "other" big-budget release of
1999,
called a little something like Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace.
But
I found the Phantom Menace much more entertaining! Like Star Wars, there
is
never really a moment in this movie that special effects are not used.
Sure,
these special effects are great to look at, but a movie should not be
reliant on special effects. That's why most indie films end up being some
of
the best movies of all time. They are about writing, directing and acting.
Films like The Matrix are only made to show out the latest technology. Now
make no mistake, I didn't watch this film expecting it to take home the
Best
Picture award from the Academy, but that's doesn't stop it from being
disappointing.Many people claim this film for being "deep" yet I see nothing "deep"
about
it at all. "There is no spoon." Yeah, I already remember Laurence
Fishburne's character blabbing about that earlier in the film for immense
amounts of time. And I hear Reloaded is just one big Philosophy 101
lesson!
The philosophy found in this movie I think is trying to be subtle but in
the
end simply bogs the film down. I commend the Wachowskis for trying to take
action films to another level, but maybe that just won't ever happen. The
only movie that ever actually came close to being something more was
1991's
Terminator 2: Judgement Day, which happens to be a much better movie than
The Matrix, action film or not. And don't give me that "You just didn't
understand it!" crap, because I understood the whole thing perfectly and
believe me, there is nothing special about it.I think the real thing that made The Matrix loved by millions of viewers
is
that it glorifies computer geeks and school nerds. The real problem with
me
is that I'm neither of those things. I guess that's why it never touched
me,
or the story just never moved me. Sure the action scenes are spectacular
and
the special effects are great to look at, but in my opinion, special
effects
should not drive the story. It should be the other way around. Combine
that
with one-dimensional characters and uninspired dialogue, there is nothing
here to entertain me. A movie can be the greatest movie of all time but if
it doesn't entertain, it does nothing for me. That's exactly the
definition
I would give The Matrix. 

******
19 May 2003
6

The Matrix is not a masterpiece, despite the huge number of people voting it
10/10. The concept is interesting, but the plot has too many teen-minded
moments, resulting childish at times. This problem is usually bad for
movies, because it makes them age bad with time.The Matrix is a worth of mention sci-fi movie, but has no contributions
enough to be deeply analyzed and commented through monographs in Philosophy
Schools, Art Schools, Architecture Schools, etc...The two things I liked most are:-The F/X. They're quite good. The 3D deciphering scene, as well as the
bullets slow-motion are perhaps the most interesting of
all.-The brief romantic subplot. It's too brief, too insufficient, but at least
made the movie a little less Quake-minded and somewhat more
adult.I voted it 6/10.I'd strongly recommend "The Thirteenth Floor" (1999, Josef Rusnak) for
anybody who wishes to really feel delighted with a plot and concept similar
to The Matrix, but far more elaborate, with more drama, more interesting
cybernetic twists, more adult, and greater care in the details (click on my
name for reading my review).


******
10 May 2003
5

Chihiro_Sen15's Rating: 6.5 out of 10There's much hype among a little 1999 film called "The Matrix" a movie
which
I only discovered this year, a little before the release of the much
anticipated (much overhyped) sequel "The Matrix Reloaded". I don't why I
waited so long to see this movie. I just never got the time or just
wasn't
interested enough to see it. But I just kept seeing advertisements for
"Reloaded": All of the soda and beer ads, the posters, the extremely
good-looking Carrie Anne Moss. I had to check the first one out! I
finally
rented it on DVD from Blockbuster, and after taking out the disc, I came
to
the conclusion that the "Matrix" was one of the most overrated movies of
all
time. But that never stopped it from being entertaining."The Matrix" tells of Thomas Anderson (Keanu Reeves), a computer
programmer
by day and a hacker by night by the name of "Neo". But by having a
mysterious encounter between peculiar strangers Morpheus (Lawrence
Fishburne) and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss), Neo learns that the world is
not
what it seems to be. Him and all the other humans are slaves in the
"Matrix", a computer program deluding the humans from the "real" world.
After being "unplugged", Neo joins with Morpheus and Trinity to fight
against the machine army threatening to destroy "Zion", the last human
city
of the real world, and to free the rest of the humans from the Matrix
while
taking on Smith (Hugo Weaving) and the other agents."The Matrix" does have a few ideas, but Phillip K. Dick wrote better than
this. The dialogue is banal and the movie is constantly explaining the
whole
explanation to the audience. "The Matrix" is a very, very simplistic
premise
but the film is able to expand past it's small idea into an over-wrought
world laden down with special effects. All of the characters have no
depth
in them at all and are treated like special effects like the rest of the
film! What begins as a fairly interesting plot turns into a video game
with
cardboard characters and fancy visuals.Then why was I entertained? Simple: It was fun. I had a fun time. It's
not
the classic the desperate action junkies and video game nerds want it to
be.
Nor was it mind-blowing. I saw nothing here that I haven't seen in
billions
of stories written decades before this movie was thought of. The visuals
are
fun and "bullet time" was somewhat cool to look at, but there really was
no
POINT to the movie. What are we getting out of this? Nothing except minor
entertainment. Should I bother with Reloaded...?

******
9 May 2003
7

The Matrix was a decent piece of modern dystopian science fiction, but it
is
very much over-rated.  The main theme of the film seems to be on the
dangers
of technology.  This is an important theme, but it is done much better in
the Terminator series and the Lord of the Rings series.  The special
effects
were impressive but the film did not deserve the 4 Oscars that it won.
1999's The Phantom Menace was superior, both technically and in terms of
story telling.  The overall feel of The Matrix is very dark and dirty,
with
very little light.  An OK movie, overall.  7/10

******
10 November 2002
5

Listen, I did not enjoy this movie at all. Sure, I love guns and
explosions
in movies just as much as the next Joe Blow, but this is trash. Why does
everyone love this movie? Is it the fact that it revolves around the
computer world. Or maybe, some people need to escape from reality so much,
that they need to watch a movie, where the only reality is in a computer.
I
you want a real escape from reality, watch E.T. Cuz as far as I know it,
that movie did'nt have any teens shooting up schools, after it's release.

******
24 October 2002
6

This movie is clearly overrated.
No one can deny the great special effects, however it is one of the worst
story lines ever. It also is full of horrible acting and bad mushy scenes
that are pointless. At best this is a moderately decent
movie.

******
12 October 2002
6
What can I possibly say about this movie that hasn't already been said?
There are over twenty-six hundred comments at IMDb and another
twenty-five hundred at Amazon. There even seems to be some block
"reviewing" from young Christian groups enthusiastically pointing out
all the parallels to Christ's life: Neo, "The One," "Trinity," saving
humankind, and being lifted up to heaven, etc. I would add that
directors Andy and Larry Wachowski touched some other religious bases
as well. Note that Gloria Foster is "Oracle" (Greek mythology), that
Lawrence Fishburne is Morpheus (of the Underworld) and that Joe
Pantoliano is "Mr. Reagan" (a little secular allusion here). The band
of heroes are also referred to as "freedom fighters" to recall our
ex-prez's words. (But never mind.)The main thing to understand is that this is one very popular and very
arresting movie, the sort of thing Hollywood producers love; in fact
all of Hollywood loves The Matrix because it gave work to so many.
Scrolling the credits takes longer than your mother's phone good-bye.
The Matrix is an industry in itself, something like Star Wars and
Rambo.But is the movie any good?Well, it's not much on video. The DVD is undoubtedly an improvement,
and on the silver screen it might lean you back in your seat. The
cinematography, sound and special effects are first rate.But I mean philosophically speaking?I think we can get a hint from a review that began (and I quote) "Why
can't all movies be this good? -A 12-year-old viewer." Indeed, this is
the question all those marketing minds in Hollywood are asking. The
true blockbuster action/adventure/sci-fi movie aims at a male viewer of
about 18. Ideally the range would include 12-year-olds to
thirtysomethings. Any philosophy beyond that mental age is burdensome.So you don't think it is a philosophically interesting movie?Actually I do. I just don't think it's original. I mean Plato's cave
allegory is over two thousand years old. And let's not forget The
Wizard of Oz (1939) or even The Truman Show (1998). Any science fiction
buff can point to half a dozen precursors.Isn't that stretching it a bit?Okay, how about this short story from half a century or so ago called
something like "The Perm-Machine." Everybody in the future society is
working their nine-to-five tails off for a TEMP--that is, for a few
hours in the box hooked up to the feelie machine complete with 3D
screen, surround sound and electrodes attached to your every neuron so
that the complete, thrilling, all senses experience of the greatest
adventures in life are theirs, including sex, drugs, heart-pounding
action and other sensual pleasures. But what everybody really wanted
was a PERM, which would place them in the box permanently hooked up to
the electrodes and intravenous drips, etc. for the rest of their lives,
a kind of virtual reality heaven on earth.What about the acting?Forget the acting. It was okay. Consider this instead: we are going to
become software. There isn't going to be any "warfare" between man and
machine with the human spirit triumphant. Instead, we are going to
become more and more attached to our machines, our computers, our
chips, until at some point (see Ray Kurzweil's The Age of Spiritual
Machines: When Computers Exceed Human Intelligence or Pierre Baldi's
The Shattered Self: The End of Natural Evolution) the line between us
and machine will be completely blurred. And then, molecule by molecule,
we will DISAPPEAR, and at no time will we even realize it happened!The Matrix is a vision of the future, but it is a hopelessly
anthropomorphic vision, a kind of action/adventure director's scan,
extrapolated from the present. Where artificial intelligence, virtual
reality and the prospect of quantum computers is taking us cannot be
envisioned at all. Some people call this the "singularity" factor. The
future (and by the way, most of the audience of The Matrix will live to
see this) is like the horizon of a black hole that we accelerate
toward, never able to see beyond that horizon until we are IN.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)

******
30 September 2002
4

If you thought Myst was Mysterious, you'll find what you want, and you'll
rate this movie a "10." But for everyone else, there's not much here to
think about...or watch. I kept waiting for the plot to kick in. It never
did. Special effects pretty overrated. Sorry guys.

******
12 June 2002
6

"The Matrix" is a poorly written and directed film that rips off the
much better "Dark City." This film certainly is not among the top 100 films of the 1990s, let
alone should be ranked 40th as it is at IMDB.com.The script is poor as the writer and director did a poor job stealing
parts from other films.Keanu Reeves performance is poor, which is to be expected as
his performances usually are.Besides the special effects, Laurence Fishburne and Joe
Pantoliano were bright spots in the film as they give good
performances, especially considering the poor script, direction
and acting from those around them.

******
17 May 2002
4

There's science fiction and then there's dumb.  Anyone who took any physics
or biology or knows anything about computers can't be taken in by this
hokey
plot.  Very seldom is a plot so stupid that it detracts from special
effects
this good.  This was one of those times.  Even "Twister" seemed plausible
compared to this pointless endeavor.  Next time you want to waste the time
of a bunch of very creative and talented special effects people, you might
try  a GOOD science fiction story.

******
8 February 2002
4

I have just watched "The Matrix", and I was very disappointed. I had heard
it was a real good movie, and it was placed as #40 at IMDb, so I had some
expectations.After watching the first half hour I could see that it wouldn't be one of my
favorites. It was more likely that it would be the most disappointing movie
ever, but the action in the second half of the movie was pretty good made,
so it saved the movie from being a complete disaster.The story in The Matrix was so stupid that I considered stop watching the
movie, but I had to watch it all so I could rate it here on IMDb.Normally I like movies with "the chosen one" like Star Wars and Lord of the
Rings, but The Matrix was so stupid. The actors constantly repeated "he is
the one", I think it would be enough to say this three or four
times.I really don't understand how The Matrix could be in the top-250 at IMDb,
but some people like movies with stupid stories if just the action is good.
This movie does not deserve more than 4/10.

******
4 February 2002
4

Sometimes you wonder why movies are made the way they are made. The budget
is as big as the yearly national product of a small country in Africa and
still I, as a rather critical viewer, am not captured by the movie. Maybe
amazing special effects alone are not enough for me. BTW: I think you must
take production costs into account when you rate a movie.

******
16 December 2001
4

The special effects in "The Matrix" were spellbinding.  Keanu Reeves and
Laurence Fishburne weren't exactly suburb actors in the film, but they
weren't exactly bad either.  But I feel this movie lacks one principle
that
makes a great movie: great writing.  Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus walks
Neo (portrayed by Keanu Reeves) through a lot of discussion of what the
matrix is, in the middle of the film.  This fits into the category of
'exposition', a definite problem with script writing.  It would have been
better if the character Neo would have been involved with more drama while
actually figuring out what the matrix is.  In a movie like "Star Wars",
the
characters are placed in a setting unlike our world..."In a galaxy far,
far
away."  The action in "Star Wars" moves from one scene to another without
the characters stopping whatever they're doing, then sitting around and
explaining how the Millennium Falcon jumps to light speed or how the Death
Star destroys planets...the viewer actually sees the stars race across the
screen as the Millennium Falcon gets away from the Empire fighters, and
see
how Princess Lea painfully watches her own planet get destroyed.  In "The
Matrix", besides the long scene that gets bogged down by exposition, there
isn't much to character development.  If you take away all the amazing
special effects, there wasn't that much in the script to hold the
characters
together.  I am bothered how this movie is considered a "thinking man's
sci-fi thriller".  After all I just said, I really didn't feel this movie
lived up to that promise.

******
12 September 2001
5

I,for one,dont see whats all the hype about this film.As i watched it,i had
hard time not to fall asleep and also not to get all dizzy from the special
effects.This movie is nothing but a bunch of effects tangled in an
unconvincing and unoriginal story.Reeves does ok job,so does Fishbourne,but
i have a hard time accepting Carrie Anne Moss as a serious actress.You just
cant be in "Models inc." and then do serious stuff.Well,you can but then
dont expect you are gonna have an easy job convincing everyone that you can
do well in a serious role.5 out of 10 is my rating

******
8 September 2001
6

When I first saw this movie, I liked it.  I saw it a couple of more times
and I still liked it, although not as much as the first time.  Now that I've
grown up and am much more mature, I know it's ridiculous.  Not very good
storyline and Keanu Reeves doesn't know what a great movie is.  On the other
hand, Carrie Ann-Moss is a terrific actress and was perfect for the role. 
The directors try to make the movie longer by moving the storyline slowly,
especially the parts where Neo transported to the matrix.  The directors do
that only because they don't have any more special effects to put into the
movie.  Movies aren't about special effects, they're about acting, such as
The Godfather and Marlon Brando.

******
20 October 2000
6

Really excellent idea, but finally ends up as a more or less ordinary
action
movie. I was a little disappointed after all i had heard before. Rather
ridiculous one scene: The hero - rescuer of humanity ( Reeves ) - is dead,
but comes back to life through the power of a kiss. Trash - movie - like
!

******
18 August 2000
4

Good concept, crap movie! As I watched this, I found myself getting more
and
more annoyed, everybody in the cinema was in awe of the SFX and not seeing
the bigger picture, that is that this film is just another patriotic
'America is better than the rest and everyone should love us' grade D
movie.
The situation may be different, but the ideology of it is the same. Yeah
the
SFX are amazing, but the acting sux as does the storyline.
i give it 3/10

******
16 August 2000
4

I went to the cinema expecting to see a spectacular movie, filled with
stunning special effects and (at least) a decent plot and I got a boring
tale about a certain Neo, where God only knows why he must be a hacker (he
could well have been a pony express clerk or a plumber as far as the the
story is concerned). The dialogues are slow paced, mostly idiotic, and the
performance of Reeves is said to be one of his best just because he
remains
quiet most of the time. In the end I don't understand what the hype around
it is all about. Much ado for nothing. 

******
19 June 2000
5

What is "The Matrix"?  Lemme tell ya: "The Matrix" is a vast computer
network designed to kick butt and take names...oh, and to imprison all
humanity - almost forgot that.  Did I mention what Keanu Reeves has to do
with any of this?  No?  We'll get to him later, then.Well, conspiracy theorists, here's your ultimate sci-fi flick.  Seems we're
all living a virtual reality lie and that this is really the future and
we're all slaves to the Pentium gods.  In fact, the only thing that stands
between us and total oblivion are a pack of rebel freedom fighters and a
lone man who will one day destroy the evil....  Hmmm, does that sound
familiar to anyone else?DUH!  "The Matrix" cobbles together a story-line from not only "Star Wars"
but also "Alice in Wonderland", "The Wizard of Oz", Zen philosophy, Kung-Fu
chop-socky flicks, your choice of shoot-em-ups and one of any Oliver Stone
movies where we're all living in a daze and there's sinister plots working
to undermine our lives and make us all live a live (or in this case, a
"techno-lie").Reeves is Neo, the "Chosen One" as he is sometimes called and must be
brought from the "real world" to help an underground resistance in a
desolate world of the "future" to train, re-learn and re-think himself in
order to defeat the bad guys, save the good guys and (GASP!) find true love
in the form of Trinity (Moss).Okay, plot mechanics aside, this is a movie you'll only be interested in
for
the FX and let me tell you, there are some good ones here.  You know those
Gap commercials where people jump, freeze in mid-air then the camera
rotates
around them 180 degrees until they land?  That's what you'll see here, and
those scenes are well-done.  In fact, a lot of the action here is
invigorating and, truth be told, exciting.BUT, the Wachowski brothers tell a thin plot line that is just an excuse
for
their speical FX loop. And in it are some talented actors trying to stand
out from the swirling and swooping scenery about them.  Of the group,
Fishburne does best as Morpheus, the Obi-Wan to Reeves' Luke Skywalker.
Fishburne teaches, philosophizes and drop-kicks with the best of them and
is
one of the more memorable characters in modern day film-making.Reeves is pretty much ineffectual and (understandingly) bewildered by the
goings-on, so doesn't have much of a chance to do any acting.  Moss plays
tough all the way through (even when kissing Reeves!) and Pantoliano seems
to be here as a token gesture, since he was in the Wachowski's "Bound".The bad guys, though, are pretty effective, wearing dark glasses, neat
business suits and locked jaws.  The main baddie, Agent Smith (Weaving),
does most of the talking and threatening and suggests what Darth Vader
would
have been like in business wear.In the end, though, once all is said and done, you'll remember FX and
gunfire and fight scenes and, maybe, think twice about touching a mirror
again.  But not much else.  But if all you want is cool FX, look no
further.Five stars for "The Matrix", in terms of FX and story.There are supposed to be sequels coming out for this movie later on.  I'll
bet Oliver Stone will be first in line.

******
17 June 2000
4

The Matrix would have been a decent film had it not been for the recurring,
overdone messiah theme. To me, it lost all believability when Neo comes back
to life after being kissed. An otherwise very original storyline was ruined
by a predictable ending and a theme that's been done ad nauseum. I think
I'll pass on part 2 and 3.

******
30 May 2000
4

Well I went to the cinema to see The Matrix. Everybody had told me that it
was one of the best movies they had seen. Well it has some great special
f/x
but nothing more, The acting is terible and the plot has more holes than a
bowl of Cherrios. Soo if you wana see a good movie with f/x see Jurassic
Park.2/4 StarsTank you Very Much

******
19 May 2000
4

WOW! Big superstars! AMAZING special effects! Guns! Romance! WHAT a great
film! A really original plot too!I am of course, lying.The Matrix really wasn't all that great. The special effects, while being
pretty good as they were, were:
A) first seen in Gap adverts
B) just there for the sake of it, and they really added
nothing.As for the plot, I could see about three films from which it was seemingly
stolen, the far superior Dark City on particular.The pathetic attempt at romance was disastrously tacked on at the end, for
no reason, and Reeves's performance wasn't really that
great.Just another big bad Hollywood nothing. Shame.

******
23 April 2000
4

   Nearly unwatchable clap-trap about "common man" Reeves caught up in
secret struggle between computer-enhanced good and bad guys.  The special
effects are great, but c'mon, there should be a coherent or compelling plot
somewhere.  It's ridiculous that this movie is voted (at this writing) as
the 30th best film of all time;  I must have seen some other movie
coincidentally called The Matrix.    

******
31 March 2000
6

Imagining that the world is a matrix might be a nice idea and the story
follows the comic intention, but a happy end to have one, spoiled the
story.
If the power of love could save lives, Lady Diana Spencer would have never
died. Okay, it´s only a movie with excellent effects but this can not fill
weaknesses of the story.

******
21 February 2000
6

You'd think THE MATRIX was a very special movie indeed based on all the
extremely positive comments preceding this one.  I must admit that it is
quite entertaining and has no boring moments.  It features some great
special effects and is visually exciting.  But these adjectives could also
be used to describe an MTV music video.  In fact, it seems music videos,
along with Japanese animation and the slow motion action scenes from John
Woo movies, were the main inspiration for this film.  Throw in a science
fiction plot containing lots of pseudo scientific jargon and you have a
movie that is not only action packed but seems quite intellectual as well. 
But it is this intellectual aspect of THE MATRIX that I feel has been
overrated.  The film's central question, -- `Just what is reality?'  is
drowned out by all the action and not examined in any great detail.  A
motion picture that tackles this very same question in a much more
fascinating manner is 1998's highly underrated DARK CITY.  Both films
explore similar territory, but because DARK CITY was not geared towards the
mainstream by incorporating a modern music score and a shoot-em-up
sensibility, it was not as popular.  Like little children fascinated by
bright colors and loud noises, modern audiences tend to be transfixed by
films like THE MATRIX.  But this movie's lasting power (like last months
number one pop hit) won't be long term.  Entertaining  yes, great or
meaningful  No.  Final verdict:     6 out of 10.


******
30 November 1999
6

I wanted to see this movie for a long time. Ads that claimed it to be a
movie of 21th century. Now, I've seen it at last and it did not live to the expectations. The movie
is made to show visual effects but all they had to show was in the ads
already, so nothing new. Plot is absent, idea is ridiculous (feed humans to
use the body as the batteries, less efficient energy production cannot be
thought of). OK, it can be seen once but it does not deserve a place in the
top 250. Comparison with The Phantom Menace is natural here. And not in favor of The
Matrix. 


******
27 November 1999
5

I think sometimes we tend to confuse dark science fiction movies with
cyber
stuff in them as also being really smart movies. The Matrix, which is
really
just William Gibson lite, does this unabashedly, it even has some weird
pseudo zen-buddhism nonsense to try to overcomplicate "The Matrix".
Fishburne spends half the movie saying, "The Matrix" is this, "The Matrix"
is that, when he should have just gotten to the point that "The Matrix" is
virtual reality. I can't stand pretentious science fiction. Maybe, if
you've
never read a science fiction novel, or seen a sci-fi movie in your life
you'll like this, but otherwise its just a dopey comic book.


******
12 November 1999
4

I saw this film after hearing much hoopla and hype surrounding it's special
effects. Always a fan of good Sci-Fi and well done special effects as well
as a coherent plot and strong characters, I laid down my $. My first comment
is that the special effects were outstanding. Extremly well done and (as
opposed to some other films) an intricate part of the story. What was
lacking was a coherent plot and strong characters. I was dissapointed that
more explanation of the "Matrix" and it's reason for being were not
explained in more detail. The movie is very dark and depressing. The scenes
of Neo in some type of fetal-hybernation state with the tubes coming out of
him were downright disturbing. Most of the actors give pretty standard
performances and as usual, Keanu Reeves continues to underwhelm me with his
"Whoa" style of acting. Quite frankly, I left the theater feeling uneasy and
eager to see a bird, a green tree, people laughing, anything that would
erase the depressing state the film put me in. Other films have moved me
emotionally (Saving Private Ryan was gut wrenching to watch) but most always
seem to end on a positive note or at least have me contemplating something
positive. The Matrix had me grasping for the Zoloft.
Action/Sci-Fi films need to get beyond their attempt at "eye-candy"
entertainment and start providing something more substantial to leave us
with. Thank goodness, George Lucas figured this out over 20 years ago with
Star Wars. 

******
5 November 1999
4

The move was entertaining... that's about it.
I expected bad and (God I hate to use this word, the word that is the
staple
of any critic, but in this case its so accurate)
'uninspired' acting by Keanu Reeves, and got it.  "Woah" couldn't save this
movie but obviously special effects did.
Hate to break the news to you but Matrix's story line is entertaining but
hardly original.  (I'd give an example but it might spoil the
plot?)
But, take any of the great SCI-FI movies of the 50's most of em have the
exact same plot but some still stand out.
The acting was dull, it really was, Larry Fishburne tried, VERY hard to
make
it interesting but it was just so pitiful.  A good actor like Larry F
looked
SO out of place in this thing.
Entertaining though? Sure, very.
The action sequences (though I still think there were too few of them) are
some of the best I've ever seen.  The CGI effects were outstanding as well.
Sometimes that's all you need in a movie.   Take, say, Predator.  Fun
movie,
I loved it, not a mecca of acting either, but I liked it better cause it
set
out what it was supposed to do, better than the Matrix.
Is it better than Terminator? or T2? No. I don't think
so.
Actually I can't quite decide, was there not enough action to offset the
dialogue? or was there enough action and the dialogue just slowed the movie
down too much to make it appear that way?  It could go either way I
suppose.
With a better actor, and dialogue that didn't slow the movie down as if it
had stepped in molasses, it could've blown most any other action movie dead
out of the water.  I can't say enough how it would kill me that each time
I'd see some of the most complex, well paced, outstanding action sequences
(the hotel lobby for one being one of the greatest in a movie ever) to be
shot to hell by bad acting in and dull dialogue.
The action overshadows that enough though to make this movie worthy to
watch
at least once, that and the DVD kicks A@@ too.

******
23 September 1999
4

A nice premise is ruined by a plot that never settles down and decides what
it is going to be.  The first 1/2 of the movie builds nicely, but the last
1/2 is just mindless action with no direction.  The phony fight scenes were
out of a Mortal Combat video game.  If karate was so essential to the movie
they should've gotten Jackie Chan to do it. 

******
23 September 1999
4

Sorry, I had to break up the monotony of review after review that
essentially all read like this: "The Matrix is AWESOME!"I'm as much of a Keanu Reeves fan as the next girl... I even think that he
did a decent job in Much Ado About Nothing, but I was very disappointed in
his performance in this movie.  His acting was so wooden that I rarely
sensed any well-conveyed emotion.Also, what was up with the writing?  I remember when I first saw the trailer
for this movie, I laughed for weeks over the fact that the shot of a
supposedly amazed Keanu saying "whoa" in a breathy voice was the highlight
of the 30 second advertisement.  There were several points during the
ridiculously absurd and unbelievable movie that caused both my date and me
to guffaw when we saw it on the big screen.One thing I do have to say in the Matrix's favor is that it looked pretty
damn good (this description does include Keanu, by the way, who looks
excellent in the wardrobe they gave him).  Lately a lot of bad computer
generated effects have made their way into movies, but this one was nearly
visually perfect.  Some of the scenes involving the twisting of reality were
pretty amazing.  If only the actors could have been as convincing as the
effects... and if only the plot they had to support wasn't so silly, I might
feel differently about this film.

******
15 August 1999
4

Every year there seems to be at least one movie that has theater-goers
buzzing, but which ends up being much ado about nothing. Here's 1999's:
The
Matrix.  Whether it's the hokey idea of robots using humans as batteries
rather than harvesting power chemically or geochemically, the dissolution
of
the trying-to-be-hip science fiction movie plot into a typical
action/shoot-'em-up vehicle, or the bedamned Hollywood ending, there's
much
to annoy the serious film-viewer in The Matrix. Its basic plot (human
discovers he's in a faked, alien-generated reality/ discovers he has
super-powers to fight aliens) was used in 1998's Dark City, a more stylish
film that also suffers from a Hollywood-esque ending. Invest your $7, $8,
or
$9 in Duracell stock. 

******
13 July 1999
10

It was wonderfully refreshing to finally remember what it used to be like
at
the cinema.  After the last few years of trash that has come out of
hollywood, with the same old crap storylines, but with piles of effects.
At
Last a movie that made me forget I was just watching a film, forget that I
was even in a cinema.  For the first time since Leon, I got completely
caught up in the movie, forgetting that it was just a bunch of actors
going
through a routine, but a well crafted, clever, original movie.  From the
first scene, when I found myself going 'f**k me' I was captivated into the
world of the Matrix.  I won't spoil it for anyone by talking about the
plot,
but only to say, if you haven't seen it..GO.  I believe this will be a
milestone for future films, hopefully they won't just be copies, but will
make filmmakers think about making something clever and
entertaining.In summary a great film, very original, very clever special effects and
wonderful fight scenes.

******
26 June 1999
4

OK, I'm probably one of the very few people that found this film
incredibly
boring, tedious and predictable.It felt like I was watching Men In Black V. Terminator 2.  I kept
expecting
Tommy Lee Jones or Will Smith to turn up any minute.  The concept of
bad(?)
guys wearing dark suits and sunglasses and trying to hide the truth from
us
mortals has been done before in MIB.  The concept of computers taking over
the world in the future and one person being the saviour was done before
in
Terminator 2.It was predictable that Mr Keanu Reeves was the chosen one, yet he would
not
realise this fate until there had to be a near death scene where the
audience were all to believe he was dead, until he realised he was him -
the
chosen one.  There was lots of mush in there about if you know then it
will
happen, oh please fetch me the sick bucket.The special effects are OK, not much to shout home about, and definitely
did
not add anything to the film.

******
19 June 1999
4

I didn't expect to see a hyper-violent wannabe-Neuromancer kung fu fest
that
mixes the worst of scifi and fantasy with ideas cribbed from William
Gibson
and Philip Dick... but that's what it is. It's like a rehash _The Three
Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch_ as written by a cloned Gibson gone mad with
Hong Kong fight movies and superficial Hollywood scifi
films.This is a film for people who like to see their heroes walk in the front
door
and mow down all the evil guys with a huge machine gun to a blaring techno
soundtrack._The Matrix_ is all show, eye candy, no brain. Neat effects, no content.
It
has the intellectual sophistication of a video game, senselessly throwing
out "deep" stuff like "What is real?" like the filmmakers even cared. Such
questions only serve as an excuse to show all sorts of neat special
effects
and stunts._The Matrix_ will appeal to a lot of little (mentally as well as
physically)
boys, and the huge number of tactically placed gratuitous Keanu shots will
likely please the girls as well. This is a film that is presumptuous
enough
to begin by asking "What is real?" and end with a martial-arts fight
between
Good (as represented by Keanu as the originally named "The One") and Evil
(as represented by three guys dressed in black). Spaceship-sized plot
holes
abound. Good acting doesn't save a horribly clichéd script ridden by
stereotypes and comic reliefs that we've all seen before._The Matrix_ reminded of three films: _Event Horizon_, an exercise in
morbidity and stupidity (over which _The Matrix_ towers, not that it says
much), _Dark City_ (which has similar problems but manages to be stimulate
the intellect at least part of the time, the rest of which it makes up for
with sheer style; at least it offered a very intriguing premise, one that
in
turn reminded me a lot of Brian Aldiss' sublime novel _Non-Stop_), and
David
Cronenberg's _Videodrome_ (one of the most daring and challenging, and at
the same time visually overpowering, depictions of alternative realities
put
on screen so far).I look forward to, at some point in the future, we'll get an authentic
science fiction film that doesn't believe in stupid audiences, hackneyed
cliches, or box-office success, and dares to ask important questions and
then deal with them. But that's wishful thinking, I guess. Outright
science
fiction, as it were.

******
13 June 1999
4

This movie SUCKED, big time. Yes, the special effects were sensational.
Yes,
the story was mildly interesting (What there was of it). But as
Independance
Day famously proved, you need more than that to make a good movie; but
not,
apparently, to sell one.
Besides the hugely cliched and excruciating dialogue, Keanu Reeves
continued
his tradition of lending no personality whatsoever to his character, much
as
the rest of the 'actors' in this terrible, terrible film. The only chap
with
even a small measure of integrity and personality was the great Laurence
Fishburne, and he certainly was far from at his best. I didn't care one
jot
who lived or died when I was watching this movie, although I must admit it
was rather satisfying when the infuriatingly smug agent was finally
dispatched.
Anyone who genuinely liked The Matrix is nothing more than a conveyor belt
mass-production social drone who'll swallow any old hype and sacrifice any
amount of dignity for the sake of a few nice effects. Just a normal Keanu
Reeves film, then.

******
26 May 1999
6

When it comes to quality acting and good effects, this
ranks
among the best sci-fi films I've seen. The plot however,
is
a little too vague and unbelievable to match the other
good
qualities of this movie.


******
20 April 1999
5

The film has great special effects and fight sequences, but with
characters
you don't really care about.

******
19 April 1999
5

Okay, okay, so the movie was mildly entertaining.  But #20 on the top 250
films of all time?  You have got to be kidding me.  If this is where the
movie industry is going, I think we should all be deeply saddened.  A
special effects-driven, mindless action movie with a bad script...  Hey, did
Jim Cameron do this film??  

******
26 September 2014
9
Matrix and the sequel is one of the greatest movie in the world. This
is for the first time, "Bullet Time" show to the world how to stop
motion but the other one do the action, like "freeze". Actor and
Actress do their job with strong acting. Technically, Bullet Time is an
invention in the movie and until right now, Bullet Time still using in
some of movie production, TV Commercial or other production. Scenario
it's okay and the plot is alright. The Wachowski Brothers has finished
their job and you can see the Matrix got Box Office. I never bored to
watching The Matrix and sequel. This movie is sci-fi genre, with full
motion and great acting.

******
25 September 2014
9
You walk into this film not knowing what the Matrix is. You take your
seat and watch the trailers. 2 hours of excitement later, you stumble
out of the cinema, knowing what the Matrix is.This is one great movie. Keanu Reeves is cooler than cool as Neo.The
Wachowski brothers skillful direction is brilliant. The special effects
sequences will blow you away, did I mention the government lobby scene?Plot:Thomas A. Anderson is a man living two lives. By day he is an average
computer programmer and by night a hacker known as Neo. Neo has always
questioned his reality, but the truth is far beyond his imagination.
Neo finds himself targeted by the police when he is contacted by
Morpheus, a legendary computer hacker branded a terrorist by the
government. Morpheus awakens Neo to the real world, a ravaged wasteland where most
of humanity have been captured by a race of machines that live off of
the humans' body heat and electrochemical energy and who imprison their
minds within an artificial reality known as the Matrix. As a rebel
against the machines, Neo must return to the Matrix and confront the
agents: super-powerful computer programs devoted to snuffing out Neo
and the entire human rebellion.Excellent Film Rating : 9/10

******
24 September 2014
8
A computer hacker learns from mysterious rebels about the true nature
of his reality and his role in the war against its controllers. Thomas
A. Anderson, played by Keanu Reeves, is a man living two lives. By day
he is an average computer programmer and by night a hacker known as
Neo. Neo has always questioned his reality, but the truth is far beyond
his imagination. Neo finds himself targeted by the police when he is
contacted by Morpheus, a legendary computer hacker branded a terrorist
by the government. Morpheus awakens Neo to the real world, a ravaged
wasteland where most of humanity have been captured by a race of
machines that live off of the humans' body heat and electrochemical
energy and who imprison their minds within an artificial reality known
as the Matrix. As a rebel against the machines, Neo must return to the
Matrix and confront the agents: super-powerful computer programs
devoted to snuffing out Neo and the entire human rebellion. The Matrix
is an immensely entertaining and philosophical film that for me is the
greatest sci-fi film ever made and nothing will ever come close to it
again. The Matrix soundtrack theme is, "Clubbed to Death", instrumental
composition by Rob Dougan and again it just fits the epic feel to the
film so well. Everything about this film is just terrific including the
mind blowing special effects. It is just incredible, there are no other
words to describe The Matrix.

******
8 September 2014
6
A great looking film that has less substance than the expectation.It's a movie that looks great and even the premise is outstanding but
is made comical i action ruining the point to an extent. Surely, when I
saw it in theaters when I was very young I loved it and went gaga and
saw the whole trilogy in theaters and liked t to an extent But now,
when I revisited it after several years, the 'wow' factor has gone and
now it seems like any other action film.Surely, in terms of action and the whole production design, this was
the first of it's kind that had the greenish tinge to frames and
setting up infinite space in a room, in that complete white background
scene where "Neo" and Morpheus talk.Keanu Reeves as Neo/Thomas Anderson was good ad so was Carrie Ann Moss
as Trinity but I loved Morpheus played y Laurence Fishburne the most as
his character was the epitome of setting men free from bondage and in
his own way.The writer-directors Wachowskis must be appreciated and credited a lot
for having taken the Hollywood action sequences to a new level. Be it
the "Bullet movement" or the "walking on the walls" they were
stunningly and with an ease.We know, that none of it is possible, this is a science fantasy film
that takes the premise from the myths of "being free from world". It
takes from the Buddhism concept of "Nirvana" I think that means
liberation of the soul. Yet, we are engaged in a way much better than
many sci-fi films that this makes us believe in the theory at least.I might not like this whole picture being seen again, but I am going
with a 3/5 that means the film is surely good. I might not watch this
again just that I am not much into action.

******
29 August 2014
10
If you haven't seen The Matrix yet, then all you would have heard of it
is that it's simply a jaw- dropping action film with this cool
'bullet-time' thing. But it's much more than just another action movie.
It's one that raises pertinent questions to the philosophy of what life
really is. Praise should be awarded to the Wachowski's for creating the
most original science-fiction film since 'Star Wars'. Although the main
ideas of the film are difficult to grasp, the Wachowski's have created
a modern adaptation of Plato's Allegory of the Cave by placing it in
the technologically advanced world we live in today making it easier
for modern audiences to understand. The key to the film's success
however does lie in it's spectacular action sequences and pioneering
special effects that still continue to amaze audiences today. Amazingly
choreographed by legendary action choreographer Woo-ping Yuen, the
action sequences are ones that are still unmatched in their amazement
even today. Whether you are in the mood for thinking and delving into
the questions of whether the life we live is real or simply looking for
a good dose of 'bullet-time', then The Matrix is the film that will
satisfy any film-goer as it continues to this day to be one of the most
original films ever made.

******
17 August 2014
9
If the ancient Greeks imagined the world of their gods through
amazingly well written plays, Hollywood has found a way to tell the new
generations the live of our new gods; characters that live in the
imagination of the young people, or at least those who refuse to grow
old. Matrix is one of those new Greek tragedies of the recently passed
XX century. Neo, is the hero of this story, as well as Perseus or
Odiseo were in their own stories. And like every hero, he must be an
orphan, the one that does not fin it his own world... because it is not
his world. He lives in a computer created universe called "The Matrix";
were robots have taken control over humanity, turning us into mental
slaves, using our bodies as batteries to feed them, to keep them
working. But Neo does not know this... yet, and there is were the
mentor slides in, the teacher who shows the hero it's real path:
Morpheus, a leader of the human resistance. Neo must take a decision,
return to the computerized world, or accept his destiny as the human
Saviour in an almost destroyed world were only a few humans not
connected to the Matrix strike back. He decides to fight. But his
decision comes with a cost... he must defeat the villain that spoils
our heroes ambition, Agent Smith, the new version of the unbeatable
Dragon. And like every hero, he gives his life to save his mentor's...
Achieving with it, immortality. It is all in the Matrix, a great
adventure of the new mythology. A new hero, a new path, for a new
generation of technocratic and computerized people... Definitely a must
see.

******
19 December 2012
9
When I saw this movie for the fist time when it came out. I thought it
was the coolest and most badass movie ever made. I wasn't entirely sure
what was going on when it came to the story at that time. But all I
knew was that is was really cool. It's a bit outdated now but it still
left a mark in cinema and inspired a lot of movie and more to come. The
story is actually very creative and has sci-fi philosophical elements
that is well blended into the story and isn't forced. And the dialogue
is even cool and interesting. I am not going to get in depth with the
story but I will just say that it's pretty clever without it being
overly complex. This is probably Keanu Reeves's trademark movie and I
can't picture anyone else taking the role of Neo besides him. And glad
that someone like Will Smith didn't end up with this role. Nothing
against Will Smith but Keanu Reeves is just the better candidate. He
was just perfect for a movie like this and fit the image of a average
cool hacker that gets picked or chosen to do something much much
greater. Even the mentor character Morpheus(Laurence Fishburne) and the
main villain Agent Smith played by Hugo Weaving are excellent choices
for the roles they were given. The action was super cool and even
amazing when this movie first came out. In fact it's the first movie I
seen that blends slow motion and bullet time in a effective manner in a
movie. It tries to combine so many stuff into this one film but it does
it right. One of it is the anime film "Ghost in the Shell" which
obviously played a huge part in inspiring the Wachowski brothers.
Overall this is a cool and entertaining movie with some wicked ideas
that all sci-fi movie watchers shouldn't miss out on...Well it's been
out for more than a decade. It's a shame the sequels will ruin this
awesome mythology of "The Matrix". To the point I think this movie
would have been even more legendary if the sequels didn't come out or
if the sequels was at least good as "Dark City".9.8/10

******
16 September 2007
10
Its obviously the best movie in the world. So much better than others.
Even Neo walking down the hall is better than Mission Impossible. Watch
it Now! I do not no know why it isn't 10 out of 10. Reloaded is better
and revolutions rules too but in all, The Matrix series is awesome. It
should have ( the movie) should have got a gazillion Oscar awards.
Keanu Reeves/Neo rules. Trinity=so so but Morpheous is real cool.
Agents look weird with business suits but sunglasses are a good idea. I
can watch it again and again without ever getting bored. Lobby shooting
spree is favorite part. loved the entire movie. Thank you Wachowski
brothers!

******
2 March 2005
4
The Matrix is not a bad film, it keeps you involved because of the slow
uncovering of the complex and bizarre plot, the twist and turns as the
movie unfolds, Agent Smith as the perfect baddie and of course the
pretty wild action sequences. The atmosphere is suitably dark and the
special effects are excellent. All good enough for a fine evening of
movie entertainment, right? Unfortunately there are some rather big problems as well, and they
really bug me the morning after watching the film. Truth is, I am
really struggling with the plot. I am quite a fan of science-fiction so
that in itself is not what bothers me. I don't even mind the
questionable assumption that human bodies can be harvested for power
generation without having to input more energy than they produce. No,
the real doubt I have is simply: why this Matrix? Why do the machines
even bother to go to such lengths as this incredibly complicated
computer programme that makes humans think they have an actual life?
Why not just let them rot in their pods and good luck to them? What do
the machines get out of it? Surely it costs vast amounts of energy to
keep this programme running and hook up all the humans to it? Why do
they do it? What's the point? Also, why do Special Agents have any limitations at all? If they are
computer programs, and the world they operate in is a computer
programme too, why are they not simply all-powerful and invulnerable to
bullets and other attacks? A computer programme has no physical
limitations - anybody with a games console knows this. Why bother
shooting at a virtual body with virtual bullets? I realise these are fundamentals required for the plot to work, but I
find the problems a bit too glaring to overlook. When you think about
it, this film is no more than an excuse for the (in themselves quite
good) special effects. Therefore, in the cool light of day I can't give
this film more than 4 stars.

******
13 May 2003
4

To be honest, I'd expected this be some stupid flick. A bunch of my friends
had seen The Matrix and most of them didn't really like it. I thought they'd
be right, since most of the time they have the same taste as me (or they
eventually will get the same taste as me, as for Star Wars, which they
didn't really like at all at first, but now they do ^_^) so I thought this
movie would be dull and boring.I was positively surprised. The story is actually really good, and so is the
acting. I'm not a fan of Keanu Reeves, but he was great as Neo. Same for
Carrie-Anne Moss and Laurence Fishburne. The much-talked-about special
effects are really great as well.There were some flaws though, in my humble opinion. Much of the dialogues
were just too cliché, as were some of the characters (Cypher, Tank).
Sometimes the movie got a little bit dull (at about half of the movie) but
towards the ending it got better again. Still, as I said, not bad at
all.8/10

******
16 August 2001
9

This will blow your mind as Morpheos said to Neo. And guess what: he was
right. This movie is action packed but not all special effects. There are
some really intense action sequences that they were able to create not
involving jumping off walls and shooting a huge bank full of people. Like
when Neo goes into the Matrix for the very first time. Be prepared to learn
something cool about one of the people. Although it does take a little while
before Neo goes into the Matrix. A good hour and a bit. But he does some
extrordinary things like the kungfu scene and his first jump. And even the
first scene when Trinity is in. Whoho. You don't want to miss this. A good
story and good special effects. Too bad the sequels aren't coming out till
2003 and 2004. Take my word on it go see this film. 9/10

******
12 May 2000
4

Against the background of The Thirteenth Floor and Existenz the film seems
childish. Its creators focus on tricks such as running on the vertical
surfaces, swallowing bullets and firing every kind of weapons the film crew
could think of. It's a strange thing but though the show is breathtaking
while one is watching it the viewer is unable to tell what it is all about a
few minutes after the film has ended. The idea (if there is one) is not new.
There is a vague entity enslaving our long-suffering planet instead of the
good old ET invaders, gallant but few rebels, to be continued (certainly!).
The film lacks depth. One can see it once in a good movie theatre but that's
all for it. 

******
1 April 2000
3

Lawrence Fishburne mouths unintelligible, cryptic proverbs ... Keanu Reeves
gapes back blankly, slackjawed.  Bang, zoom ... the morphing computers,
sensing a total absence of continuity, kick in.  Stuff gets blowed up REAL
good.  Then it's back to the, uh, story.  More tightlipped pronunciations
through clenched teeth, and HOO! HAH! Martial arts! Pow! Thud! Who won? Who
knows? There's nary a mark, or even a hair out of place.Whoops, listen: somebody's got more deep thoughts. "There is no spoon." Ah,
the audience is awaiting The Truth behind that one. Can you handle The
Truth? Well, accepting the award for The Truth, here she comes: The Oracle!
A chain-smoking, cookie-baking Sassy Mama! "Have ... a COOKIE,
Nio!"I mean, how can it miss?  This is High Concept, this is Today, this is Now,
short-attention-span Y2K box office boffo!  We're talking Sequel City here! I rooted for Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving, the one actor who acted in this
flash-trash celluloid sinkhole) and his Brown Suits. Especially after he
compared the principal characters to a virus which consumes and then moves
on.  The Robo-Man makes a point.Hey! Wait a minute ... maybe there really IS no spoon!  Maybe that's the
POINT!  There isn't one of those, either!  A point, I mean.       
  
          


******
29 March 2000
4

I fit the demographics on this one.  I'm 30, a gamer, programmer, run a
domain in my off time, etc. etc.  I also love special effects, good action
movies and Sci-Fi.  I was really looking forward to this movie.The Special Effects were unbelievable. Overdone, but who cared?!!  It
deserved every Oscar in visual effects and then some.  Besides that:This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  I have seen many movies I
don't like, this is the first I REALLY hate.  The plot had so many loopholes
I felt the screenplay was like a quilt with plot(stitches) in between the
special effects(panels).  It reminded me of "The Abyss", but at least in
"The Abyss" the audience took it for what it was worth - a movie made up of
a half edited plot and poor acting while moving forward in the world of
special effects.  "The Matrix"- people actually liked this!Figuring I missed something I've asked people who love this movie what it
was about, and  they couldn't agree on the basics! So after research my
comments are...Kill me, but the acting was sub-standard, the plot confusing without
purpose, and a bunch of  characters who all looked like they walked out of "
Scream"   didn't help at all. This is excluding Fishburne who speaks like
the Kung Fu master in The Karate Kid.The screenplay was full of cryptic phrases like "the matrix has no
meaning..." and "the matrix cannot tell you who you are" that  could have
been told in an easier way without any loss of ambiance.  Instead, I felt
that I needed to bring my Captain America decryption ring.  The lack of the
actors' performances made it even harder to figure out the meaning of what
was being said.This movie speaks like a poor novel reads-a lot of words saying what a few
could have said better. Big words do not a good movie make. In the end you
feel both tired and empty.  At least the characters could have made me care.


******
27 March 2000
4

Go ahead and crucify me everyone, but I found this movie unbearably, loud,
violent, unimaginative (how many morphs and person splits do I have to look
at), and very boring. Unlike movies like Dark City and The Mummy which used
very clever and enjoyable special effects in a relatively restrained fashion
to serve a real story, with atmosphere, good acting and writing, this had
people I could care less about, a story maybe I was too dumb to get, or
maybe I had too much of a headache to be able to try. Without the aid of a 
computer, this movie would have nothing. Guess I am an old fogie at 35, this is nothing but a ".dot com" movie that I
fear will be the wave of the future. I'm glad I will be dead by the time it
becomes the norm. 

******
1 March 2000
4

Like a roller coaster, "The Matrix" is a visceral thrill ride.  Also like a
roller coaster, once the ride is over, you don't take anything home with you
and there isn't much of substance that needs to be said.I really enjoyed this ride.  I think it is among the best of its genre.  But
calling it "one of the greatest...etc, etc"--that's a leap I'm not willing
to make.  The acting styles and dialogue are campy, and I the plot certainly
can not be supported by any rational argument; rather it is something that,
like religion, requires a leap of faith to buy into.
Examples:1.  Everyone, including the "agents" evidently, can be killed by a single
bullet.  If this is not true, then why (other than the visceral thrill of
it) all the gymnastics to avoid them?  If it is true, then it is absurd to
think that their bodies could withstand even a fraction of the pummeling
they receive at each other's hands.  Everyone gets punched, kicked, hurled,
and driven into (occasionally through) plaster walls, only to emerge
unscathed but ready to dodge that next damn bullet.
2.  <<SPOILER FOLLOWS!>>  The energy delivered by the captive
human embryos to support The Matrix must, of course, be less than the energy
required to support them, making their use illogical.  (Reference: The Law
of the Conservation of Energy.)
3.  The function of The Kiss at the end is really getting into the shaky
ground of Dramatic License.  I know that the film is chock full of Jesus
symbolism, so it is required that <<SPOILER FOLLOWS!>> Neo dies
and then comes back to life.  But, as in the case of Jesus, it does require
a major leap of faith to embrace the idea--and drama is not religion. 
Personally, I get the impression that the writers just wrote themselves into
a dramatic wall, and required an unmotivated miracle--literally--to get out
of it. In the context of the action/thriller film genre, I think the examples I've
quoted above are really trivial.  But when an attempt is made to glorify The
Matrix as a film masterpiece, that changes the yardstick
entirely.Really, I liked The Matrix quite a lot.  As an action/thriller film, I think
it is about as good as they get.  But it is an amusement park ride and
little more.  When the ride is over, you either get off, or get back on for
another go; but you certainly don't claim to have had a spiritual experience
in the process.

******
25 September 1999
4

I didn't go to see this film because Keanu Reeves was in it,so I figured how
good could it be? But then i started hearing what a good film it was,what
great sci-fi,what great special effects. I still have flashbacks of Johnnie
Mnemonic so I waited for the video. When I tried to rent it the day it was
released both video stores I go to were out of it.I rented it three days
later-thinking I must be wrong,this must be a good if not great sci fi
movie. I might have been a little more impressed with the special effects if they
had not shown them before the movie started.The video actually shows how
some of them were created.Bummer-I like to be surprised. But even if I had
not seen this preview I would have still thought this was a so-so- movie.
Keanu Reeves-what can I say--he looked good in this movie.He has better
cheekbones than 90% of the models that strut their stuff down the runway-but
God love him--he can't act worth squat!Anybody who thinks this is another Blade Runner,or Dark City,forget about
it. This could have been a contender,but it falls short in so many ways. The
premise of the story is fascinating-people living in a dream universe
created by computer,while in reality they are created and used as a source
of energy to power the computers. This concept was not very fully explored
and I found Morpheus"s (Lawrence Fishburne the leader of the rebels who
knows the truth)explaination of the rules of the Matrix flawed. Instead a
deep thought provoking movie,the premise demands-what we get is a
shoot-em-up,and a Hollywood ending.This movie was mildly entertaining,in spite of Keanu Reeves,but its not
great sci-fi. I gave it a 4.  

******
24 July 1999
5
I don't understand why so many people liked the movie. The worst thing
about this movie is the plot. Oooh, the entire world is a VR simulation,
how
original! Did they come up with it all by themselves? I found the movie to
be very boring. Most of the action bits were ok, but between them we got
lots of idiotic dialogue that was suppose to be clever.
The movie should have been more like T2, with much more action, because
the drama and subplots were just sad. And I also must say that the action
scenes didn't brake any new ground. We've seen it all before.I know I'm endangering my life here, but I think Godzilla is a better
movie.And what with the Bible-babble? "What is the answer?" - "What is the
question?"... Oooh, I'm impressed! Not.

******
8 May 1999
4

Interesting idea and excellent special effects.  But I found the movie
somewhat confusing and too long.  It took me a while to figure out what
was
going on..then it dragged a bit...then finally caught my interest in the
last 45 minutes.  Good but not great.  Wait for the video.

******
9 May 2005
5
Well, OK, not quite.To call "The Matrix" an "insulting piece of garbage" completely
shortchanges its many triumphs: its great hook of a story, its snazzy
editing, its addictive style, its clever blend of philosophical
tidbits, and last but certainly by no means least, Hugo Weaving and his
devastatingly funny monologues as Agent Smith.Still, if you'll excuse the pun, The Matrix has a single scene that
makes the entire endeavour a tough "pill" to follow.When Trinity and Neo - decked out in full "cyber punk" regalia (shades,
black clothing, big boots) - arrive in the government building to
rescue Neo, they callously pull out their weapons and mow down the
security staff in attendance. Normal human beings. Doing their job. And
killed for what? A lengthy action montage follows - one of the film's
signature scenes - with yet more gun play, wire work, slow motion and
highfaluting pseudo Kung Fu action. This is where the film completely
loses me.A film in which normal people are killed by another character, even a
central character with zero emotion (e.g. The Terminator in the film of
the same name) does NOT bother me. A film in which normal people are
killed by other characters, one of which we are told is the saviour of
the human race and equated with no less than Jesus Christ, does. At
this very point, The Matrix crystallises its underlying themes and
aggressively punctures them right through the canvas: anarchy is good,
order is bad; fear the government; hate capitalism; do whatever is
necessary to bring down "the system". Neo's earlier life as Mr Thomas
A. Anderson is expressed more comically than seriously as it unfolds (a
scene of him getting grilled by his boss to the accompaniment of the
noise from a window wiper is hilarious) - but once the lobby scene has
played out, it and many other elements within the plot line of The
Matrix take on a darker tone. Nilhilism is the name of the game; since
the simulated world of the matrix is implicitly "our" world and
Morhpheus tells Neo/us that anyone who hasn't been "unplugged" is
effectively an enemy, it seems to grant the character a license to do
whatever he pleases and to do it to whomever he chooses. Linking
real-world violence with entertainment mediums such as computer games
and films is a tenuous and possibly futile action; however, one cannot
help but ponder what part this scene played in the Columbine High
School shootings. Clearly, the perpetrators were warped beforehand: but
they called themselves the "Trenchcoat Mafia" and committed their crime
the month after The Matrix went on release in the USA. No doubt some of
the victims had seen it, too, but does that excuse the film-makers for
being so irresponsible with their shoddy moral paradigm? Food for
thought.All in all, it's hard to accept the film as a genuine piece of Science
Fiction when its themes are so one-sided and joyless. There is a
palpable contempt for the working man all the way through and the lobby
scene only reinforces it. Not once are we shown the importance of
earnest employment and keeping society afloat; it's subversion,
subversion, subversion all the way. It doesn't help that Keanu Reeves'
performance is so lifeless and listless that a dead fish has more
personality. The inclusion of a tacky and wholly unconvincing romance
between Neo and Trinity just seals the deal. In fact, the romance is
proof positive that the movie is completely lacking a heart and soul.
There's absolutely no humanity to be had anywhere. And if it saviours I
want... I'll take the humane, tolerant, peace-loving, intelligent,
charismatic, impassioned man from the Bible who isn't about hurting
anyone but also isn't afraid to show some emotion and flip over a bunch
of tables over this false messiah any day.When all is said and done, is The Matrix worth watching? Sure. But its
overly bleak, dystopic, anarchic view of the world makes stomaching it
a chore. Don't let all the hype fool you: this is no classic. The
ridiculously overblown sequels, "The Matrix Reloaded" and "The Matrix
Revolutions", are even more soul-sapping. It's sad to think we still
haven't had a Science Fiction film to rival Ridley Scott's "Blade
Runner" - and that was two decades ago.

******
14 January 2002
2

I honestly don't know why this movie is touted so much as being the ultimate
scifi flick or whatever other tags it's gotten over the past 3 years.  The
story was hard to wrap my mind around, but that's perhaps because the
explanation for The Matrix itself was done in the middle of the film in the
cheesiest manner possible: sitting the hero down and explaining it to him. 
My mind just blanked it out.  Not only is this device as old as time, but it
doesn't involve the audience at all.  It's like we're just listening in.  It
would have been better for Neo to actually experience it firsthand and find
out exactly what the reality is around him and how it came to be.  I found
the FX to be pretty cheesy as well.  I felt like I was watching someone play
a video game rather than watching a movie.  The whole concept of the story
may be "deep" for the latest generation (I'm one step ahead of you folks),
but it sounded like contrived dreck to me. 2/10 cuz Keanu's pretty cute, but
cuteness does not a good movie make.

******
13 January 2002
2

I tried to like "The Matrix", I really did. The commercials looked really
cool with all the action shots and slow motion effects and I knew that I
just had to see it. When did I give up on it? About halfway through the
movie, (after the other 4 people I went to the theatre with had long since
began laughing out loud at this silly, absurd, and massively boring film),
Keanu goes to the apartment where the great oracle (or whatever) was
baking
cookies and retarded kids were bending spoons with their minds. That's
when
I stared laughing too. I'm sorry but my friends were right. This film
sucked. Sure there were a couple of sorta cool action scenes but you had
to
sit through the insanely dull hour and a half of Lawrence Fishburn
explaining EVERYTHING that happens in the film before these scenes even
appeared. And the movie "Blade" had come out around the same time and was
a
MUCH better surreal action film. As for the silly karate scenes (or kung
fu
or Judo or whatever), they were no big deal. I mean, did you really think
that Keanu was gonna be the next Bruce Lee? Do yourself a favor and rent
(or
better yet, Buy) the Jet Li "Fong Sai Yuk" movies. As for all the
psychological babble about what world is real and what world isn't, it
only
added to the chaotic mess that was called a script for this waste of
celluloid. Some say "Battlefield Earth" was a horrendous goofy mess. Well,
it was, but no where near as bad as this. :) 

******
19 August 2001
2

I would be inclined to agree with the people that claim that The Matrix is
unique, but probably not for the same reasons.
In the beginning of the movie, I was on the edge of my seat, even Keanu
Reeves' terrible acting couldn't upset me. I thought that the emerging
storyline was one of the best I had seen.
That feeling lasted untill the now legendary fight scene in the imaginary
dojo. After this point the movie takes a huge step away from the style and
course they laid out in the beginning. It got worse and worse as the movie
wore on, and I seriously considered stopping the movie. I hadn't been as
disappointed since Jurassic Park.
If the moviemakers had just remembered to keep up the the innovative and
awesome plotline, and not let it degenerate into one special effect after
another, it could have been one of the greatest movies of our
time.
If you like to see a movie with excellent special effects, camera and
lighting and action, this is clearly the movie for you.
If you on the other hand demand that a movie has a complete and thorough
plotline and story, just see the first half hour (or 45 minutes, I can't
remember).
My personal evaluation: 2/10

******
18 April 2001
2

I cannot believe such an abysmal film has already reached #39 in the IMDB
poll of the 100 Greatest Movies of all time. It beat the likes of Taxi
Driver and Star Wars VI- Return of the Jedi. However, this is one of those
films that leave you with a longing feeling in waiting for the sequel,
however bad (or quite possibly good) it may be. I wouldn't suggest this film
if you are into sci-fi and you haven't yet seen it. It is the type of film
adolescent teenagers adore yet they haven't yet grasped the full meaning of
it. Personally, and overall, I believe this film (the same way Blade Runner
was back in the 80s) is extremely overrated.


******
22 April 1999
4

While the individual pieces of this movie were well constructed, they
weren't particularly well assembled.  The Matrix tried to be a deep,
philosophical work, a techno-thriller and a Hong Kong action movie all in
one.  The blend just didn't work for me.And the whole "hovercraft" flying around the undercity portion was
completely gratuitous.


******
1 May 2004
4

I'm probably going to get lynched for saying this but...*hides and whispers* It's really not THAT good.It is an entertaining film. It is very good for passing a couple of hours
and for dissecting with friends afterwards. It is a film that was made for
video nights for that purpose. I'm not saying I don't like it, I do. But I
do not think it is a masterpiece. I do not find the secrets of the universe
contained herein - but that is probably because I am not a conspiracy
theorist and hence that level of the film is just daft to me. Indeed I think
it would have been a lot better had they just made a good old fashioned
adventure story with a cyber twist rather than making it a theological
debate.At a technical level it is absolutely amazing and that is the key to the
success of the film. If it did not have the technical stunts and gimmickery
then the reaction to it would be a lot more muted and probably more
realistic. It is no accident that the people I know who have praised it most
highly are cyberpunk fans! Other friends have been a lot cooler about
it.On the other hand it does have Keanu in leather and for that I can forgive
much!

******
21 April 2001
4

Terrific special effects, very noisy, no story, less wit, sophomoric (high
school sophomore) philosophy/theology. And what a shame our heroes couldn't
use their spectacular technology to, say, synthesize a nice cold bottle of
Moet champagne and extrude some Baccarat crystal to drink it from, instead
of gruel in tin plates.

******
6 January 2001
4

Alright. It has amazing digital effects. It's one of the most "styled"
movies I've ever seen. But computer effects and sets don't make a good
film.
Agree? =)
The action sequences are so exaggerated and the fight scenes look so
terribly ridiculous, all you can do is laugh about them. And the story is
a
typical hollow 90's collage of old science fiction movies. Other examples:
"Alien: Resurrection", "Event Horizon", "Sphere".
I say it's a big load of crap. Believe me! 4 shtarz.

******
6 April 1999
2

Calling "The Matrix" a science fiction movie is a massive abuse of the
English language. Science fiction presumes a basis in an existing or
projected law of science. At least this is the principle which gives
substance to the wildest speculations of masters such as Arthur C Clarke
(who has a first class physics degree). This film is better categorized as a
science fantasy, i.e. one where  the authors use the pretence of science as
a fig leaf to disguise the total inanity and incoherence of their project.
Even fairy tales work within their own framework of law which gives tension
and excitement to the surreal adventures. In "The Matrix" laws are not even
made up as they go along, as that would impede the next
stream-of-consciousness stunt. It makes a great special effect if a
character leaps tall buildings at  a single bound or recoils from a road
surface after falling from a 500 foot building. Unfortunately it also
removes any possibility of the audience taking him to be even a far-fetched
human character, and hence destroys any possibility of genuine thrills.
These creatures can survive being run over by a subway train and even death
itself. Hence the most risible Lazarus scene since "ET" -Keanu is revived from the tomb by the love of a good woman.You can make tennis easier to play by removing the net and rubbing out the
lines; unfortunately you thereby destroy the game.  Similarly The Matrix
fails to exist as any sort of half-coherent movie if you want a movie to
consist of more than a string of sensational images.Unlike AC Clarke's work, this screenplay fails to betray even a high school
awareness of science in "explaining" its universe, the war between machines
and humans, or the rationale for the machines sucking the life force of
humans - not to mention the hokey insertion of an old style soothsayer into
this "scientific" farago.I give it 2 out 10 - one for sheer chutzpah in raising $60 million on the
basis of such a ludicrous script and 1 for set design and special effects
combined. 

******
2 April 1999
4

I was not as impressed with this movie as i expected i would be.  i voted
this movie a "4"  and the reason it got that and not a lower number was
because i respect the special effects used in this film.  As far as the
story and acting goes, it was on the right path, but far from perfect.  The
ideas were there, but the execution was a little off.  If you're a fan of the
sci-fi movies and love to see special effects, then i recommend that view
this movie in the theaters, but if you're not really interested in these
kinds of movies, then wait and save your money for when it comes out on
video.

******
30 March 1999
4

There are few words that describe "The Matrix," but derivative, loud,
painful, and disappointing would be a good start.
From a plot straight out of a Dick or Gibson novel, to the agony of
watching
Laurence Fishburne recite pages of truly awful exposition, this is a film
that tries really hard, but often misses the mark.
To be fair, the film is aiming high and the middle third works really
well.
The sets, costumes and effects are terrific and the stunts and fight
scenes
are pretty wild. There are also some nice metaphors playing out, and there
is a serious parable being told here. The dialogue during the middle is
also
sharp and witty, and makes me wonder who wrote the rest of it,
particularly
all the scenes where Fishburne and Keanu Reeves play Obi Wan and Luke
Skywalker. ("The matrix surrounds us, it penetrates us...." And I thought
the next Star Wars movie wasn't coming out until May.)
The film can't decide if it wants to be Aliens, Johnny Mnemonic, a Borg
episode, a John Woo film, or a Gap ad, so it borrows lots from all of them
and ends up being too little of each.
Like a lot of sf films lately, there was a really good movie in here
struggling to get out. But it never makes it.

******
27 July 2005
10
This is a masterpiece in all aspects and one of the greatest
action/Sci-Fi films of all time. It's brilliantly made,with some
incredible jaw dropping special effects, and an extremely cool story,
plus Keanu Reeves is simply amazing in this. A lot of people criticized
Keanu's performance i thought it was amazing in my opinion, and all the
rest of the characters are outstanding, plus the fight scenes are
awesome!.Keanu had awesome chemistry with both Laurence Fishburne and
Carrie-Anne Moss, and, the story gripped me right from the beginning,
plus the stunts were outstanding!. Hugo Weaving is fantastic as Agent
Smith, and he was really menacing, and the set pieces were incredible,
plus it actually managed to creep me out sometimes. The finale is one
of the best i have seen and this deserve all the praise it gets from
everyone plus the ending was great!. This is a masterpiece in all
aspects, and one of the greatest Action/Sci-Fi films ever made, and i
say GO see this movie right now, don't waste any more time if you
haven't. The Direction is amazing!. The Wachowski brothers do an
amazing job here, with amazing camera work, fantastic angles great use
of colors, using a creepy setting, and plenty more amazing shots!. The
Acting is wonderful!. Keanu Reeves is AMAZING here, he is extremely
likable fantastic in the acting department, had awesome chemistry with
Moss and Fishburne, had some great dialog, was vulnerable, and was just
extremely cool overall! (Reeves Rules!). Laurence Fishburne is really
fantastic as Morpheous, he played an excellent character, had some
awesome dialog, had awesome chemistry with Keanu, kicked that ass, and
was just too cool!. Carrie-Anne Moss is great here, she was really
likable, convincing and had awesome chemistry with Keanu i liked her
lots. Hugo Weaving is Awesome as Agent Smith he was one scary guy, and
plays one of the coolest villains ever!. Joe Pantoliano and Marcus
Chong both do what they have to do well. Rest of the cast are
excellent. Overall Go See it right this instant don't waste any more
time if you haven't!. ***** out of 5

******
8 December 2004
8
I remember, back in 1999 (or it could have been the start of 2000),
when I first saw The Matrix. It was big, bold, loud, exciting...it had
guns, bullet time, Rage Against the Machine, plenty of action, a hot
woman in a lead role....I remember thinking "I should like this". But I
didn't. Like Kill Bill, it's hard to believe that a fan of extreme
blood and gore like myself could possibly dislike a film that sees one
lady pluck out another lady's eye, drop it on the floor and stand on
it, but it's true. OK, it's a little easier to believe when you
consider that every scene in Kill Bill, apart from that one and the
Lucy Lui fight was rubbish, but I'm sure you can see what I'm getting
at. Fast forward 4 or 5 years to today, and the rewatch. I have a theory
that states that any film that I enjoy cannot possibly be bad, because
I watch movies for enjoyment (nobody watches movies to be bored) and if
a movie fulfils that need for enjoyment, then it has done it's job and
therefore it can't be bad. And I enjoyed The Matrix. However, I maintain that it's not a great film. Now, if Pulp fiction has taught us anything; it's that it isn't what
you take, it's what you do with it....but by god, the Wachowski
Brothers should definitely consider changing their name to the
Wachowski BanditsFor a start; the film is Star Wars reincarnated. Keanu Reeves is the
one that brings balance to the force, and he even has everyone doubting
him for a while(!), Princess Morpheus gets kidnapped and tortured and
our hero's must go and save her...him, the bad guys have taken over the
galaxy...I mean the world, and there's only a bunch of rebels to save
it, they go and see Yoda...I mean the Oracle, who predicts the future
and stuff, there's training sequences a la The Empire Strikes Back, Neo
must become one with the force, whoops, i mean 'believe', Agent Smith
is Neo's father...oh, OK I made that last one up, but you see what I'm
getting at.And it's not only Star Wars that the Wachowski Bandits have ripped off,
The Terminator and it's sequel aren't safe either. Of course, they
couldn't have made Agent Smith actually be liquid metal, as they'd have
a lawsuit on their hands, but he is just another version of liquid
metal really...isn't he? Shown by the way he can transform from anyone.
And what about the whole 'computers take over the world' thing, you
didn't think I wouldn't spot that did you? And The Wachowski Bandits obviously aren't fascists, because even
shitty movies aren't safe. What about the whole SN thing? The way that
the hackers are made to look cool....Hackers anyone? But like I said, it isn't what you take; it's what you do with it. Just
like Tarantino did, Bonnie and Clyde...I mean Andy and Larry have
stolen all these elements, and mixed them up into one coherent, and
trend setting piece of cinema. Also like Tarantino, The Doberman Gang
haven't just stolen, they've made some stuff themselves as well. Bullet
time, for a start. Of course, it's not much of an expansion on the slow
motion in films like The Killer; but still. Also, the idea of the
'matrix' itself is an original one. (unless it's been ripped off a film
I haven't seen/heard of)The soundtrack fits too, which is rare when it's mostly rave/heavy rock
music. I think there's only Natural Born Killers and Lost Highway that
I can think of when it has worked. Anyway, when Rage's "Wake Up" came
on before the credit sequence, it fit very well. Also, the scene during
the training with the woman in red and the agent worked well with it's
music. In fact, that might even be my favourite scene in the movie.
It's cool and it works. In fact, the film does ooze a sense of cool
throughout, mostly because of the leather jackets. It's not a complete piece of cinema, however. I don't know if it's
built upon in the sequels, but there isn't a lot of emotion in the
movie. Sometimes, it doesn't matter, some of the best films of all time
are very cold on that front; my top 2, The Good, The Bad and The Ugly
and The Evil Dead both are; but then again, they didn't try and be soul
searching or have a great depth like The Matrix does. For an example of
what I'm talking about; the love between Trinity and Neo. I noticed her
saying she is watching him at the start, but other than, the love
seemed to be based on the fact that the Oracle said it would
happen....so I'm supposed to care? In fact, none of the characters
seemed to have any depth, or anything about them at all. What drives
them? Why does Morpheus blindly believe that Neo is 'The One'? Why did
Neo take the red pill? Is it his character? I don't know.Also of note is the way that people seem to refer to The Matrix as a
confusing film. It uses a non-linear style of storytelling (it runs
straight, but you don't find everything out all at once), and that's the
only confusing thing about it. When you think about it, it's very
simple.There isn't a great deal of depth, and the film doesn't pose any real
thought-provoking questions either. Of course, there's the central
theme; "it's all an illusion", but what does that mean? Of course, it's
not all an illusion really...so what's the message? Don't build too
many machines? There is a central question, though, which is "would you
take the blue or the red pill"...and that's not a bad question; but the
film, through it's non-linear storytelling and imaginative premise,
isn't as deep as it appears to be. Bit like Fight Club really. Of
course, the premise in The Matrix does get you thinking in a "what
if..." frame of mind, but so do lots of things, like on British TV
show, Kenyan Confronts; when he exposes credit card scams etc..."what
if mine was stolen", so does that make Kenyan Confronts a deep and
complex masterpiece? (By the way, did anyone think that Lawrence Fishbourne looked stupid
during his 'believe' type moments?) Still, like I said; the film is entertaining. The action sequences are
stunning and the film looks lovely throughout, so it gets itself high
marks for that. It's well paced as well, and unlike a lot of action
films; the non-action scenes in The Matrix aren't boring. But that's
all; it's like Song 2 ("wuhoo!") or the "Belly's gonna get you" advert;
fun, but not overly brilliant. However, I'm 'down' with fun films, so
I'm down with this.

******
4 June 2003
4

I have never fallen asleep at the cinema, but The Matrix is the closest
I've
ever come to doing so.  Quite frankly, the first hour of this film is the
most boring hour of film ever.Keanu Reeves cannot act, neither can Laurence Fishburne, Carrie Ann Moss
doesn't do much better.  The whole thing is too dark, and let's be honest:
If you've seen the trailer, you don't need to see the film, as it shows
you
all the special effects there anyway.I've been more disappointed by other films, but I fail to see how this
uninspiring and badly acted mess is hailed so much by fans.  Any old fool
can string together a series of special effects, the trick is to link them
with a good story and enjoyable characters.  The Matrix does neither.I'll admit it picks up a bit in the second half, but I was so completely
and
utterly appalled by the first hour, no amount of bullet time, however
impressive, can save this film.My Rating: 4/10

******
24 February 2003
2

Childish fantasy unrelieved by decent acting or directing, with a script
which could not have passed muster in a first-year writing class, marred by
special effects which range from silly and overblown to silly, overblown,
and pointless.This one is not for adults, or for anyone with more than three working brain
cells.

******
17 April 2002
5

Why does everyone think this movie is a masterpiece?  What
differentiates it from your typical, run of the mill, enjoyable action
movie?  Nothing, except maybe that horridness that is Keanu
Reeves....  The action sequences are pretty nice, I'll give you that.
But if you want to watch really good action sequences go rent
some old-school chinese movies.  Or even new ones.  Those
have the coolest fight scenes imaginable.
And the special affects, they were nice, oo, aah...  But all they were
was eye-candy.  They were not the kind of special affects that are
so good you don't notice them.  Those are the best kind of effects,
they mesh with the movie so well that they don't distract from the
plot, of course The Matrix doesn't really have a plot.
The movie tries to be Cyberpunk, it's based on the novel by
William Gibson who is a fantastic writer, so I have to assume that
the novel is good.  But this movie tries to sort of ask about virtual
reality and "where are we headed?" and so forth, but it does it so
poorly where so many others have done well.  Try reading (that's
right, _reading_ Gasp!) Otherland, or Neuromancer, or the
Diamond Age or Snow Crash or any of the great cyberpunk novels
if you want to know what this movie should have been.
Or even some movies, like eXistenZ which is not really as like the
Matrix as some people would have you believe.  Anyway, that's my
two cents.

******
3 August 2001
6

  Let me say that I do like this film, the acting was decent, the plot was
good, and the special effects were amazing. But I've seen much better movies
and I don't think The Matrix should have gotten 8.5 stars on IMDB. Maybe
6.5-7 stars...not 8, it should not be in the top 250. I'm sure there are
those that disagree with me but if they really paid attention to this movie,
and not be caught up in the craze, I think they'd realize it's just a decent
sci-fi movie. It should not be given that many stars, and that there are
other movies much better than this one.   The plot is Keanu Reeves plays Neo, a man that thinks something is wrong
with the world, and is struggling to find out what it is. He eventually
finds Morpheus, who explains to him, why the world seems fake..*minor
spoilers revealing plot ahead*.The reason is because the world as we know it
is not real, it is really a computer matrix made by machines in the REAL
world. The machines create humans in the real world, and load them into the
matrix. That way while humans are in the matrix the machines are feeding off
their energy to fuel themselves. But Morpheus and his gang have been
unpluggged, and they explain all this to Neo, and it results to the amazing
special effects climax.  This movie is good, not great. I give it 3/5 stars, no more. It's a good
sci-fi film with a good potential and special effects, no
more.

******
9 February 2004
5

The whole premise of THE MATRIX is flawed.  The machines are using humans
as
a power source - WHAT?  Yes, humans, and all animals, radiate heat, but
they
never radiate more energy than they consume.  Any physicist will tell you
that it will take more energy to produce food and transport it to the
humans
than will ever be gotten from the humans.  The humans are an energy sink.
It doesn't matter how high-tech the machines supposedly are.  You can't
overcome the laws of thermodynamics.

******
29 October 2003
4

Let's face it folks take away all the fancy shmancy special effects and
what
are you left with? An average at best action movie. I never bothered to
watch the sequels as they looked like crap from the previews and with this
one still in my memory I decided there was nowhere to go but down.


******
27 October 2003
6

Original Review Posted to IMDb 2001. Newer Review Submitted November 27th,
2003.--I watched "The Matrix" for the fourth or fifth time last night, and for the
fourth or fifth time I wasn't able to fully comprehend its wild success. I
understand that it is essentially a good film, with very impressive visual
effects, and that it has some underlying themes and metaphors for our
current world culture mixed with the kind of stuff people go to the movies
for...but I can't bring myself to give it more than 4.5/5 stars. That may be
a very good rating, but this is a movie that took me four or five viewings
to even learn to really like it. The end seemed quite enthralling this time
around, but the beginning of the movie, for me, just lacks a bit of
something.The plot: Our world, as we know it, is a computer simulation called The
Matrix. In "the real world," we are all "grown" in long fields where
machines of the future look over us and put us into little pods where we are
hooked up into the simulation matrix and entertained until our
death.As our minds believe we are in this alternate world, the machines use our
bodies for sources of energy. A mysterious man named Morpheus holds up a
Duracell battery at one point during the course of the film and states that
we are merely another one of these. But the film starts with Neo, a man who
lives an alternate life--one of honesty and one of crime. He is an Internet
hacker and has been guilty of virtually every known hacker
crime.But Neo feels that the world surrounding him is somehow wrong. He doesn't
like the idea of fate because it means that he can't control his own
destiny. An so an infamous criminal named Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne)
picks up Neo, hoping that he may be The One, the man whose destiny is to
free the minds of everyone living in The Matrix and bring an end to the
machines' rule of the real world.Of course, this won't be easy, as Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving, who can now be
seen in all three "The Lord of the Rings" films) is a computer program
loaded into The Matrix--his mission is to stop the uprising and to capture
Morpheus and his gang, which also includes Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) and
Cypher (the always enjoyable Joe Pantoliano).Keanu Reeves may not be able to act, but his character is part of the new
generation computer freaks and geeks. Needless to say, he fits the part.
Laurence Fishburne ("Apocalypse Now") is good as the mysterious and
all-knowing Morpheus. His character's lasting image was a bit tarnished by
the film's 2003 sequel, "The Matrix Reloaded," as an element of him was lost
when we found out that he isn't quite as respected back in Zion (the land of
the free).But the real stand-outs are Joe Pantoliano and Carrie-Anne Moss as
Trinity--he's the comedic relief, she's a strong leader who falls for Neo.
And unlike the Charlies Angels gang, she actually looks as if she could
knock out twenty guys and live to tell about it. She's tough, blunt and the
ultimate on-screen tom boy. "The Matrix" currently holds the number 34 spot on the Internet Movie
Database's list of the top 250 films ever made. I've certainly seen better
films than "The Matrix," and The Wachowski Brothers, who directed the film,
seem to have borrowed a lot of past techinques in filming (the bleak look of
"Se7en," the metaphorical significances of "Star Wars," etc.). But this last
viewing proved to be a lot more fun than previous viewings--perhaps because
for once I let my mind make its own decision and avoided it being
influcenced by the standing of the film on lists and so on. Expectations
were too high when I first saw this film. And they still are. But perhaps a
few more viewings will make this movie really grow on me. I sure do hope
so."The Matrix" is the type of film you should witness without prior
expectations.4/5.

******
18 March 2005
4
This movie is a love it or hate it type of movie. Not because of how
original it is but because, once you see how bad it is and don't like
it you begin to dislike it even more after seeing how overrated this
is. The acting is below average, the story isn't all that great, the
special effects are good but arnt original. For instance most people
think this film created *bullet-time* but it was used in many films
before this was even written including Blade. I also didn't like Blade,
but its more original than this. Sci-fi movies were crappy for about
five years after the release of this and are just now recovering. Maybe
my 2/10 is a little underrated. I think it probably deserves at least a
4/10.

******
13 October 2004
4
The Matrix took everybody by surprise back in 1999 but after the
initial euphoria there was very little left to say about this movie
which is, I believe, way over-rated. True, the special effects had a
new look but that's pretty much all there is to it. Now those SFX are
cliché and close to ridiculous. Look at Terminator II, now over twelve
years old, the SFX are still ahead of today's standards.The story is basically a cross-over between the Terminator plot (also
Blade Runner and a lot more sci-fi movies with the mankind overrun by
machine and artificial intelligence idea) and the Dark City setting and
ambiance (trench coats, an artificial city). This lack of originality
is why, in my humble opinion, the movie's sequels didn't do as well.
The acting is OK but far from good and the directing is the same as
most 'hollywoodian' movies from the last ten years (IE lacking personal
style. Seriously, what's the difference between a Wachowski bros. flick
and a Roland Emmerich one?).I've tried to watch it again on several occasions but usually I end up
fast forwarding to the main action scene and then turning the movie off
and then I get the feeling that that scene resumes the entire movie; a
lot of noise about nothing.

******
22 March 2002
4

"The Matrix" is a decent and entertaining movie that is only viewed as
something more than that by those who haven't seen better.The story borrows heavily from other films and tries real hard to convince
it is more than your average sci-fi/action movie.  It's not.  Keanu Reeves'
acting is better here than in anything he has done before or since, but
that's not saying much.  He does not make a good leading man and is easily
eclipsed by the supporting cast (mainly Laurence Fishburne).My suggestion is if you want to see The Matrix then see it and enjoy it,
but
then go out and see far superior movies like "12 Monkeys" or even the "The
Cell". 

******
24 February 2000
4

After watching a movie which some call "The best sci-fi film of the
Millennium" I had this serious and uncontrollable urge to go in depth and
examine it to the last piece. You can ask me "Why can't you just seat back
and receive pleasure?" I can. But not when it comes to movie which is
called
cult.The special effects were good. But the only reason they were made is
to
create a show. Check out the eXistenZ - I don't think there were any
computer animated effects at all, but you get a full feeling of another
reality.What's really bad is a plot of the film. This is supposed to be a
movie
were the Good Guys are fighting the Bad Matrix. But what Matrix is bad is
questionable. It takes away people's freedom to control their lives but
allows them to live in a bright sunny world, when the real world is dark
ruins, ugly closing and food that looks and tastes like plastic. Some
people
could say that the Matrix is doing a good deed.Not to mention that using a people's bodies as a batteries is not
very
effective, you have to feed them and that's a real waste of
energy.Absolutely unnecessary thing in this film is a Kung Fu. If you can
bend
spoons and duck bullets with the power of your mind, you don't need any
martial arts. It was made only to put some action into
film.And the worst thing is a prophecy about the "Chosen-One". Neo was the
"Chosen-One" all the time and it doesn't matter if Trinity would fall in
love with him or not. He had his abilities, he trained them and it's
logically to assume that he would get them. But no! He fully gets them
only
when Trinity says she loves him. Yes, it was in Oracles prophecy, but
don't
You think that the things You can do are not depend from what other people
think about You? This is really falls apart, and this is a major moment in
movie.To avoid any farther damaging of a Matrix fan's feelings, I must say
that this movie is not all that bad. It's a good show and you can really
enjoy it, but please, don't call it "The best sci-fi film of the
Millennium"!
Go see Alien instead.My mark - 4 out of 10.

******
6 April 1999
4

Yet another film from the school of thought that thinks special effects
compensate for no plot or character development.  At least Keanu isn't
given
an opportunity to act; that really would have made this film horrendous.
Instead, it's an o.k. action film that has its fun effects and its dull
moments.  Consider it a lukewarm appetizer before Star Wars opens next
month.

******
4 November 2005
4
The Matrix is quite possibly the lamest cultural phenomenon since The
Blair Witch Project. It's all polish and no substance. Frankly I don't
find any redeeming qualities to this film franchise at all.Lots of big flashy fight sequences with no context. Lots of high-tech
special effects with no character. Lots of plot complexity with no
heart.I plain and simply do not get what all the fuss was about.And it took me multiple tries to watch this film end-to-end without
falling asleep in the middle. The whole sequence of Morpheus teaching
Neo about the Matrix put me to sleep every time.Horribly overrated. In ten years people will look back on this and say
"what in the world was I thinking?"4 out of 10.Barky

******
22 July 2004
4

I think this movie will be forgotten pretty fast. The first time I saw
it, I was stunned by the bullet time and the "real-ish" combat. But all
in all, it's a very shallow film. Neo is about as interesting a
character as a dead fish (not counting Finding Nemo, which probably
could have contained a dead fish more interesting than the character
Neo), an Morpheus, Smith, Trinity, all of them, Switch and.. oh, did I
mention all the characters? They are boring. And the story is very
silly. Come on - humans as batteries, programs with families?? Who
designed this matrix-thing anyways? It must have been an idiot! The
plot barely survives the first time 'round - second time you watch it -
it fails. The sad part is that this film is being dragged down in the mud with
the two sequels that have been made for the sake of sequels with a
combined narrative of about a minute. Worse examples of "and
then"-scripts are only found in Steven Seagal-movies. (except the
action which is very amusing - Neo beating up a couple of Smiths with a
Smith..)


******
10 June 2004
4

I'm waiting, like a vulture, for this movie to become dated. And it
will. The club scene, the sunglasses, the fashions, the cell phones -
oh yes, one day it will all look and sound unbearably corny. And then,
we'll have to actually pay attention to the script and the acting (or
lack thereof). And we will realize that this movie reeks.For an action film, it's remarkably dull, with the first half basically
consisting of a looong string of complex explanations. It doesn't help
that Neo is a totally flat character. If I'm to care that he's trapped
in the Matrix, I need to see more of his life there. Sadly, one scene
of Neo at work, being berated by the boss, does not a fascinating
character make. I also think it was a terrible mistake to make him a
programmer, since he already understands the nature of computers and
should, therefore, be more receptive to the idea of the Matrix instead
of consistently incredulous. And am I supposed to believe that this
master hacker doesn't know what an EMP is?The film is also terribly derivative. Morpheus is an even more gaseous
version of Yoda, and Neo is clearly based on Luke (promising young man
discovers super-powers and helps rebels overthrow their nasty
oppressors). The visual style is ripped off from the Alien movies, as
is the snake-like parasite that somehow manages to burst through Neo's
bellybutton without leaving a mark. The evil agents clearly evoke The
X-Files, the notion that mankind is enslaved by robots in an
apocalyptic future comes straight out of The Terminator, and - most
damningly of all - the concept of a virtual reality environment called
the Matrix had featured some 23 years earlier in an episode of Doctor
Who ("The Deadly Assassin"). Maybe the Matrix didn't consciously rip
off all of these sources, but it's certainly worth noting that this
movie is utterly unoriginal in every respect but its action photography
(and that will, like all the rest, probably date badly).Needless to say, Reeves is pretty bland, and Fishbourne is just plain
embarrassing in his first scene (it doesn't help that his every dire
line is punctuated by a melodramatic bolt of lightning). Only
Carrie-Anne Moss's Trinity comes up smelling like a rose, and it's good
to see such a strong role for a female character - though I think she
should've been the hero, as she's got more charisma than everyone else
put together.I was quite disturbed by the metal detector scene, as it appears to be
nothing more than a particularly violent video game sequence that's
meant to inspire future generations of random crazy shooting maniacs.
It's worth mentioning that the security guards who are so callously
slaughtered by Neo and Trinity are not evil, just thralls of the
Matrix, like Neo had been merely days before. Why, therefore, does he
have no qualms about blowing them all to bits? Tacky, man - really
tacky.I enjoyed Joe Pantoliano's character, probably because he was allowed
to have an actual set of motivations and opinions, whereas the other
characters are just filler. And you know, a few segments were
effective; the Oracle has real presence. But the film is basically a
dog, and while it pretends to cast all kinds of light on the problems
with modern society, at the end of the day it's a stupid action movie
that raises interesting issues, then resolves them with ridiculously
OTT karate battles.As a movie, The Matrix is decent entertainment. As sci-fi, it's
derivative and sloppy. As philosophy, it's risible, misleading, and
poorly informed junk.


******
30 September 1999
10
December 2010 update. I just saw this on Blu-ray for the first time.
Simply marvelous movie, and some might make the case that this is the
best movie ever made. This is a review of "The Matrix" on DVD.If you like sci-fi action movies, this is certainly one to watch, even
to own. For what it is, I give it a "10". It kept me wide-eyed all the
way through. I'm sure I'll be saying the same thing after my 20th
viewing, sometime in the year 2015. (Update: it is now 2005, and I have
seen it maybe 5 times, still a great, ground-breaking movie!) (Second
update: It is now 2007, I just saw it again and came away even more
impressed, especially when I compare it to the 1500 or so movies I have
seen since first viewing 'The Matrix.' Truly and simply one of the best
and thought provoking movies ever made.)The DVD picture is perfect all the way through, and the 5.1 surround
sound is quite thrilling. But, the "extra" features are a big reason to
buy the DVD.One "extra" is the whole movie played at a subdued sound level while
the editor, special effects supervisor, and actor comment on their own
reactions and explanations of various scenes.Another "extra" is playing the movie in normal mode where a white
rabbit appears during certain scenes. If you want to see how that scene
was filmed, you can click when the white rabbit appears and it will
take you to the "behind the scenes" shooting. Then the movie resumes.There also is a featurette which shows how the entire movie was filmed.
Or, you can play the musical soundtrack alone.All in all, a great action sci-fi movie with the most interesting set
of "extras" I have seen so far on a DVD. Isn't it amazing how much
stuff they get on that small disc that only holds about 70 minutes of
music in its CD version!!

******
10 April 1999
2

`I hate those movies based on special effects with a poor plot,' I told
my friend when he suggested me to go see `The Matrix' on its opening night.
But when I kept hearing excellent reviews of the movie, my curiosity
increased, and I decided to give it a try. Well, I was right: not only I did
not enjoy the movie, but I also could not wait to rush out of the movie
theater.First of all: the PLOT was truly poor, and it is clear that most of the
scenes were designed merely to show special effects, rather than to transmit
a precise message (and at least twenty minutes of the movie could have been
cut because of this). The first rule of screenwriting is to satisfy the
audience's need for orientation, clarifying since the very beginning who are
the characters of the movie, and what is their function. I had to wait an
hour to understand that. This method (increasing the suspense of this
audience by postponing a real explanation of the characters' roles) could
have been effective, only if they were introduced in a more clear way. I
often felt lost, as many key aspects of the movie were clarified too late
(i.e. the phone transportation).The DIALOGUES were truly lame and unoriginal (except for some funny
references to the Wizard of OZ).The CHARACTERS were not developed at all. Still now, thinking about the
movie, I cannot really say what was a peculiar trait of each character:
their personalities did not stand out at all. They were rather divided into
the stereotypical `good' and `bad' categories.Still mentioning STEREOTYPES, I think the whole movie was a TT (Temple of
Testosterone): the ideal place for the satisfaction of a male audience. Why?
Because of great fight scenes, vigorous men with a perpetual grimace who
want to either save or `own' the world, women with big breasts who don't
talk (the woman in red), and strong but yet submissive women driven by
sentimentality (Trinity).What I SUGGEST is to go see it if you like video games and want some
entertainment. But if you are one of those persons who want to step out of a
movie theater with a new awareness or  even better  a call to action, I
suggest you'd save the 8 bucks for a better cause. 


******
15 February 2002
7

When I first saw the Matrix a few years ago, I thought it was a pretty good
flick, but as I watched it more and more, I began to realize that the film
ripped off from a variety of films such as the computer-animated
masterpiece
Tron and the intelligent action film Face/Off to name a few. Now, most
people think this film is intelligent, but I thought that is was incredibly
long and was almost entirely plotless. It's a shame at how the characters
act so serious that you don't know what they are talking about. Another
problem I have with the Matrix were the incredibly overrated effects. First
of all, I can't understand why the Matrix won the Visual Effects Oscar over
the Phantom Menace, which took much more effort and used much more
technology. I see so many unoriginalities with the Matrix's effects. People
who think that the Bullet Time effects were original and told the story,
you
obviously haven't seen the slow-motion bullets in Face/Off, which I
personally found more eye-catching. And for people who think that the story
about a computer programmer entering a virtual reality world, you obviously
haven't seen the Walt Disney masterpiece Tron, which, by the way, had far
more groundbreaking technology for its day than the Matrix's effects had
when it was first made. Overall, the Matrix is one of the most overrated
films I've ever seen and had more attention than it actually deserved.
Grade: D

******
23 February 2004
4

OK- don't get me wrong this was a groundbreaking movie. However I have
some
serious problems with it.First the good. The action scenes and special effects are awesome. They
really did set new standards and knocked that hackneyed load of tripe The
Phantom menace into the bin. The ending is also fantastic- there is no way
that an ending this perfect was meant to be followed by two mediocre
sequelsHowever, The plot is more full of holes than a fishnet stocking. For
instance- I know this is nit picking- but how can Cypher be betraying the
crew when not only do they have to plug him into the matrix for him to go
and meet the agents in the first instance, but are also monitoring said
conversation.Secondly- the philosophical parts. The matrix basically asks the question
is
it better to live the dream. The flaw comes in that in this case it is
quite
clearly better- great, so mankind is not "free" but each person lives a
sufficiently realistic existence inside their own head for it not to
matter.
If the alternative is living in fear and squalor, dodging sentinels whilst
eating what looks like congealed semen then I would frankly rather live
inside my own dreams dining on fine food etc.Next up, the acting. Could someone please explain to me how Keanu Reeves
is
a leading man. He single handedly trashes all the good work put in by the
supporting cast- especially Laurence Fishburne and Hugo Weaving. Anyway
how
can I be expected to take a film seriously where Keanu is effectively
god?Overall, a reasonable film but not the second coming of Christ so many
people think it is.


******
9 December 2000
6

I didn't dislike this movie.That said, I just have a few problems with it. 
I'll start with the cast. Where in the world did they find actors so badly
on par with Keanu Reeves? Amongst the 'pretty boy' actors in Hollywood, he
is the prince of the wood face. Clint Eastwood may have more expression. All
of the actors, with the possible exception of Larry Fishburn, who I have
seen in other roles that were good, are as stiff as a corpse. None of Neo's
pals need to be in this film. They are totally uninteresting and
unnecessary. Apoc? Switch? Mouse? Why? These people have the personalities
of a smock. At least the two brothers serve the purpose of getting them in
and out of the Matrix and driving the ship. The others are there to look
good, and they missed on that too.And why so much needless violence? All these 'cops' they kill are just
people suppossedly stuck in that gooey jell you get out of the 25 cent
vending machines, right? So, Neo and his babe go around and kill a bunch of
helpless, innocent people. Those guys were just minding their own biz when
they burst in with an arsenal that rivals that of Rick James's.And then there are the scary characters. They range from the emotionless
'smiths' to that of those creepy kids who bent spoons and made me wax
sentimental about unicef for some reason.
In fact, the Smiths were the best 'acted' roles, but I think that's because
they had the least to stretch since they were the bad guys.I can't even get into the plot holes, since there is a word limit, but there
were a lot. This whole movie is beyond improbable. But, it's worth a viewing
or 2. Check it out if you got a friend who wants to blow there money one
saturday night.

******
9 November 2001
10

The Matrix is a stunning, fast paced movie with lots of great special
effects, high action, and a great soundtrack.But...is that all it is?No.  It isn't.When I listen to people talk about this movie, or read reviews by people
who
don't like it, the main problem they seem to have is the the plot, which
they claim is mind-numbing, inaccessible, or just plain dumb.  They claim
that the reason the movie is so popular is because if the special
effects.Those who make these claims are just a little clueless, and the true art of
storytelling is lost on them.Here's why.  Every story that we see on screen, read in a book or on the
web
has been told before in one fashion or another.  "Jurassic Park" is nothing
more than a retelling of "Frankenstein" when you get right down to it.
What
catches our attention is when the story is re-told in such a different
light
that we like the retelling without really being called back to an earlier
version.  The "Jurassic Park example can work again for this point.  No one
sees it as another retelling of "Frankenstein" at all, or at least, they
don't dwell on the issue.  Shakespeare didn't create any stories....he
borrowed from other texts, used other sources, and used words to his
advantage.  The whole thing involves what is called "intertextuality", a
term that I won't go into here, but is what I am trying to explain in the
brief example of "Jurassic Park."Okay, stop yawning.Now, the Matrix has done the same thing, and what is funny is that very,
very few people have recognized the major source of the story ( I wonder if
the writers really know ).  I have heard that it is supposed to be
Christian
themed, and while there is some imagery in that respect, like a character
named Trinity, Neo's death and rebirth at the end of the movie, the ship's
name, etc. etc. etc., the list can go on.  But it has nothing to do with
the
story, which borrows very heavily from a philosophy written by Plato, of
all
people, back when the years were still labeled as BC.Plato wrote a philosophy, the actual name escapes me, but I keep hearing it
referred to as "The Cave."  In this philosophy on the workings of a
society,
Plato stated that if you were to take four people from the day they were
born, tie them to chairs so that their heads cannot move, and place them in
the back of a cave where they cannot see the opening, nor have any
daylight.
They only have contact with each other.  Now, on the wall that they are
facing, they can see shadows moving, be it a shadow puppet play, or
whatever
you can imagine, but all they see are those shadows.  You leave them in
this
cave for 20 years.  The only life that they know is the chair, and the
playing of shadows on the wall.  They will not know the shadows are merely
shadows, nor will they know the idea of freedom, and they will now know
anything of the real world.  Then, you release one man, let him wander the
world for awhile.  He sees that the world isn't just shadows on a wall, etc
etc.  If you put him back in the cave, he will not view the shadows the
same
way that he once did.  He will also try to enlighten the other three that
the images on the wall are only shadows, and that there is a beautiful and
colorful world outside their cave.  But they will not believe him, and will
even begin to see him as a blasphemer, and an enemy.WHEW!!That's the basic story in the Matrix.  Neo has been removed from the cave,
and has seen the real world, and now knows he has been seeing shadows his
entire life, and his mission is to make humanity realize that they are
seeing shadows as well, but until that time, he will be regarded as an
enemy
by those still inside the cave.  The agents are the keepers of the cave,
and
the Matrix itself is the shadows that we see.  When you see this
connection,
the story can make more sense to those who can't quite understand
it.And so by blending old, old stories with modern filming techniques and
great
acting by all involved and fast paced action, there is something to be said
about this movie being a work of art, because it truly
is.

******
9 January 2001
2

I really can't understand all of the accolades that this film continues to
receive.  Has the entire world gone insane and forgotten that what makes a
good movie is its script.  Has everything become about special effects,
special effects and more special effects?   Sure, if you want special
effects, this is definitely the movie for you.  If I was writing this
entry
for the Special Effects Message Board, I would have given it a 10/10
rating.
But frankly, I need more than great visuals to have a movie work for me
and
as this film has nothing else, it gets a 1 rating.I know my rating won't dissuade the masses from singing the praises of
this
movie.  I know that my rating won't stop the inevitable outcome of Matrix
II
becoming the highest grossing film of all time during its opening weekend.
Perhaps the only thing this review will do is lead like minded people in
the
direction of other movies that deal with similar themes yet actually have
characters that you will care about.Let me make clear, that the core concept of Matrix is a great one.  The
whole idea of our world being part of someone else's imagination is
something that has fascinated me for as long as I can remember.  When
Matrix
originally debuted, you couldn't have paid me to stay away from the
theater.
Someone had finally put one of the great philosophic debates into movie
form and I knew that it had to be incredible.   Instead, the only thing
incredible about the film (beside the special effects) was how wrong I had
been.There on the screen was a movie without any real screenplay.  No matter
how
much I tried, I couldn't bring myself to care about these characters
because
they just weren't real.   You would think that in a film dealing with
reality-as-you-know-it crumbling around the main characters, that there
would be some exploration into how the newly revealed reality affected
their
psyches.   But that doesn't happen here.  Instead, we are given a movie
where the emphasis is placed upon stocking up on as many guns and other
weapons as possible so that the bad guys can be shot and killed.   Give me
a
break!!!I think what has happened in these type of movies is that the producers
are
handed a great idea and then spend their entire budget on the actors and
special effects.  They don't bother to spend anything on the screenplay
because they have realized that good ones aren't necessary anymore.  Just
give the public some nice CGI and they'll flock to the theatre.
Unfortunately, they seem to be right.   Movies like Matrix and and the
Jurassic Park series continue to sell out even though the stories are
horrible.  Give us a cool CGI Dinosaur running around a city or make the
lead characters do CGI kung-fu moves and we'll go home happy.   Never mind
that we have absolutely no insight into who the main characters are.  We
don't need to care about them as long as they are involved in computerized
situations!   (Did anyone actually give a damn whether Jeff Goldblum's
character lived or died in Lost World?)Anyway - my point is that you can certainly make a film exploring ideas
and
concepts similar to those in these mega movies and still have the audience
care about the characters.In the case of Matrix, for those interested in a good
"reality-as-you-know-it"
type of movie, I would suggest Josef Rusnak's 'Thirteenth Floor' or even
better yet, if you can handle sub-titles, Alejandro Amenabar's "Open Your
Eyes".   Both of these movies manage to give you an incredible story, with
characters you will remember long after the credits have rolled.  Believe
it
or not, you'll actually find yourself wondering about the characters'
futures rather than simply commenting on how cool that CGI generated
flip-in-the-air was.Good movies are supposed to leave you with questions. They are supposed to
make you think.  You didn't really have to do that with Matrix, and its a
shame because the movie could and should have been so much more than it
ended up being.In my opinion, Matrix was a waste of both time and money.  I will just
keep
praying that one day the movie going public will give up on these special
effects monsters and turn back to the days of enjoying movies with plots.
On that day, films like "Open Your Eyes" will finally get their due and
Hollywood will stop giving us mere eye candy like Matrix and similar
ilk.


******
23 November 2013
6
The human city of Zion defends itself against the massive invasion of
the machines as Neo fights to end the war at another front while also
opposing the rogue Agent Smith. Neo and the rebel leaders estimate that
they have 72 hours until 250,000 probes discover Zion and destroy it
and its inhabitants. During this, Neo must decide how he can save
Trinity from a dark fate in his dreams. Neo discovers that somehow he
is able to use his powers in the real world too and that his mind can
be freed from his body, as a result of which he finds himself trapped
on a train station between the Matrix and the Real World. Meanwhile,
Zion is preparing for the oncoming war with the machines with very
little chances of survival. Neo's associates set out to free him from
The Merovingian since it's believed that he is the One who will end the
war between humans and the machines. What they do not know is that
there is a threat from a third party, someone who has plans to destroy
both the worlds.

******
3 August 2013
4
Not as clever and innovative as its reputation and certainly not as
clever and innovative as it thinks it is, 'The Matrix' is an overrated
mish-mash of SF ideas we've seen in 'Star Trek', 'Doctor Who', 'Total
Recall' and the 'Terminator' films (even L. Ron Hubbard's 'Battlefield
Earth' gets a look in) dressed up in leather coats and sunglasses. The look is admittedly cool, and the first half is engaging enough, but
come ON people, this is nothing but two hours of Morpheus spouting
laughably meaningless wind-baggery to hollow characters; action
sequences imported from Hong Kong that utilise the famed 'bullet time'
effect far less than you'd think (most of the action is filmed in sub-
Woo slo-mo with bullet cases popping out of guns); occasionally abysmal
dialogue littered with clichés; and a plot that runs out of borrowed
ideas after the first hour and becomes increasingly routine. It's pretty tiresome stuff. Sometimes it excites, mostly it's just
surprisingly dull.

******
1 May 2013
6
I personally find the first Matrix movie a little overrated. It's not a
bad movie, I would just recommend other sci-fi movies before this one.
The premise is the film's strongest point. You are so intrigued by it
that you have to see how this could possibly end. It does lead to some
very exciting shoot outs and special effects, and Laurence Fishbourne's
performance is something to be said about. Yet, it feels very muddled
at times, like you get the feeling of "What did I just see?". Keanu
Reeves is actually not as bad in this movie as one might think, but
it's passable when compared to Morpheus. All in all, see it if you want
to, because other people have much better things to say about it than I
do.

******
13 November 2012
10
Ultra-stylish Techno-Noir classic that is broad on concept and design
and creates a novel realm of realism vs cerebral creation. This is
groundbreaking visual stuff and is backed by extraordinary
electronic/metal music and really cool sets.It is a visual and literal "Rage Against the Machine" that is fully
realized in its display of a deadpan humor and dead-on violence. This
was the ride of the decade and brought a new look to the new
millennium.It's not without some flaws and faults, mainly that the matrix is so
complex and complicated that its own concept had to be "bent and
broken" to allow for some of the story to translate to an acceptable
theatrical experience. At least to its targeted mainstream audience. In
the hands of a quirky and edgy Director it could have been done with
more "in house logic", but then it would be quite a different
experience.The whole concept of a Messiah and "The One" is kind of elementary in
an extreme exploitation such as this but that only drops it a notch
from the best of Sci-Fi and does nothing to hold this exhilarating
experience back from being quite entertaining, if on a lesser level.

******
5 March 2012
10
'The Matrix' is Truly a Legendary film, that offers SOLID
Entertainment. From start to finish, this cult-classic leaves you
spell-bound by its delicious writing material, stylish direction,
amazing action & killer performances.'The Matrix' Synopsis: A computer hacker learns from mysterious rebels
about the true nature of his reality and his role in the war against
its controllers.'The Matrix' is one of my favorite films. I've seen it a dozen of times
& when-ever I re-visit it, it only gets better. It's a solid
entertainer, that is simply spell-binding.Andy Wachowski & Larry Wachowski's Screenplay & Direction, both deserve
top-honors. Their Screenplay is delicious, while, Their Direction is
damn stylish. The entire execution to this box-office blockbuster
deserves full marks. Action-Sequences are simply, amazing.
Cinematography is flawless. Editing is neat. Art Design & Graphics are
incredibly done.Performance-Wise: Keanu Reeves as Neo, delivers one of his best
performances in here. He's in top-form! Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus,
is fantastic! Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith, is superlative. Carrie-Anne
Moss as Trinity, does well. Joe Pantoliano as Cypher, is impressive.
Julian Arahanga as Apoc, is decent. Gloria Foster as the Oracle, leaves
a mark.On the whole, 'The Matrix' is Cinema At Its Finest!

******
31 December 2011
6
This is in my opinion one of the most overrated films ever. I
understand it revolutionized special effects but the rest of it is
fairly average. The story didn't really get me. I understood it but I
just didn't find it that interesting. Keanu Reeve's acting is wooden as
hell and no one else stands out. The film is also quiet slow and not in
a good way it is an action movie and they should be fast paced. I think
there are much better action films like Inception and Die Hard. However
I think a lot of people will disagree with me but this is my review.
All in all not as good as I was hoping it would be it did however come
out in a good year for films. Films from 1999 that I think are good are
American Beauty, The Blair Witch Project and of course Fight Club.

******
10 July 2011
9
I remember how blown away my friends and I were, when we went to see
this movie the week it came out. The city, hell the whole country, was
abuzz with excitement and amazement at the special effects and the
daring surreal theme of this movie. We witnessed firsthand a movie's
launch to the realm of global movie classics. Nothing like it had been
attempted with the possible exception of Steven Spielberg's works. So
many have since copied in one form or another the groundbreaking
special effects. No movie and less so no collection of movies
(trilogies and the likes) have tackled the religious metaphor that is
"The Matrix" with as much calculating foresight and contemporary
high-tech intuition as the Wachowskis.With productions like that of Inception, 2012, Avatar and others, which
escape me now, we would be almost blasé to special effects and theme of
the Matrix if it was released today, eleven years later. I just happen
to be scrolling a list of movie bests when I realized that it was not
in my movie collection (humble as it might be) and so I quickly
corrected this oversight. I then perused countless reviews of this
movie, out of curiosity; I could not help but notice how often the same
type of interest and passion was written in those other reviews. Eager
to add my two cents worth I jotted down this quickie review.The two sequels, as good as they were, but ratings do not match the
initial Matrix, did not deliver the same wowing response. In fairness,
the third Jurassic Park movie fared much better as groundbreaker
sequel, all things being equal. Also quite exceptional was Star Wars
Episodes I II and III produced over twenty years after the original. If
I keep writing, more readers may come to the conclusion that I'm an old
fart. I'm neither; I'm just a fan of movies.

******
3 July 2011
10
I have watched matrix movie, this is an absolute masterpiece.This is 
one of the best movies in the century. I have reviewed this movie 
in. Im a great fan of Kean. Computer programmer 
Thomas A. Anderson (Keanu Reeves) is secretly a hacker known by the 
alias "Neo". He is restless, and driven to learn the meaning of cryptic 
references to "the Matrix" appearing on his computer. An infamous 
female hacker called Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) confirms that a man 
named Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) knows the answers he seeks; 
however, three sinister Agents, led by Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving), 
arrest Neo and attempt to dissuade him from contacting Morpheus. 
Undeterred, Neo attends a secret meeting with Morpheus, who offers him 
a choice of two pills: A blue one that would return him to his old 
life, and a red pill that would allow him to learn the truth about the 
Matrix. Neo swallows the red pill, and he abruptly finds himself in a 
liquid-filled pod, his body connected by tubes and cables to a vast 
mechanical tower covered with identical pods. The connections are 
severed, and he is rescued by Morpheus and taken aboard his ship, the 
Nebuchadnezzar. Neo's atrophied physical body is restored, and Morpheus 
explains the situation.

******
28 June 2011
10
Of all of the Reality-Perception films of the 90's... Dark City, The
Thirteenth Floor... This film made the loudest noise and propagated
cell phone knockoffs, two sequels, and a very long-lived online Virtual
Environment/Game. And of course, it put Keanu Reeves, Carrie Anne Moss,
and Hugo Weaving on the map.I saw this film in Anaheim during it's first run, this film was
released during the Dot-Com blitz and was an Anthem for Pirates and
Hackers alike. Whole Usenet groups spring up overnight, and "There Is
No Spoon" was being painted in Subway Tunnels just like "Frodo Lives"
in the early 60's when Lord Of The Rings inspired cult-like activity."What if I give you the Finger --- And you give me my phone call"This portrayal of open defiance against "The System" and it's "Agents"
rallied people around the world to take up arms against corporate
idiocy everywhere, I was very pleased to identify with it."How can you talk when you have no mouth?" -The Corporate response to any attacks by "Little People" is to
basically cheat - In this film by literally removing Neo's Mouth.But Neo was the one who would be able to use the same Methods Matrix
Agents used, to beat the main Agent "Smith" who was a program that
developed an Ironically Human Hatred of Humans.There is so much in there, a lot of religion and philosophy is explored
in this short film. But so much has already been said about this film,
being a landmark event, there is nothing really much to add to what has
been said about it.But the idea that what we can see, hear, feel, smell, and taste might
just be fabricated for us by "God" or whatever, this was new to the
year these films came out. Like The Thirteenth Floor which was released
exactly one month after this was, this film presented the idea that we
are not really here at all, we could be somewhere else altogether...
And the idea of Virtual Reality is not really a concept of the 90's
computer age, it was conceived in the book "Simulacron 3" by Daniel F.
Galouye... I am not sure when this was written, back when he thought it
up, computers were comprised of huge vacuum tubes and were the size of
buildings, but somehow, Galoye saw into the future and that a kind of
Virtual Reality was possible using computers.Even today, as we are on the brink of having 3D HDTV's in our houses,
the reality of The Matrrix is not far away - If we are not already
caught in it, if we are not already living in a Matrix type
environment.And that is the question, isn't it? Because, it is all in our minds
anyway..."I know that this steak isn't real"But we can still eat it. So, even without spoons, I can still enjoy
this film 12 years after it was made. But it should have ended with
this one, there should never have been any sequels.

******
30 January 2011
8
Its movies like inception , that make us realize that what a cult film
the matrix is. Its concept bubbles with symbolism that's enough to set
your mind rolling for days together..and execution is nearly flawless.
It would have been 10 on 10 for me but just for the fact that although
Keanu is just perfect for Neo - the one,the earlier part were he is
just a mortal like us and the subsequent transformation (when he
becomes aware) is not that well acted and depicted.So one does really
feel emphatic for the character. Bur as the plot begin set in we are
entertained with action sequences that are just awesome. Set your eyes
and brain rolling..Enter the Matrix

******
13 December 2010
10
The movie The Matrix is a nearly non-stop action ride that also manages
to be a deep, thought provoking surprise. I would compare it to Blade
Runner but with a lot more action. It was first released in the spring
of 1999 and was one of the most visually ground breaking movies of its
time. It stars Keanu Reeves as Thomas Anderson (aka Neo), Laurence
Fishburne as Morpheus, and Carrie-Ann Moss as Trinity.The storyline is based on a world where man has created artificial
intelligence through massive machines. The very same machines turn on
the humans and humans become the slaves. The entire world is in a dream
like state unaware that they are simply living the life the machines
want them to believe they are living. Not all humans are trapped in the
artificial world, some such as Morpheus and Trinity; live outside on
the real planet. These free humans live a constant cat and mouse game
against the machines. They seek to "free" humans from the rule of the
machines and believe Neo to be the savior.One notable theme that occurs is to push against what is accepted in
society and to think freely. Another theme that some people see is more
of a religious tone but I see more than that in this movie. At first
Neo is unable to open his mind. It leads him to being captured because
he is scared to climb across a ledge. He has been "programmed" to
believe that he is really on a ledge and taking a risk he should not
take. Neo does what is expected of him and cannot except the world as
it is after he is initially freed. He even asks the question to whether
he can be put back into the dream world. This is a common struggle many
of us face at one time or another. Society tells us that something or
someway is the right way when our gut tells us that it is wrong. Going
against the norm is never an easy task.Many aspects of the scenes help to reinforce this message of Neo living
under a lie. Early on Neo is always in the dark and dim lit areas. It
isn't until he goes to work and speaks with Morpheus that the scene is
actually well lit. As if he beginning to wake up and realize what is
going on around him. After being freed he appears usually in a well lit
manor, even when he is aboard Morpheus's ship. The real world may not
be a happy place but it comes across more real. The angles of the
camera also seem to only view Neo from a distant outside perspective
while he is trapped in the dream world. Once he is freed much of the
camera work is a close up that draws you into the film. Both of these
features only improve the experience. I would recommend watching this
movie a few times just to be able to take everything in.

******
27 November 2010
10
There you have it, Matrix is one the best science fiction movie of all
time especially the first part. The entire plot puts in that movie
where you correlate with the protagonist right from the beginning.
Literally I have watched over a hundred times and I am still addicted
to it. Though some dialogs are cliché the storyline, the concept, the
action and the execution is flawless. The entire concept though implausible provides a glimpse of what our
future may have in store for us. It is more of a continuation of
Terminator 2 by James Cameron, which is another Sci-Fi masterpiece and
has some break-through special effects. In Matrix the characters are so
well formed that it really makes us believe in them and creates an
atmosphere on which lays the foundation of the movie itself. The spell
binding special effects is one of its kind and do introduce to the
famous bullet time effects that we saw in the game Max Payne.In short it is a masterpiece which will be enjoyed for generations.

******
28 October 2010
10
OK... I watched it and it was good... There.. I said it right now...
it's good... BUT WAIT..... THERE'S MORE I HAVE TO TELL YOU. (That was
retarded..) This movie was awesomely action packed. I just liked the
story. it's about This guy named Neo who is "The One" and has to fight
these bad guys. He joins the fight with Trinity and Morpheus and all
these other retards. And he fights the bad guys and Pwns them. Oh yeah!
Also i liked how trinity and neo were at the airport and dodged all
those bullets.. That was the coolest part ever. OK here's my rating for
The Matrix... Story: 10/10 Character: 9.5/10 Effects: 9.5/10 Overall:
10/10

******
5 October 2010
7
For sure this is one of the sci-fi movies that I prefer. Because it's
not like the usual prototype of this kind of films. In fact, the film Matrix has changed the point of view of all the
science fiction films that followed it.I knew that this movie wasn't a common one because of the beginning and
for the plot too, of course.The fact that the plot is kind of dark means that the director of the
movie has no hope for us into the future, for him the humans will be in
danger of death.I hope that the ones that see the movie enjoy it, like I had.

******
17 August 2010
9
The Wachowski brothers deliver a tasty sci-fi thriller that everyone
from bully to nerd can't resist. Reeves, who makes his one dimensional
acting work here, plays a computer hacker who is believed to be the
coming savior of a futuristic simulated reality controlled by
artificial intelligenceHugo Weaving almost steals the film as one of
these sentient machines. Chong, Fishburne, Moss and Pantoliano all do
an excellent job as the supporting cast of this classic joyride.
However, the remainder of the rebellion is extremely underdeveloped,
but the pros of the film are so great that they overshadow such a flaw.***½ (out of four)

******
16 July 2010
8
The Matrix,well what can I say the name gives it all away ; unusual, totally mind
bottling and a sense of the world, but not as we know it.A film, were everything, absolutely everything is unexpected. Although,
it gives the audience a thrill ride of the imaginable, but also keeps a
sense of fear lingering on as well.The cast is unexpectedly fantastic. Keanu Reeves presents this master
piece with such a powerful performance, it blows away the audience.
However, the audience saw another side to Lawrence Fishburne, who
presents himself with such poise within the film.If you're looking for a film that will entice you, look for the Matrix,
and see for yourself.

******
3 February 2010
10
The Matrix has got to be one of the greatest movies ever made. With
action, suspense, and brilliant acting it gives you a sense of what
this movie is like. It broadens the mind and asks ourselves one
question....are we all in a dream world? The Matrix chronicles the rise
of Thomas Anderson, played with good skill by Keanu Reeves and his
journey to becoming The One, sole saviour for the human Resistance in
their fight against the machines. Hugo Weaving is magnificent as the
villainous Agent Smith, with Carrie Ann Moss and Lawrence Fishburne
providing charisma as the no-nonsense Trinty and the mysterious
Morpheus.Why do I like this movie? Well the action scenes are well played out
with some of the best choreographed fight sequences i've ever seen.
Plus the fact that it questions the very nature of the human race and
broadens the mind really gives you something to think about. It is
truly a unique film and one that hopefully, you can all enjoy.

******
21 July 2009
9
The Wachowsky Brothers took many elements, from different cultures,
that they liked, put them in a blender and mixed them together. And the
Matrix is what came out. A great sci-fi movie, that has many elements
from other movies (and a theme we have also seen in horror movies), put
well together.While I'm not a big Keanu Reeves fan, he does convince here (as he did
in Speed). So while he is in action territory, there is always fun to
be had with him. Carrie Ann Moss and Laurence Fishburne have a great
supporting roles, although of course it is a more stylish adventure
than anything else. And while the movie leaves open quite a few
questions you might have, it works for the movie, being only told a
minimum amount of plot. The Keanu Reeves character acts as the viewer
as he is thrown in an unknown world. Being baffled and stunned by the
whole thing, this might be the reason his casting works so good ...Apart from that, the action is amazing (Yuen Woo-Ping, very well known
for his Asian/martial arts choreography's), the set pieces and the
dystopia feel of the movie is pretty convincing ...

******
26 June 2008
10
The Matrix is a modern classic, a great sci-fi film that is bound in
its approach in a number of ways. It is intelligent and thought, but
also great on an action/adventure level, giving us the famous bullet
time sequence.The film focuses on a computer programme, Thomas Anderson/Neo(Keanu
Reeves), who is interested in illegal activities and wants to find out
about the Matrix. He meets up with a group of people led by Morphus
(Laurence Fishbourne). It is then that he finds out that the world he
knows is not real and that it was really a computer programme to keep
the human population in subjugation. He learns that during the 21th
century man and machine went to war with each other, which the machines
won and kept humans alive as a power sorts. Neo was taken out of the
Matrix because it was believe that he was the one to save humanity.The film asks questions about fate and reality. It is influenced by
philosophical ideas from people like Plato. It also reminds me of 1984
during the torture scene when O'Brien tells Winston that the party can
alter history and reality with ease. I think as long as you are fairly
clever and read a little then you would understand it easily enough.
The Matrix is also influenced by Postmodernism where reality and images
can be alter and are very influential, but if you know this then you
yourself and change the world. It can also be seen as a criticism of
science and machinery going too far. The film is also very popular with
the cyberpunk sub-culture.This is a great film, but avoid the sequels like the plague, especially
the Matrix Revolutions.

******
26 February 2008
8
Don't get me wrong I respect the Matrix as a monumental achievement in
film making, but I think it's time to call attention to a aspect of the
film that nobody seems to care to mention. It's that the majority of
people the 'savoirs' kill in the film are not agents, not machines, not
sentinels, but cops. Sure you could right it off just by simply stating
what Morpheus pointed out. That as long as they are part of the system
that they are a dangerous enemy. But use your compassion people those
cops have families, and for every cop killed he leaves behind orphans.
Even the Terminator tried his best to make sure there were no
casualties when he shot things up- and he's a freaking machine!!! Are
we really so cold that we don't care that these cops die? Or maybe it's
just the minted glint on the cop uniforms that is put there through
careful editing to give the feel that these cops were symbols of
authority and oppression that takes away our sympathy for them. Or
maybe a lot of people don't like cops because of their pushy
no-nonsense attitudes. Even though most of them are brave men who would
put their lives on the line for someone they don't even know we still
don't feel the need stand up for them. In the lobby shootout scene
Trinity can be seen with a smirk on her face after having just mowed
down an innocent man. But why should I care? It's just a movie and is
there to entertain. And I'll probably watch it again since they play it
so often on AMC anyway, I just thought someone should mention this, and
that's what I just did.

******
20 October 2007
8
Sure, this film is over-rated, but it's still worth seeing for, well,
everything ! The action sequences are still fun to look at, the
messages are thrilling and the actors do a superb job ! This film does borrow a couple elements from other hit blockbusters
though: it's grim factor and backgrounds are very much like "Blade
Runner;" the "machine" world is very much like the shock value of "The
Terminator;" there is one scene that requires our main protagonist to
take either a red or blue pill ( "Total Recall"); Don Davis's musical
score is like a "Star Wars" score that is constantly frantic; the lobby
shoot-out reminds viewers of how intense the one in "Heat" was; there
is electronic/rock n' roll music playing in the background while people
in leathery capes kill other people who are dressed similarly ( "Blade"
); and, last of all, the entire movie also consists of symbolism to
Comic-Books and religion, which is also pretty classic ! Still, the film is undeniably a must-see before anyone here leaves this
world ( and hopefully doesn't end up in this one ! ) and deserves it's
acclaim.

******
2 June 2007
10
This film is one of 13 films I rated 10, because: 1) The story is excellent, with brilliant ideas and philosophy of
reality, existence, technology, faith, and choice. 2) Some good twists in the plot keep you wondering and thinking. 3) The special effects, hand/gun fighting scenes, and 360 degree
shooting is just great to watch and re-watch. 4) Most of the main characters overall well played, even the supporting
character, Cypher, is well acted. I personally like Trinity and
Morpheus over Leo. Trinity gives me a feeling of longing to be close to
her, and Morpheus project a big brother/master figure. 5) The theme about faith really comes across to audience. Your faith
can eventually determine your destiny, Amazing. 6) Last and the utmost factor, LOVE. It makes me keeps on pondering it.This film deserves to be one of my collection. May be yours, too.

******
3 May 2007
10
DOWNLOADING COMPLETED...FILE OPENING...What is the Matrix?How many times do we hear that phrase in the movie of the same name?
And do we really know everything we have to know on it once the movie
is finished? "The Matrix" owns many characteristics that could appear
inconceivable. Because it's at the same time a movie with an incredibly
complex story, a philosophical festival, an homage to many genres of
film and literature and an explosive blockbuster as well."The Matrix" is directed by two near unknowns, the Wachowski Brothers
(Andy and Larry), and stars Keanu Reeves as Thomas Anderson, a software
programmer whose main hobby is to hack different computer systems,
under the pseudonym of Neo.Neo soon meets Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) who learns him that the
world where he's living isn't real. It seems that it's rather a virtual
world created by the Matrix. So the Matrix would be an immense
artificial intelligence system that "sucks" the energy coming from the
humans and locks their minds inside a virtual world where the most
fundamental laws (such as the laws of physics) seem to be hardly
applicable.Morpehus believes that Neo is "the one", that is the person who owns
the power of stopping the Matrix and thus freeing humans from their
cybernetic prison. Morpheus brings Neo along with his crew towards a
Star Wars-like adventure in order to accomplish his destiny."The Matrix" is some kind of "Alice in Wonderland" set in the
electronic era. The parallels with the Lewis Carroll classic are very
obvious in the film and the Wachowski Bros. are fully aware that their
work can be linked to Carroll's.And like "Alice", "The Matrix" astonishes and entertains with its
infinitesimal quantity of surrealist elements that make the people
asking if it's possible to completely understand the movie (and/or the
world that it describes).In fact, "The Matrix" is nothing but a genuine feast of spectacular and
revolutionary special effects which already elevated the film to the
rank of legend. The movie makes a clever mix of techniques which
require the use of sophisticated computer programs, which is ironic
with the anti-technology message that prevails in the film. Some
passages strikingly reminisce the George Lucas odyssey. The difference
is that instead of traveling in the infinitely big, we travel in the
infinitely small.And the final addition to this virtual jaunt: nothing else than action
scenes directly taken from the oriental genres... Kung-fu sequences,
especially those which take part during Neo's training, evidently come
from Hong Kong martial arts films, while many other action scenes with
superhuman movements seem to come from Japanese mangas and anime.The whole movie lays almost entirely on presentation, and for once,
it's the only thing that is needed in order to provide a good movie.
Characters are cool, but too much two-dimensional to my taste. They can
thank their sunglasses. But it doesn't prevent them from being
interesting. Neo is the best example. We can feel his questioning, his
fear and also the acceptance of his fate throughout the progression of
the story. Honorable mention to Hugo Weaving who plays the sinister and
almost-unbeatable Agent Smith. In his case, his sunglasses don't make
him cool, but even more terrifying.Just like "Fight Club", released a few months later, "The Matrix" is at
the same time a pollution of explosions and fights and a philosophical
must. In the Matrix case, the viewer has to ask himself about the
notion of reality and the importance of machines on human life. This
latter theme is very popular nowadays because of the quick
industrialization process by the developed countries. Presented the
Matrix way, we want to get the farther from our computers... at least
for the moment...With its open end, it was obvious in 1999 that the movie would turn
into a full series. And it was the case with the release of two sequels
both in 2003. But nothing is worth the original... Because the sequels
usually use the same techniques and they're not as striking as the
first time we see them.Overall, "The Matrix" is a set of breathtaking special effects which
owns the merit of having a story that is solid enough to make all
pieces hold together. And it's not even worth searching to understand
everything. The only thing to do is to watch. And you won't be
disappointed. And remember that what you see is real (way of talking,
evidently...), so take benefit of it...FILE SHUTTING DOWN...

******
2 April 2007
10
This controlling central power (let's call it the Beast) is the
fundamental ailment we are in sore need of healing from. The movie The
Matrix is a metaphor of our own heroic struggle for liberty against the
Beast, and provides a hopeful message that vigorously stirs the blood
of freedom people.### The time is approximately 200 years from now, planet Earth. Early in
the 21st century, humans achieve functional artificial intelligence
(AI) which instead of leading to a comfortable human-machine
Singularity[1] results in an earth-razing cataclysm. Machines
(computers) 1: Humans 0.The machine uber-intelligence (MUI) that takes over is analogous to our
"Beast." In a licentious twist of any physics I'm familiar with, the
MUI needs energy, so it clones, incubates, and grows humans in vast
fields of sealed chambers to take advantage of their electrical
potential. Humans in name only: their consciousness is channeled via a
sophisticated neural network set up by the MUI to resemble Earth of
1999, i.e. the Matrix.[2] (You might ask why bother providing to these Eveready 'droids such a
dream world where they seem to grow, live, love, and die as generations
before them. You won, why not just turn their minds off entirely? Well,
apparently the pod people don't generate the BTUs if they're bored.) Not everyone in the Matrix is comfortable with the system. Thomas
Anderson, who goes by the hacker name Neo (Keanu Reeves) is one such
discontent. The few remaining real humans, led by Morpheus (Laurence
Fishburne), believe Neo is "the One" who will ultimately free humanity
from the Matrix and defeat the MUI.They locate Neo, convince him to unplug (take the red pill), then spend
weeks with him in training. The rebels hack into the Matrix where Neo
visits the Oracle (Gloria Foster). Before they can safely exit,
Morpheus is captured by agentsagents are the MUI's fearsome sentient
programs that enforce the Matrix.In the attempt to rescue Morpheus, Neo goes toe-to-toe with Super Agent
Smith (Hugo Weaving) in a scene reminiscent of the final showdown in A
Fistful of Dollars. Only the Wachowskis in addition to massive gunplay
send up exciting martial arts sequences and special effects that blow
you away.In case you're the one person who hasn't seen the movie yet, I won't
spoil the ending, except to say it's terrific.To me the movie strikes parallels to our real world and our struggle
against the Beast[3]. The Matrix itself is the epitome of our
quasi-Orwellian, TV-mind-controlled nation: Consider our Beast's
indoctrination systems (compulsory schools and the criminal justice
system) and propaganda ministries (mainstream media and academic
elites). Too many people enfold themselves into these pods of
conformity. Agents are analogous to our central-system soldiers and
cops turned against Constitutional liberty."The Matrix is a system, Neo. That system is our enemy. When you're
inside, you look around, what do you see? Businessmen, teachers,
lawyers, carpenters, the very minds of the people we are trying to
save. But until we do, these people are still a part of that system,
and that makes them our enemy. You have to understand most of these
people are not ready to be unplugged, and many of them are so inured,
so hopelessly dependent on the system that they will fight to protect
it."  Morpheus How different is this from America or the world? ...For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book
reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2007

******
3 March 2007
10
I'm writing this from outside the matrix, i've been unplugged from it
and some sentinels are right now breathing in my neck, but please,
watch this movie, is a message that we have sent from outside for you
to see the reality. what is real?, that movie is real?, you really
think that these incredible visual effects can be done by something in
your present reality?, and that these incredible fight scenes are real
too?, no, this movie has been made as a message for you! and the
quality of all is far from the capabilities of "your reality". Hey open
your eyes, you only have to see it for yourself!, what is the matrix?,
you want to stay there your whole life?, is your decision, i only can
show you the door, you have to pass trough it!.Hoping to see you soon......,..hey i almost forgot, knock knock! follow
the white rabbit.

******
28 September 2006
6
OK I didn't get it, but then again I don't live in a modern day
$250,000 honeycomb like most people in northern Virginia condominiums
who are more like the drones in this movie than they would like to
believe. This is a movie for people who think they are important
because they talk on cell-phones, make $100,000 a year selling snow to
the Eskimos, and have nervous breakdowns on the weekends. If you like
Applebees, happy hours, and live in a high priced housing development,
then you'll like this movie. For me it was incomprehensible middle
class mayhem. This movie seems to pander to the idea that machines are
the problem instead of belief in machines. Unfortunately, in an attempt
to recognize the worth of humans, this movie cuts out the humanity and
leaves its target audience feeling even more isolated than before. For
nonsensical science fiction psychobabble, though, it's actually a well
done, entertaining piece of fluff.

******
15 September 2006
7
A regular man (Keanu Reeves) learns a shocking truth about the world
and joins a rag tag group (Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Marcus
Chong and more) to save it.The Wachowski brothers are truly geniuses. Sadly, they lack in actual
WRITING talents (IMO obviously) and it just didn't click. They did a
fantastic job directing, but flopped in the script.The actors are great, and Laurence's gap tooth defined his character
for me, and the action scenes are the best in ages.It just would have been better if the Wachowski brothers got some one
else to write the script off of their ideas.But enough of the script. This movie is far from bad. It's great fun in
a group, you'll be on the edge of your seat, you'll have a blast.And it was a little too long, too. Oh well, maybe I just can't enjoy a
long movie no matter how good it is. But you'll enjoy this modern epic
of suspense and action!

******
19 December 2005
8
I took a respite from a busy week at work to see "The Matrix" last
weekend. I wasn't the only female in the audience. There was one other,
also a mother accompanying a mortified pre-teen son. Sure this is a video game come to life but it's surprisingly appealing
to women so would actually make a cool date movie.At first just the Keanu scenery is worth it (heck, I watched "Walk on
the Clouds" twice). But the women in the movie are cool too and the action is lots of fun.The critics all put down the plot as murky but I got a kick out of the
"what is reality?" stuff.(5/9/1999)

******
20 July 2005
10
The adaptation from the script to the movie itself! but... So sad that
the Wachowski brothers didn't even come up with the script. Sophia
Stewart came up with this script and she is noted as being The Mother
of The Matrix! Wachowskis used her work without her knowledge and for
that we all suffered! They suck!I don't appreciate the fact that they stole such uncanny ideas and used
them for their financial gain.The Wachowskis' were originally comic book writers searching for a
story in which they could adapt into a comic. Sophia submitted to them
her entire work (early 80s) not knowing that they would actually
attempt to shop it and steal it for themselves. Sophia Stewart attended USC Film School and wrote the script itself
back in the early 80s and copyrighted it in the latter part of 1984.
Her epic work was called The Third Eye. After the FBIs study of her claims of copyright infringement and theft.
They also found out that from her epic The Third Eye, also came the
story of THE TERMINATOR! Yes folks, it's true.Check your search engines and verify the claims and information, and
keep your eyes open on your television sets, because if you've been a
victim of a fraud and theft such as this, Sophia is fighting for you.

******
29 April 2005
10
I have studied biology and psychology and have master degree, now I
write my dissertation. Yes, I think there could be something about it.
Somehow, I can imagine all of this possible. I saw this movie many
times, and also the other parts of the trilogy. "There no action
without consequence. where others see coincidence, I see consequence;
where others see chance I see cost." these words of Merovengian i like
very much, because i feel he is right. One can find in this trilogy
whatever he wants. There is action, heroism, love, friendship, self
sacrifice, fate, belief, self confidence, honor, loyalty, as well as
technology, "violence", lots of guns in it. but it is anyones choice,
what he wants to see.

******
17 April 2005
10
When I first saw this movie (on DVD) I was so sick because I hadn't got
off my back side and gone to the movie theater when it was first run.I break this movie into three parts. The Action. The Story. The
Cinematography.The action in this movie was better then anything put out before its
time. For what its worth, the next best action movie I had seen before
was The Terminator. The Matrix blew it away. The karate training that
Morpheus leads Neo through is some of the most original things I have
ever seen. The helicopter crash seen was off of the hook, when the
glass broke on the building and the bass starts booming it makes my
heart jump a beat.The story is so complex and some would say it has more underlying tones
then Pulp Fiction. Over all the religious undertones where so easy to
miss with my first 10 viewings, but after reading up a bit on it jump
off the screen in later viewings. On the surface it seems this your
everyday ordinary man Vs. machine movie. But the factor of Neo being
Jesus Christ can not be avoided with a little research. Genius.The cinematography was better (and still might be the best) ever put on
film. The cameras, camera angles and views of them are amazing to say
the least. The scene when they are in the wet wall was shot from at
least 6 different angle, not to bad for a space of about 3 X 3.
Visually everything flows into each other. It is as beautiful as any
Vango painting I have ever seen.In closing, if you haven't seen this movie then what are you waiting
for? Don't expect to catch everything on the first run through. If you
are the type of person who wants all of the info about a movie in the
first 10 minutes, you will probably hate this movie. Those of us who
are patient got the payoff from this movie that should be at the top of
the 250 list.10++

******
14 April 2005
10
Being a self appointed "film critic" I like to pick holes in the plot
of a movie. I found The Matrix however was one of the most well written
sci-fi movies, if not of all movies of all time.Being fairly young, i first saw the film at an even younger age and
failed to appreciate the overall intelligence behind how The Matrix was
written, and for that matter; played out into motion picture.As for acting, i was wholly convinced by the impressions given by all
involved.Although not a frequent visitor to the comments section, i felt having
seen the average mark given to The Matrix, I had to do my bit!

******
28 May 2003
10

I've had it on DVD since it was released, and it just never gets old.
Yeah,
I'll skip through all the down-time spent in the "real world" cuz nothing
really excites me there, but, damn, when those action sequences rev up...
they blow me away every time. That's all. Thanks.

******
25 May 2003
9

When I saw The Matrix I thought it was Really good. But now since Ive seen
Reloaded I appreciate even more. The Matrix has very good visual effects and
has some decent acting. Keanu Reeves is not a great actor, he can be good
and can be bad. This is where he is good. Laurence Fishburne also turns in a
pretty good performance as Morpheus. Carrie Moss is also good as Trinity.
But the standout I think is Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith, he is excellent. I
give this movie a 9 out of 10. 

******
24 May 2003
10

Interesting world, impressive scenes of fights (especially the moments that
have been slowed are cool), very exciting, but also demands quite much from
the viewers in order to comprehend everything. I love powerful and
intelligent women like Trinity! The music is excellent, you have to see
this!

******
19 May 2003
10

I was a little child when Star Wars became a cult-classic, even powerful
enough to start a new religion like Jedi-ism.Maybe it's time for this generation to have their own cult-classic, a mind
blowing experience mixed with some best FX's ever made in a film.Morpheus is a master that we all long for in our miserable daily life and
Neo is an ideal path-follower who will become a hero soon.This film can answer all the expectations that you may have. Maybe it will
be outdated some 15-20 years later or maybe it will be understood that
every
little thing that is told in the film is the TRUTH itself.Don't only watch it. Live it. We're all in the Matrix..


******
19 April 2003
9

CONTAINS SPOILERS!! O YEAH!
A couple of unknown brotherhood of man directors makes this revolultionary
and simply stunning science fiction cool thing, weirdo,
stuff.Keanu Reeves is the man, yeah - he is Thomas Anderson / Neo and his very
upset sometimes. Laurence Fishburne is the smuchy little, sorry, big black
kung - fu man that loves his sunglasses and coat. Carrie - Ann Moss is the
beautiful, sexy and cool woman that lovely kills whoever comes in her way.
Hugo Weaving is the senseless and fairless agent Smith - okay, there you
got
them. Let's got for a ride!!!STORY: Thomas Anderson works in a software - company and is about to lose
his job cause off his way too many "too late appears". Why does he always
comes too late? That's because when the night falls on Thomas Anderson
becomes the intensive and smart hacker Neo that surfs the Internet looking
for Morpheus, a famous hacker. Then when the computer seeks him he gets
soon
dragged into something you simply can't belive without seing it with your
own eyes. He falls into the - yeah yeah, we've heard it before, real
world.
Here he gets to know that the world WE'RE all living in, is the Matrix - a
fake world! Now the world that they're living in, is real, a world with
flying in a kind of u-boat in the sewers of New York. So, but life is not
just nice there either. When they're in the Matrix they get into the world
by phone lines and by getting out they have to pick up a certian phone,
but
when a such called Deja Vu happens, you gotta stay sharp. Because then the
agents has entered the Matrix, and all they want. Is to kill the gang
(Morpheus, Trinity, Neo, Cypher - ). So if you're ready for it or not -
this
is really going to get tough! Get ready for bullettime, slow-motions,
special effects, martial arts and black clothes! This is REALLY
COOL!!!!!Andy and Larry Wachowski has succeeded in almost every way, yeah - with
their completely new kind of filming this movie is so stunning and cool
that
you just have to see it! Then back, the movie is not only nice and tough,
because it can be very heavy and boring so the meaning gets hidden away
sometimes sorry enough. But see it before you see the sequel, that's going
to be even better!

******
2 April 1999
5

If it wasn't for the special effects, I would have left the theater in the
middle of the film. I mean, this is one of those films whose dialogue is
so
lame, you just want to tell the actors to stop talking and start fighting.
I
thought Hugo Weaving was going to be good, until I got sick of the way he
was talking. The Wachowski brothers should have made him into a silent
character, one who does everything but talk. The special effects were
spectacular, but I have to say the action scenes, especially when the
actors
were shooting at each other, were really unnecessary. When Keanu Reeves
was firing his
weapons, he was always in slow-motion. It's like watching a Hong Kong
action
film that has only Hollywood actors. This film should only be watched by
people who are EXTREMELY fond of special effects.

******
2 April 1999
5

Everybody else has already said most everything positive I have to say about
this movie.  Great action, kudos for actors doing their own kung-fu..et all.
But. There is a huge downside to this movie that has seemingly escaped
everyone else commenting here. These down sides don't keep The Matrix from
being a decent guy movie, or a decent techno-geek movie, but they do keep it
from being anything resembling a good cinematic movie:Foremost is the cliche'd and campy-as-hell dialog.  Lawrence Fishbourne is a
fine actor, and I cringed for his sake every time he was forced to say inane
things like "He is The One" with conviction every ten minutes.  Much of the
rest of his dialogue is just as vague and pseudo-foreboding (The One, The
Oracle, The Matrix, The Agents...the horror!  Come on, even mediocre sci-fi
should be able to get beyond this).  I was doing my best to believe in a
world to support the stunning action, but with each character spewing Total
Recall-ish lines and bad Dark City outtake ideas, it was damned near
impossible.  Half the lines are embarrassedly half-hearted attempts at lame
self-realization, with metaphors like "the path" and "the door" overused to
create an overriding question of destiny, a question which doesn't hold
together well enough to ever be answered.  By the time The Matrix tries to
answer it, we no longer care what it has to say.Then there's the vague excuse for a plot, the shining moments of which are
buried under some truly awful scenes.  The truth behind The Matrix is vague
and unexplained, and I got the impression that this was not because of some
sly sleight-of-hand by the Wachowski brothers, but rather because they
weren't ever able to create an insightful explanation that held together.
In my book, any plot where the main character's resurrection is explained by
"Well, he can't die, because I love him!" isn't any plot at
all.Lastly, the plot has holes, chief among them the fact that a near-dead
Morpheus does NOT have holes at all after sitting unmoving in the middle of
a room that has just been chain-gunned halfway to hell.  I suppose Neo not
only controls his aim with his world-bending powers, but also uses his power
to make a notoriously inaccurate chaingun perfectly precise?  Also..when
you're standing on top of a building, on the edge of the roof, and a
terrific explosion happens right below you, the force is going to blow you
the hell back, whether or not you're the hero in the movie.Despite all these attempts to make The Matrix just another crappy American
action movie, it does stand out in a few ways.  Everything visual is
amazing, from the fights to the futuristic scenes (the baby-harvesting scene
is enough to make anybody's blood run cold) to the futuristic city set
(watch for the black doorman in the tux by the elevator..a great touch.)
The scene with The Oracle is also a cut above, with the waiting room and The
Oracle herself far more original than the rest of The Matrix.  The
spoon-bending kid is especially interesting, even if she is practising
Buddhism without a license.On the whole..this movie is at most a 5 or a 6 out of 10, chiefly because of
the action scenes.  The dialog is crap, the plot is half-assed, but this
movie does a good job of being all about "guns. Lots of guns."  It's in the
same vein as Total Recall, but better, but don't go expecting to see the
next Blade Runner, or even the next Dark City.


******
2 April 1999
6

This movie is funnier than the recently released EdTV.I don't think it was intentional.The special effects make the show worth seeing.  The plot
isn't bad, but there were all of these melodramatic moments
that had the audience laughing. 

******
2 April 1999
6

What are they smoking when they're raving about The Matrix? I had the
opportunity to see this film and I was appalled that it had NO trace of
originality. Simply put, this is a live-action comic book with the
self-consciously stricken characters, ludicrous fight scenes and tons of
technical mumbo-jumbo repetition. This movie may belong in the serious
neo-noir genre á la Blade Runner and the laughable Dark City, but it
blatantly ripped off the crucial plot from Mamoru Oshii's 1995 visual mind
trip animé Ghost in the Shell based on Masamune Shirow's torturiously
complex manga, and a bit from Katsuhiro Otomo's groundbreaking Akira. It
made me feel I was watching a live-action adaption of Ghost in the Shell
coupled with the elaborate kung-fu and gun fighting sequences copied from
Jackie Chan and John Woo. This is the newly-spawned version of Keanu
Reeves'
inferior predecessor Johnny Mnemonic, only better with mind-bending visual
effects and decent acting in spite of a lame script chock full of tired
by-the-book cliches. The Wachowski brothers may
be complimented for their astounding vision (I've never seen the 3-D
dimension revolving the characters in the "time slice" scenes done so well
with style), but this movie is nothing short of a derivative sci-fi movie
relying on visual eye candy and dark futuristic theme intended for the
primarily target audience of pony-tailed comic book shop owners, computer
geeks and aspiring artists. *1/2 out of four stars


******
1 April 1999
6

The story was boring, even though the plot had a good premise. The action
scenes are nothing to get excited about if you've been jaded by countless
Hong Kong action movies. But it is still better than most Hollywood stuff.
A
lot of people seemed to have liked it in the theater according to their
cheers and such. Go see it if you want, don't expect something incredibly
mind blowing though.

******
23 March 1999
8

This is a ludicrous film. Loud, brash and generally bombastic at every
turn.
Fortunately, it knows this and wears these features on its sleeve. It is
knowing and ironic and has its tongue firmly in its cheek.
The ideas, which will no doubt be hailed as 'startlingly original', are
all
stolen from Philip K. Dick, but at least its stealing from the
best.
It is basically familiar territory, territory mined by Dark City only a
few
years back. The Matrix, however, is an immeasurably superior film, simply
by
virtue of the fact that it does not take itself seriously. At times, the
characters play their ludicrous lines so deadpan, it achieves a bizarre
spooflike quality. Fishburne's performance, in particular, is splendidly
arch as he delivers lines like 'Welcome to the desert of the real' with a
misplaced Shakespearean grandeur.The effects are also ground-breaking and mostly effective. The use of
slo-mo
to eroticize the violence is reminiscent of Woo or even Peckinpah but with
the use of clever CGI, Matrix achieves the feel of ballistic science. The
shootouts do not revel in the familiar 'operatic grandeur' that has been a
staple since Bonnie and Clyde. Rather, they play like FBI reconstructions
of
shootouts. We see the paths that bullets take, the positions of spent
shell
casings. It is shamelessly fetishistic and utterly irrelevant to the
film's
central idea but spectacular and exciting nonetheless.I hate virtually everything. Dark City was a nauseating waste of my time.
Everything released over the last three summers has seemed despicably lazy
film making. Godzilla, Armageddon...these films are offensive cynical
money
pits without a single grain of wit, a single interesting idea to tie the
whole rotten mess together.
Therefore, I fully anticipated hating the Matrix with equal vigor. As it
was, I was pleasantly surprised. While I would make no claims that it was
in
any way a classic, it certainly appeared to have been put together with a
great deal of love and humour and these attributes go a long way. It was
overlong and unnecessarily portentous at times but these are minor
quibbles
when one is being bombarded by such a wealth of outrageous imagery and
ideas. What other film could link Dick, Christ, Alice in Wonderland, Monty
Python, Woo, Jackie Chan,  and still find time to make Keanu Reeves look
good?


******
28 May 2015
2
How can this movie get such a higher score and list in Top 20s?As far as I am concerned, this movie is NEITHER FISH OR FOWL! Titled as
a "Action Movie", but it is actually full of meaningless action part.
As a Chinese critic, those KungFu part is like the Monkey King's
action, full of impossibility. Remove that "Action" title might be a
good choice.What's more, there are dozens of useless parts in this movie. For
example, the love story is so strange, WHAT DOES THAT MEAN BY SAYING
"BECAUSE I LOVE YOU, YOU WILL NOT DIE"??? I just want to ask if it is
necessary? A kiss is a must in movies of 1990s'?In addition to that, is Cypher a necessary part?IS A BAD GUY IN BADLY
NEED IN THIS MOVIE??? I don't think so. The storyline can stretch
through without this man.Last but not least, I would like to know, what is the significance of
the skill of "jump over a building" exist? If it would like to tell us
that a people know about the TRUTH can do something impossible, why
does no one in this movie own the ability of jump straight up to the
building instead of climb up it breathlessly?In a word, this movie constructs an uncomplicated world, or as is to
say, an world that is incomplete. That is why I give it 2 out of 10.

******
26 November 2011
10
I've watched this movie for a first time a year ago ( yes, I know, it's
a crime for anyone who considers himself movie addicted ). I always
thought it was some kind of dull action with smart lines and
very-sexy-looking-in- these-costumes actors. Then, however, I read a
book about out of body experiences, in which the author dedicated a
whole chapter to that movie. He said it's more than just a movie - it's
an idea. An idea of everything a man can do if only give it a shot. If
a man tries to think outside the box. I myself gave it a shot. I've
watched the movie.So, I find the author's truth unarguable, but I would add just one more
thing - not only an idea, that movie is also a prophecy. Just watch it
and decide for yourself what for.

******
15 September 2005
3
After almost two years of feeling almost guilty for not having seen
this movie, and under the advice of many friends of mine, I finally
took a look on The Matrix. What a waste of time! How deceiving! It
seems it is enough with having a noisy soundtrack, a bit of misled
oriental philosophy and some weird looking guys acting (?) to have
people mouthwatering. Oh, yes, the visuals are great. Maybe the only
contribution of this movie is the release of more or less new FX that
could be used in further, more intelligent movies. It is incredible how
so many inconsistencies can be found in the plot without making this
movie lose a bit of its undeserved legend. Here are a few of the
details that made this film unbearable to me:- Machines are obtaining energy from biological sources. And from all
the living creatures populating this world, it is the human race that
is being used, when hundreds of species would have been much more
efficient "batteries", without having to create a Matrix to have them
comfortable in their sleep - The Matrix is a virtual world designed to
keep battery-people happy in their dreams. However, the battle happens
precisely in this imaginary world, which has no sense. You can even
diein this electronic world and your real body dies, too!!! - After
being flushed away when he wakes up, Neo is rescued with an enormous
device that was ready to act under the very nose of the machinesBeyond FX, the movie is absolutely boring. You could always disconnect
your brain and simply watch at the action, and rate this movie more or
less high as an inoffensive entertainment. But then you must face all
that incredible mythology built up around this movie, as if it showed a
new philosophy or some scientific value! The worst thing of it, is that
it is seen by many people as a sci-fi movie. Well, Star Wars deserve
being called "sci-fi" a thousand times more. Call this a fantasy movie,
an action tale... whatever. But please not a sci-fi picture

******
5 June 2005
10
...The Matrix is a movie with the best action scenes ever made. The
score is amazing, the effects incredible and every person in it is
simply COOL. Sure, the actors are rather wooden (thought they look good
in dark sunglasses) but that's not the point. The point is that this
movie, like The Truman Show and other such movies, is supposed to be
thought-provoking, which it does magnificently.What IF this movie is right? What IF we are just batteries placed in
jars and grown in fields to feed the machinery of a gigantic system? No
matter how you try to look at it, there's NO way to really know. Which
is the biggest reason this movie is so great.Now moving on from the message, I believe the casting was very good.
Keanu Reeves (Something's gotta give, Constantine), although perhaps
not the perfect choice for a guy who is shocked to find out about his
shattered reality, works very well in black coat and sunglasses as the
uber-cool Neo. Laurence Fishburne(Apocalypse now, Mystic River) is
perfect as the bare-headed, very experienced and calm person with the
green tie, Morpheus, who teaches Neo about the Matrix. Carrie-Ann
Moss(Chocolat, Red Planet) is good as the love interest (the chemistry
between the two is perhaps a little hard to see, but this doesn't make
the film much worse). Hugo Weaving(Lord of the Rings trilogy) is
absolutely stunning as the totally emotionless (?) computer program
Smith, who dresses up as an "agent" to try and kill Neo.Alright, effects... where to begin? never before has a grossly high
budget been used so effectively. The fight scenes (especially the
climactic one between Neo and Smith) are spectacular and simply out of
this world, not even Crouchin Tiger, Hidden Dragon can beat it, in my
opinion. Everything looks real, if perhaps surreal (Neo waking up in
the field, Neo being swallowed by the liquid mirror) and it's a joy for
the eyes to see. Sound? Also out of this world. F*** George Lucas.This movie was made when the Waschowski brothers had a message, a
talent, and an ambition so great as to create this movie, the 34th best
movie of all time. Don't mind the pointless sequels, just watch this
unforgettable masterpiece if you have not already enjoyed it.10/10

******
18 February 2005
10
this is one of the best science fiction films I have seen by far and is
just a classic in my own mind! the story is set in the way future and
how civilization is overrunning by machines and that humanity are
slaves to these artificial beings so only one man is destined to free
humanity which is "the one" and thats how this man named Morpheus finds
this computer hacker and free's him from slavery and trains him to
unlock his abilities inside the matrix so he can take on the agent
programs that threaten the system and humanity inside it.the film has spectacular visual effects which put other teams to shame
at the time and still do to this day and what really gotten me is to
how destructive the sets really were like in the last few scenes where
neo and trinity walk inside the military complex and literally tear the
place to shreds just blasting away but the scene that i find classic
was when neo was in the helicopter and hovered right next to the room
where Morpheus was held captive in and just unloaded everything the
Gatling gun had at the agents inside it was just phenomenal to the
greatness the film offered! the film was just incredible and is
definitely recommended to anyone who loves sci fi and hasn's yet seen
the film!

******
10 January 2005
3
I found the underlying concepts of this movie totally absurd - such as
the use of humans as an energy source (and what is the energy source
keeping the humans alive?) or the fact that computers would even care
what was going on in the heads of their batteries. At another level the philosophy is also absurd. A key feature is that
the Agents are able to go beyond the limitations of the Matrix and
perform "superhuman" actions. Our hero is someone who - after much
searching by Morpheus - is also able to go beyond the limits. However,
since all we are talking about here is going beyond a set of computer
generated rules why is our hero limited to the same level of skills as
the Agents? Why is he not able to go beyond their rules to a still
higher level?It was just a flimsy excuse for some fancy effects.

******
7 September 2002
3

*** SPOILERS AHEAD ***Actually, nothing could be more of a spoiler than the movie itself. The
concept is brilliant -- the "real world" we think we inhabit is actually a
matrix of induced illusion, but there is a "real" real world outside of
it,
one that the characters manage to reach.Okay, fine.But for this to work, there must be an entirely consistent physics and set
of natural laws in the real world, and either a different but equally
consistent set of rules inside the matrix, or at least a consistently
inconsistent set of rules which change in some predictable way, or which
are
changed intentionally by someone -- heroes or  villains or both -- and we
see them making the changes as part of the unfolding story.What we get instead is constantly changing rules both in the world and in
the matrix, and they change for no good reason except to advance the
hobbling plot, or to showcase a lame special effect. Sometimes the same
rules apply in both, then one changes, then the other changes to what the
first was, then the second changes back, then they switch. Or something
like
that.The first time this happened, I could not believe the director and/or
editor
had let it slip by. It completely spoiled the flow of the movie, worse
than
an actor stepping out of character (lots of that in this movie, too). But
then it happened again and again, with increasing frequency as the climax
approached, and I realized that they just did not care.Maybe it wasn't their fault; maybe the studio garbled it up. Maybe some
day
there will be a director's cut which does make sense. But given the
popularity of the movie as is, that is not likely to happen.Rated 3 out of 10, and that is generous. I would pay not to have to watch
it
again. 

******
2 December 2001
3

When I first saw this movie I was impressed. Perhaps I was swept along
with
the millions of people who were amazed at this slick, smart, sci-fi.
Recently, I watched it again, and realized just how disappointing this
movie
is.The idea is a winner, I'll grant that, and yes, it is beautiful,
everything
looks good. The special effects are to die for, and the action sequences
towards the end rank among the best I've ever seen. But that must've been
all people remember about this movie, because the rest is truly horrible:
corniness to the max.Not only are the lines continually terrible, the script writers seem to be
trying to be so mysterious and philosophical that some of the things
(especially Morpheus) people say come out sounding like they're a complete
space case. They simply dont make sense.The acting is truly dull. Absolutely lifeless, except for a reasonably
impressive performance by Hugo Weaving, which doesn't save the rest of the
cast from looking completely pathetic.Perhaps I am being too harsh, because this movie is worth watching if
you're
prepared to sit through the cringe-worthy script at the beginning to see
the
end. And after all, it's science fiction, and there are, indeed, very few
that manage to weave a clever script into them. So watch it, but at your
own
risk.

******
17 October 2001
3

I truly think that nobody deserves to call this a classic. This movie have
some great actions scenes but have no hot chicks like Charlie's Angels. I
mean look at the situation, in the matrix, an ugly babe in a black suit
doing some karate and in Charlie's angels, Drew Barrymore, blonde, breast
open licking a car or sitting with her legs wide opens. That's a good movie,
not The Matrix.pass this one

******
17 August 2001
3

Matrix die-hards aren't going to like my thoughts on this film.  Beyond the
cool camera stylings of the brothers, this film had less content than a 30
minute episode of Teletubbies.  It's a shame that they have to make a sequel
of this film, but with the other movie fair on the horizon it might actually
present an alternative.  I don't buy the story, mystique and cool music.  In
10 years this will look as uncool as the Last Starfight and Red
Dawn.

******
2 March 2001
3

I used to think that this was a very innovative movie and is one of the
best
I've seen.  After a few more repeat viewings, I changed my mind.  Sure
enough, the special effects are one of the best ever seen in film history
so
far but what at first seems like a brilliant plot became tiresome and
unbelievable after further analysis.Keanu Reeves also shows us how bad acting can affect an otherwise above
average movie.  Keanu is just lifeless and seemed to look clueless as his
character Neo.  He makes Neo look like an idiot that is just plain lucky.
Even a great supporting cast led by Larry Fishburne, Joe Pantoliano and
newcomer Carrie Ann Moss can't redeem Keanu's performance in this
movie.The plot, that of a conspiracy of machines and computers, seems impressive
at first because it makes you say to yourself, "Why didn't I think of
that?".  But when you figure out *(NOW THIS IS A SPOILER!)* that you have
thought of this world created by machines in our mind before, this movie
will be as horrible for you as it was for me at my 4th viewing.  The visual
effects can be irritating to the eyes at times but is without a doubt
beautiful.    

******
5 September 2000
4

Good guys (humans) against bad guys (robots). Story made no sense and it was
old hat. Supposed to be in the future but everything was late 20th Century.
Ending was fairly predictable, only suspense was how they got there. Special
effects very ordinary considering today's standards. One thing that did not
make sense was that transporting could only be done by regular telephones
and not by cell phone. Acting was pedestrian. Reeves has a long way to
go.

******
29 July 2000
3

A cool premise but a plotless execution.  While watching it,
I
had the feeling I was seeing a kung fu movie with modern
eye
candy (lots morphing & slow motion).  If you like kung fu
&
eye candy, it's probably pretty good.  If you want to see
the
premise developed with character, plot, & maybe even a
moral
or two, you'll be disappointed.


******
25 July 2000
3

This film is easily the most overrated flick of 1999. Okay, it looks
stunning and the effects are unbelievably good but the plot and it's
sensitivities are on a par with any indistinguishable installment of Star
Trek(whatever series). This would not be so bad if this film was purported
to be a good action movie (which it is) but it also seems to think it is a
valuable and deep statement about the human condition (it is not) and even
that would not be so bad if a lot of people didn't think it was. The movie
exploits a few fears people share in today's society.  Fear of technology
(the machines have taken over) Fear of annihilation (the world is a
wasteland, physical or emotional) and plain Fear of being Boring (just a cog
in the machine, unimaginative,... et al). Just as  any  average Joe or
Joe-ette can for a few hours imagine him or herself to be an invincible
starship captain or a bigbreasted, ponytailed woman searching for hidden
treasures so the Matrix gives us a picture of how we would like to be, not a
simple man or woman trying to get by but someone who can rock even reality
itself.  Meanwhile all the fans of this film come out of the movie theatre
seemingly feeling enlightened in some kind of way and then go home to play
the videogame and then go to sleep to be on time for their job the next day.
This is simply an escapist film with a waferthin veneer of depth and almost
cynically so. In short I have nothing against the film itself but I do
object to the fact that it claims to be more than an sci-fi action film. If
you think this is a deep film throw away your gamepad and go read a book
(preferably not one of the .... for dummies kind).

******
21 July 2000
3

the matrix is a simple conspiracy/messiah story with stunning special
effects.the acting was wooden and the lack of any real twists or surprises left it
to the effects to keep my attention.

******
7 June 2000
3

I have seen this film quite a few times and every time I want more. It
could
have been better.I found this film to be quite unintelligent. The characters have no good
qualities. The F/X are simply okay. Bullit time as been used countless
times
before in commercials, music videos, etc. The F/X is NOT new, its NOT
groundbreaking, it is simply okay.Now, on to the morals of the film:Why is it that the good guys all wear black and kill the people that they
are attempting to save. Why would they kill them? Why could they not
explain
to the "Prisoners" what is going on with the Matrix? Oh, yes, I forgot
that
this is an unintelligent action film. There is very little substance in
the
film.I dont see how anyone can find Neo and Trinity good guys. They kill people
without thinking twice. The bad guy (Hugo Weaving) has more qualites than
Neo
and Trinity. He wants something, he wants to be free, to live a life
beyond
the Matrix. He has more development than the central characters. Also, the
bad guys do not kill people without thinking twice. They simply are
misunderstood. They are more like police officers, not bad guys. They just
want things to run smoothly. Or perhaps, this is what the film makers
want.
It seems that I am putting more thought into the film than they
did.Now, onto the action and direction:The Wachowski brothers are attempting something that has already been done
in
countless comics and Anime films. It seems as if they are trying to be
like
John Woo. They make the shoot-out in slow-mo, just like Woo. But they dont
have the touch that makes Woo's action look like a ballet (Look at Hard
Boiled or MI2). Its simply a mish-mash of nothing.The look of the film does not inspire, it doesnt make you think. It simply
looks like its dark and dreary everywhere. Now, dark cinematography can be
done very well (Dark City), but for this its just uninspired
mish-mash.The film seems to think that the audience as not intelligence. Laurence
Fishburne sits there and explains to you the entire plot of the film, it
treats us as if we cant think, as if we are part of the matrix and are
mindless beings. This is not true, but for this generation, we might need
to
make an exception.So, in conclusion. I would not really wish this film onto anyone. Its
morally wrong, the effects are nothing outstanding, the acting is okay,
the
plot if not developed. Its just not good. But on the other hand, in the
words of the 12-18 year-old kids, "Its cool." How wrong they
are.3/10

******
5 December 1999
3

The trailer was like the average comedy trailer.   The best things in the
movie are all there.   I loved the effects in the movie, but the story was
beyond silly.   Striving for some sort of ultra reality, the movie takes
itself FAR too seriously.   I enjoyed watching it, but in the end, I
thought
the movie was a clever fraud.

******
3 October 1999
3

Ultimately disappointing sci-fi movie, starring
Keanu Reeves and a bored-silly Lawrence Fishburne. Movie seems to be more
about attitude (wearing way-cool sunglasses and dark trenchcoats) than
about
fighting for the world's future. For a vastly superior film with virtually
the same plot, check out Dark City, starring the marvelous Rufus Sewall and
William Hurt.

******
7 September 1999
3

Here's another one where I'm late in sending in my comments.  I was also
fairly late in viewing.  By the time I got to see the "staggering" flo-mo
effects, they were already commonplace in TV beer adverts.  Now I come to
think about it, so were anthropomorphic creepy-crawlies.  That's the problem
with special effects.  They soon become old hat.  With me the watershed came
about fifty minutes into the film.  I began to get bored, and there was a
long way to go!What's next.  Oh, God!  Episode 1!Ron


******
22 July 1999
3

I went to see this movie based on the ratings and comments at IMDb. I can't
believe this movie got as high a ranking: there's
no originality at all (everything in it has already been done).
Above that there's the (in my opinion) very bad acting. I was so bored I
even fell asleep for 15 minutes. And on top of all this we get the usual
'message to the world', which seems to be obligatory in every American movie
nowadays.
I do admit: some of the special effects were not bad, that's why I rated it
3.
The other theater was showing 'The Mummy': I think I should have gone
there.

******
5 June 1999
3

Fine special effects - but the plot & action of this film
reminds me of a prolonged modernised remake of a Tom & Jerry cartoon. A
lot
of fighting, gruesome destructions and
instant revivals. If I remove the fighting scenes,
practically nothing remains.I like a film that makes my
head spin. This one did not. By the way - how can one BEAT
a computer program into a crash - in a virtual world made and controlled
by
an opposing computer? Well one can hardly call
such a thing a "goof" as anything is possible (or impossible!) in a
virtual
world. 

******
10 May 2015
4
You know, each time I view The Matrix, once again, I find that I'm
liking the thing less and less. It's true. In fact, it's actually
gotten to the point here where I literally find myself about a hair's
breadth away from totally hating this flick, big time. Yep. I figure
that with just a few more viewings and I should, most definitely, be
there, sure enough.It's so true that The Matrix' story is so riddled full of holes, and
rife with inconsistencies, that it makes a piece of Swiss Cheese look
like a solid brick of Cheddar.It doesn't help matters much (when I'm trying to enjoy this film) that
I detest Keanu Reeves as much as I do. I really think that he makes a
damn-lousy Neo. I mean - Let's face it - Reeves just isn't a very
convincing bright-boy. And he makes a truly terrible lover for Trinity,
too.What more can I say?

******
24 September 2014
10
If you look at Godfather, most of the viewers will tell you that part
II is even better than the first one. In the case of the Matrix , the
sequels are not that good. Why is that? The Matrix movie blew the
viewers away because of one simple idea. A groundbreaking innovative
yet very simple idea. What if all what we are living is a lie? What if
all what we know about physics and all our life experiences are just an
illusion? What if some higher intelligence is using us ? What If all
what surrounds us is only a fiction made and maintained by a higher
beings we only serve without knowing? What if all our prophets and
deity were people who could see that reality and who did give us some
indications of the "truth". Now how can you top an idea like that. It
is over. That's it. The movie is all if not only about this idea. It is
surely not about the performance of Keanu. The storyline is no longer
important. Once you think about it , it blows your mind and keeps you
interested to see how this idea is being presented to you in the movie.

******
12 September 2014
10
Again this is another film that was made at the same time "Star Wars
Episode 1" (1999) was around, and the CGI looks definitively better.
"The Matrix" was a welcoming edition to the Sci-Fi genre, Inspired by
the Wachowski siblings love of cyberpunk, Japanese martial arts and
Lewis Carroll. It has an extremely interesting synopsis about reality,
considering the dawn of the information age.Reality (Seen by most humans) is actually a simulation defined as "The
Matrix", created by sentient machines to wipe out the human population
by farming and using their bodies as an energy source. A computer
programmer "Neo" (Keanu Reeves) learns this truth and is drawn into a
rebellion against the machines, involving other people who have been
freed from this "dream world". All are being chased by "Agents" led by
the more ruthless "Agent Smith" (Hugo Weaving), who wants to stop them
from leaving the mainframe. Keanu Reeves is as wonderfully bland as ever, but turns in a decent
performance. Carrie-Anne Moss's character "Trinity" became more likable
over sequels, and of course Laurence Fishburne as "Morpheus" definitely
remained the most respectable character throughout the franchise.
Either way you look at it the show stealer's is a balance between
Laurence Fishburne & Hugo Weaving, their performances are either way
over the top or just spot on.Other than that, it's a spectacle in set pieces, choreography and
directing. So many scenes are almost dream like in their fabricated
quality, along with the "reality" sequences that look really dirty and
trashed. "Bullet Time" became much more prominently used after the
movie, and everyone would start dressing like the characters as
parodies were spawned and the comic book reader in me felt that it was
heavily similar to Grant Morrison's "The Invisibles" (1994-2000).Final Verdict: If you want A+ action and CGI, mixed with superb Martial
Arts in a western landscape. Then I cannot recommend "The Matrix"
enough. 10/10.

******
8 September 2014
10
This is the film that got me into films! It kick started my imagination
when I was a young teenager and I still love to watch it 15 years
later.The visuals were a first for their time, and still hold up today.
People watching it for the first time may think that it's similar to a
lot of action films of the last decade but truthfully must of them were
trying to copy The Matrix!"Bullet time" as it's called had been done before but it was this film
that truly mastered it and brought it to the mainstream.The sequels may have made the franchise a little too convoluted but the
original is still a stylish, enjoyable, intelligent, entertaining and
very cool movie.If you haven't seen this movie you really need too.

******
1 September 2014
9
The Matrix is a science fiction action thriller movie. It depicts a
future in which humans are being controlled and their world is being
simulated by large network of machines and highly intelligent programs.
And everything that any human senses (touch, feel, see) is just a
dream. The human body's heat and electrical activities are being used
as energy source by the machines.Meanwhile there is a group of human beings who are free and are
fighting for freedom. Their leader Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne)
believes that Neo (Keanu Reeves) is "the one" and that one day he will
free them all. In dream world Neo is hacker, he is approached by
Morpheus to join them.Initially he hesitates but at the end Neo joins
them. Initially Neo doesn't believes that he is "the one" but at the
end he realizes about his unbounded power and fights against the
machine's protector programs and kills one of them, which was thought
to be impossible till then.The movie revolves around Neo , Morpheus , Trinity(Carrie-Anne Moss)
and agent Smith(Hugo Weaving). Neo and Trinity like each other but
Trinity reveals it only at the end. Overall its an action packed movie.
Initially it is really hard to understand what's going on in the movie.
As movie begins by redefining the nature of reality but when one starts
to understand that what is going on it becomes very interesting. Since
its an imaginary world the action scenes are quite amusing and
exciting. The Matrix did not bore me at all except for the starting half hour.
But later the plot turned out to be very interesting. At the end I was
so much interested that I watched its part 2 and part 3 on same day.
For part 1 I had hoped that something more would have happened at the
end of it. But anyway, overall it was a nice movie. A recommended movie
to watch for those who love action , science fiction or thriller
movies.

******
19 September 2008
3
The Matrix isn't the mind trip that everyone says it is. The story is
pretty standard, even a tad cliché. It pretty much takes Alice In
Wonderland and makes it slightly more mature, and that is really it.
Our world isn't real, but the matrix is real. Okay, so how is that
original? The idea has been toyed around with in every single fantasy
story since about the time The Chronicles of Narnia was written. I
simply do not understand why so many people think that is so
originalit's not even close. In essence, it was pretty predictable to
me.But my major problem was it was dull. Most of the movie was nothing but
your standard fantasy lingo that I've heard so many times I was about
to fast forward through it all. "Our world is real, not yours." Then,
"But, wait, how can that be?" And so on. I can tell you exactly what
was going on in this movie from the first trailer, much less halfway
through.Action is minimal. Violence is non-existent. I don't understand why
this was rated R, at all, unless the produces paid the MPAA to give it
an R-rating so it looked more "hardcore" than it really is. The few
action scenes that did take place were okay, but nothing to phone home
about, even when the movie was released.Acting is cheesy. Enough said. A lot of this movie I couldn't even take
seriously because the acting was so cheesy. Whoever was in charge of
casting for this film really had no idea how to pick solid actors to
fill the roles.Overall, I guess it was okay. Pretty average and predictable, just like
all the Wachowski brother's movies. It was fun, and better than sitting
at home with nothing to do, but I can't say much more than that.3/10

******
15 September 2006
3
This movie is one of the most stupidest of all time, the story doesn't
exist. The only limited interest I get in it are the bullet time and
the sfx in general. Even the fightings are mediocre, If you throw sfx
you can see that the choreography is average and that the actors are
really awful in it, but making them jump 50 feet high or break wall
tends to hide their poor limitations, I saw a lot of kung fu movies and
i can say that Keanu reeves with his manicured hands doesn't fit at
all. This movie is a mix of Dragon Ball Z for the fighting, Superman
for the flying, and let's not forget Dark City for the atmosphere and
for a lot of plot by plot scene.I gave it 2/10.

******
23 June 2006
3
I know many people will not agree with this, but read this. Matrix is a
hugely overrated movie and is so slow. The whole movie is about Neo
trying to discover what the Matrix is. It can be explained in 5-10
minutes, but it is explained in almost 2 hours. The only good thing
about this movie is 3 or 4 scenes of amazing graphics. If you like the
film only because of these scenes, then you might as well just download
the trailer. I saw the trailer and went to see the film, the good bits
were in the trailer only. The movie is ever so slow, when does it end
is what i was thinking. Keauna Reeves best film is and will always be
Speed. Decent kung fu, but i prefer kung fu hustle.

******
10 January 2004
3

So much hype.so little excitement for the audience. This film is pure
product and it'a a shame.I saw it the other night at an outdoor cinema and
i
know it's a few years since all the marketing hype, but it really was
boring. All that money on special effects and yet it really is not
exciting.

******
6 November 2001
3

You cannot help but be impressed with the tremendous amount
of
work that went into the making of this movie, but the result
is
much flash and dazzle with very little content.  I would
have
hoped for more.The plot is so confused and confusing that I gave up trying
to make any sense out of it after about 20 minutes.  The
plot
line ultimately reverts to a classic good-guys vs. bad-guys
shoot-em-up.  The movie is kind of a "Karate Kid" on steroids,
except that the characters in "The Karate Kid" are much
more
involving.The subtheme concerning the nature of reality adds no new
insight in trying to answer this eternal question.  Any
child
who stops to think about the artificial reality created
strictly
by the mind in the dream state has gotten as far as this
movie
makes you go.  "The Forbidden Planet" examines this question
in
a much more interesting and thoughtful way.The subtheme concerning finding "The Chosen One" seemed to
be
thrown in as an attempt at trying to give the hopelessly
misguided script some heft.  Some "meaning."  If you want
to
see a beautiful and sensitive treatment of this, see Scorsesse's
"Kundun."Except for Fishburn, the acting was uniformly wooden. 
Keanu
Reeves seems to have the emotional range of a potato.  I
wound
up not caring for any of the people in this movie - whether
they lived or died made no difference to me. I found the
love
interest unbelievable.The intro to the DVD made me think that I was going to
like
the music at least.  But I cannot even remember this movie
as
having a soundtrack, it was so unmemorable.The agents for the Matrix were stereotypical, in a movie that
seemed
to want to break stereotypical images - like the supreme
Mother
being an aging and unattractive lower middle class woman.  If
you
are really thinking about how to be innovative in portraying
evil, think of the devil in "The Last Temptation of Christ."I think about this movie in comparison to "2001" in trying
to
figure why I liked "2001," but disliked this movie so much.
Both movies have memorable images, but "2001" creates a
sense
of beauty and mystery, whereas "The Matrix" creates a sense
of
anxiety and dread.Ultimately I found "The Matrix" to be drab, depressing and
cold.
I found its glorification of violence repellent.

******
10 September 2001
3

I hadn't really expected a lot, but I was amazed at just how dull this film
was.  The effects are, quite rightly, considered great and are obviously
influential in many ways.  But other than a couple of action sequences at
the beginning and end, you have nothing but dull lectures.  Lawrence
Fishburne is too good an actor to play a second-rate Yoda like this and the
"philosophy" was the type of thing you outgrow in 10th grade ("How do we
REALLY know reality?") presented in an ultraserious tone that makes the
claptrap seem important.  This type of thing has been done before and
better, and the various plot holes and inconsistancies were just a sign of
sloppy storytelling.  The villains were quite probably the least interesting
in the history of film, with tiresome mannerisms that made you want to go
out and slap the director.  And the cliches!  Villains in suits and black
sunglasses!  A traitor in the heros' midst!   Man redeemed due to love a
woman!  Can anyone really call these original?The effects cannot be faulted, and there were a couple of good action
sequences, but the film was poorly written and just plain dull.  More action
would have been better, or anything to spare the audience the puerile
philosophizing.Certainly one of the most overrated films of the decade.

******
4 September 2001
7

Am I really living in this altered universe? Am I merely a cloned out slave
to some wild, way out computer gone berserk? Does life really even exist,
and, if so, does it even matter? Or is Matrix just another high-tech film
shot with lots of expensive cameras? Watch and see....but, beware, for you
will never be the same.

******
12 September 2000
3

Well, this is the lowest rating I've ever given a film (3). Boring beyond
belief. It's not like the idea is new; in fact, I would think the producer
of this film would have to pay royalties to the guy who wrote "The
Thirteenth Floor", I think it was, with Craig Bierko. That movie was
entertaining and suspenseful. This is just the worst. You like science
fiction? see "Last Night." You want another film about a manufactured
universe? How about "The Truman Show?" This was a total waste of time, and
I'm afraid its rating as #31 on the all-time honors list, at this writing,
is just a testament to the fact that too few people my age can really use
the internet. Keanau Reeves better stop doing this stuff, 'cause, like
McCauley Culkin, he's gonna outgrow them.

******
22 July 2000
3

The Matrix has to be the most over commericalised film... it is  complete
nonsense, so shallow even the supposed philosophy is just laughable "hes
the one, or is he?" the kung fu scenes are just pathetic, Keanu Reeves its
compleltey useless he should stick to films such as bill and teds
excellent
adventure. I personally dont see why such great bands such as deftones and
marilyn manson were willing to make a soundtrack to this complete
disaster-its more of a horror film and should immediately be erased from
existence. poor poor quality. 

******
16 April 2000
4

Here's one film the hype of which I simply don't get. The special effects
aren't that good, and the martial arts are junior grade HK stuff. Keanu is
terrible as usual and Carrie-Anne Moss isn't much better. The premise itself
has some promise, but we spend too much time in The Matrix, where the rules
seem to apply only when the Wachowski Brothers want them too. Example: why
do our heroes have to be transported through a particular phone wire? Why
can't they use their ubiquitous cell phones? Could it be to set up some
chase scenes? Why, in fact, does The Matrix include all these old fashioned
wired phones, when the bad guys know well and good that the good guys use
them as a means of transportation? Judging from the Reality that Fishburne and company live in, I'll take The
Matrix any day over the metaphysical bollocks that apparently passes for
real life. 


******
29 November 1999
3

An interesting premise which fails to live up to its promise. The apparent
super-human abilities of the film's protagonists are a result of human
will-power overcoming the machine.Unfortunately, the script is predictable, the design not as stylish as the
ads would have us believe, and the visual effects inappropriate. It relies
too much on special effects. The film gives the impression that it is simply
a vehicle for someone to show off a new technique. The resulting scenes are
pretty, but fail to maintain the suspension of disbelief so essential to the
successful use of visual effects.It tries, but fails miserably, to be thought provoking. Instead, it is
merely irritating. A disappointing film which would have been better aimed
at an older audience.

******
10 September 1999
3

"Ignorance is bliss" as they say in the film. You go in without any
knowledge of the Science-Fiction literature and you enjoy the film, you go
in the theatre with some SF knowledge, the amount of rip-off and open
plagiarism annoys you like hell. The Matrix is as if the screenwriter
decided to use parts of his fave SF stories and made up a story to bind them
all: The Second Foundation Trilogy,  all that's written by William Gibson,
Ender's Game by O.S. Card, Star Trek's holodeck concept, references to
Terminator films, and to Cliff Simak's short stories, and more and more show
up in the film. And with awe and horror I saw Obi-Wan and young Luke in the
Morpheus - Neo dialogue somewhere in the first 30 minutes of the film; even
the music was a la Star Wars at that moment. I guess they thought "most
people stop reading SF after they are 20 years old, so they either won't
bother or won't remember" which is a crying shame. However, giving the devil
its due, the special effects are interesting, the pace is high and the
music/sound effects are deafening, therefore The Matrix becomes an
interesting spectacle, but it's still hollow, borrowed, and plundered from
others' decent works. Pity. I wish it were "the" SF film people were talking
about. Did you notice, I didn't write even a single word about Keanu Reeves'
expressionless, lifeless, face.


******
12 June 1999
3

Damn, I just hate the "The Matrix"! The only good visual effects are
already
shown in the trailer. The remaining 2 hours really aren't worth seeing.
Boring, pseudo-intellectual dialogues, the worst computer effects since
"Blade" and an ending, which only could get a laughter out of
me!

******
10 May 1999
3

The Matrix started with a good idea for a subject about reality. Then
added
a babe, a shoot-em up, and some Kung Fu and called it a movie. If you can
dodge a bullet, why do you need Kung Fu. His mission is to save the world?
Most the planet is burned beyond recognition, if he brings people back to
reality, where are they going to live. Not a tight story! This is an easy
one to miss!

******
5 May 1999
3

The previews and commercials for this film had me expecting something
great.
I was instead suprised to see something that reminded me more of "Johnny
Mnemonic," not in terms of plot, but in terms of the pace (sort of slow),
and the "Keanu Reeves action hero of the future" motif.  Overall, I
thought
that the plot was rather simple, and despite that, Laurence Fishburne's
character rehashed it for the audience numerous times.  I thought the
special effects were great, but special effects alone don't make a movie
great.  The action was nice, but there could have been more of it.


******
4 May 1999
3

While I must admit that the effects were special and the Kung-Fu scenes
well
choreographed the movie itself was poor in keeping my attention. I fell
asleep twice in this over-hyped movie that would have been better read in
comic book format. 

******
19 April 1999
3

Only in Hollywood could a stiff like Keanu Reeves get top billing over a
fine, classically trained actor like Laurence Fishburne.  And only in
Hollywood could a typical, derivative, way-too-long shoot-em-up action movie
get such good reviews.Ladies and gentlemen, I hate to burst your bubble, but there were maybe ten
minutes worth of eye-popping special effects.  The rest?  Ponderous
clap-trap about "The Martix" and "The One."  Most of the "action?"  Typical
gun fights where for some reason twenty "bad guys" with automatic weapons
(on their home turf) cannot shoot two intruders.  It was boring and
unbelievable the last 2,500 times it was done, and it is boring and
unbelievable now.I gag on my mouse.One thumb down.


******
17 April 1999
3

Ok, so it's the number one movie right now, but WHY??????
Why did I think this movie was cheap and worthless, and deserving of my
mediocre vote? (a 3, btw)1. The acting was atrocious!  Keanu, YOU'RE NOT IN BILL AND TED'S EXCELLENT
ADVENTURE ANYMORE!  SNAP OUT OF IT!  Fishburne was a robot, and carrie-anne
moss was terrible!
2. The storyline was not very impressive...it was just a little from
Invasion of the Body Snatchers, a little from Planet of the Apes, and a
little from every cheap B sci-fi flick ever made!
3. Where were the impressive special effects the trailers were promising?
What, the slo-mo bullets?  Nothing that hasn't been done a million times by
John Woo!
4. That karate sequence between Reeves and Fishburne - how cheesy was that?My advice is, stop being a bunch of sheep, and don't go watch this movie!
It really does stink!  You're better off going out to rent a few Brat Pack
movies instead! 

******
13 April 1999
3

I hated this movie.  Half the story line was stolen from a Star Trek episode
called "The Thaw" and the other half was taken from the movie "Dark City."
The only orignal touch was the Kung-Fu fighting, which isn't original at
all.  I gave this movie a 3, don't see it, instead watch Star Trek, Dark
City and the Terminator and give credit to the people who came up with these
ideas in the first place. 

******
11 April 1999
3

Hackneyed, muddy plot. Fishburne is reduced to spouting Zen platitudes and
comments about the Net as poorly-reasoned as Al Gore's recent gaffes. The
film is basically an excuse for the special effects, and the best that can
be said for Keanu Reeves is that he wasn't any worse than the character he
played in "Johnny Mnemonic" (or is that "Moronic"?)

******
5 April 1999
3

The Matrix lives up to its billing as a computer program laden with special
effects.  What?  This is a movie?  Could have fooled me.  I thought I had
seen this movie before when it was called Johnny Mneumonic or was it
Spaceballs.  This was a typical movie with characters and plot straight out
of Mission Impossible.  Sure the stunts and effects were cool, but Keanu
Reeves's acting overshadowed it.  It was if Ted Logan (from Bill and Ted's
Excellent Adventure) was the main character.  It was entertaining, but not
for the $7 or so that admission costs.  This is a decent movie to see on tv
or even for a free rental, but I wouldn't spend my money on
it. 

******
5 April 1999
3

I saw this movie recently and would not recommend it.  The plot is confusing
and hard to follow.  I found the movie to be way too long and way too
boring.  This movie probably appeals most to science fiction buffs.  Both my
twenty year old son and I were not impressed--we couldn't wait for the movie
to end. 

******
25 June 2011
2
I honestly do not understand why this "film" is so adored and praised
like it's the next "Citizen Kane" (I personally hated "Citizen Kane"
but would watch it over this!) Yes it does have some fabulous action
sequences but they come thinly in once in a blue moon with no plot to
actively engage in.That's a good place to start actually. The plot. WHAT PLOT?! I think i
must've gone down the rabbit hole whilst watching this because
absolutely nothing made sense. Talk about style over substance! Right
from the opening I didn't have a clue what was going on. So a man gets
sucked down some gooey alien bladder and is told he's the next Jesus or
something like that and that everything in the world we know is
completely fake and is a computer programme called "The Matrix" and
this "Neo" character is now in the real world that looks more like a
rip-off of a "Terminator" set! Can we get real here please? Then there
are some bad guys who i don't really get why are bad, but that they
just go around wearing big wavy coats and stupid sunglasses indoors. Is
this meant to be cool? Stick me in jeans and a T-Shirt any day of the
week.So we've covered the complete mess of a plot, I literally didn't know
where anything was going next! Where are now? Who's he? Why is that
happening? Are popular phrases I would use on the "Audio Commentary"
for this load of... What shall I pan next? I don't have to think too
hard because there are so many faults it's hard to pick. Kenau Reeves
was rubbish as the main character and was far too moody to be likable.
Then we've got some black man who acts like a prat 24/7 making "Neo" do
stupid and pointless things like fight kung-fu and prat about in white
rooms to add to some more confusion.The action and special effects are really good but they need a plot to
engage in to find them entertaining. I didn't know why they were
fighting each other or why a certain thing was happening at all!
Besides, the action sequences were very few and underwhelming to say
the least.Visually stunning? Not really, the cinematography on Coronation Street
is more stunning and as were the special effects for the crazy tram
crash. So maybe I'm being a bit harsh there but it's merely to outline
the disgust I felt from this film, the ending left me thinking how
anyone could like this "Terminator" wannabee.It's unengaging, virtually unwatchable and with a plot more tangled
than Hayley Croppers styled wig. Don't you tell how great "The Matrix"
is.

******
14 April 2007
3
I may spend more time writing this comment than any of the 26 others I
have completed for IMDb. For one thing, I really need to examine why I
have such a totally negative view of this movie, which many others
adore so. I do think they must either be 12-year-olds, or older folk
with their mental development permanently stunted, stuck forever at the
12-year-old level. Sorry, but that's really the way I feel about anyone
who raves about "The Matrix". It is sad that I'll spend (waste) my time
in this way.Certainly, there are worse movies in the same genre. One example is
"Equilibrium," which has achieved the dubious distinction being one of
only two films, the other being "Bloody Sunday," with my "2 out of 10"
rating. Only "Narc" got a lower rating (obviously, a "1") in my list of
IMDb voted-on films. I think that pegs The Matrix at a "3", although
that may indeed be too generous.I think Keanu Reeves is, generally, a good actor, although many, if not
most, of the films in which he has appeared do scant justice to what
acting ability he possesses. "Speed" comes to mind; a very bad movie.
And Reeves definitely comes off as badly in The Matrix as he did in
Speed. On the other hand, the relatively unknown film "Johnny
Mnemonic," although it obviously falls far short of fulfilling the wild
vision of William Gibson's fine short story, gets at least my mild
applause; Reeves was as good as he gets in that film, I think. And,
guess what? For his Johnny Mnemonic effort, Reeves was nominated for
the Razzie Award, as worst actor of the year!I don't know what you call the genre, if only one exists, for The
Matrix and Equilibrium. Science Fiction? Cyber-Noir? Impossible
Future-Fantasy Kung-Fu? "Dark City," I think, also belongs to this
indeterminate genre, but Dark City resides at the best end of its
spectrum, as opposed to the other two, which are so abysmally bad they
inspire nausea in me. The stunningly beautiful images of Dark City
stand in huge contrast to the formulaic shallowness of The Matrix.
Well, there can be no comparison, really. Dark City is a great film;
The Matrix just isn't. I will try to explain why I have these
starkly-opposed opinions...I believe there ought to be at least three criteria for rating any
film: Screenplay, Acting, and Production. Of the three, Acting must be
at least a bit more important than the other two. Good acting can go
far towards rescuing marginal writing or poor production. And bad
acting can absolutely ruin an otherwise excellent story and image.The Matrix: The acting is unconvincing. Screenplay: Shallow, displaying
no redeeming or memorable story. Production: Dominated by gratuitous
special effects, which have little relation to furthering what story
there is.I just decided to drop this project. The Matrix deserves no more of my
time. 3 out of 10. Finis.

******
11 February 2002
3

Once in a while a film comes along that everyone has to like, whether its
any good or not doesn't matter. The hype and the fact that it has `cool'
elements in it,  like killing at the drop of a hat, dark glasses and long
leather coats and of course special effects, make up for that. Examples
include Blade Runner, which was truly awful, Heat (zzzzzzzzzzzz),  Pulp
Fiction, which was good, but not unbelievably wonderful as everyone rants on
about and Men in Black which was utter c**p of the highest order (see my
review). The Matrix disappointed me unbelievably. I love the Wachowski's previous
film `BOUND' and looked forward to this film on the strength of that, NOT
the hype.  I watched it in the summer of its release,  on the same day as
`Ten Things I hate about you' and `Cruel Intentions' and I must say that I
enjoyed those films far more. I had heard `THE MATRIX' was the best film
ever made, a cinematic masterpiece, a wonderful story etc although, I always
go into every film with an open mind and make my own mind up (even Burn
Hollywood Burn  which yes, was awful anyway!!). The Matrix bored me silly
for the first hour or so, it didn't make the slightest bit of sense and
reminded me of the pain of sitting through `Bladerunner' years before. What
I will say is that it picked up in the second half, mainly due special
effects  which I always say, should be only an element of a film, NOT the
be all and end all. I do honestly believe that many (not all) people only
like this film because its fashionable to do so, although will never admit
it. If you want good sci fi action thriller, that was made at a shaving of
the cost, watch the superior `PITCH BLACK'. Please be individual and make up
your own mind and not follow the crowd.


******
8 April 2000
7

A computer cowboy rides into a new realm of reality. Not to learn right from
wrong; reality from the surreal. What is it like going too far into the
looking glass? This movie sets new standards for science fiction and making
movies period. Don't worry about trying to understand what you see. Just
buckle up and endure. The special effects and sound are beyond compare.Keanu Reeves is really good. Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss and Joe
Pantoliano are equally important to watch. A bucket of popcorn, a Payday and
two Pepsi Colas....and nerves of steel. What a flick!!!

******
6 October 1999
3

A terrible film.  Completely unoriginal.  And what's this fascination with
just one special effect which isn't much more exciting than slow motion.  I
like action, and I like fancy effects, such movies don't require plot,
dialogue, nor acting.  Unfortunately lacks in every single area.  Although
I
know that hype carries through lots of films, I can't believe the hype
blinded so many people into regarding this film as anything but a cheap and
nasty B-rated imitation of so many great, visually stimulating, and thought
provoking films.  As with previous comments, I recommend Dark City for the
original movie plot.  And just about any Bruce Lee film for the Kung Fu.
In
hindsight though, the popularity of this movie is making me think that the
theme in the Matrix could indeed be the truth, except that in reality the
"Matrix" is the Hollywood Movie Producers...

******
6 April 1999
3

This movie would be good if the director kept the special effects and then
fired all the actors and rewrote the script.  The idea of The Matrix is
amazing.  When I realized what the Matrix was, I was interested.
Unfortunately, the script didn't allow me to care enough about the rest of
the narrative.  If the characters were less cartoon-like and I was made to
feel any sympathy towards them, maybe the film would work.  Go see The
Matrix for the special effects but don't pay attention to the narrative,
or
you will be disappointed. (3 out of 10)

******
15 June 2001
3

The directors of "The Matrix" mistake style for dark, depressing sets and
gloomy-looking people uttering mumbo-jumbo about "The One". The film has
an
imaginative and wonderfully paranoid premise: What if the world we live in
is not what we think it is, but an illusion created by malevolent beings.
Unfortunately, we are subjected to stupid training segments for Reeves by
the resistance (an ill-concieved concept all in its own), complete with an
inane kickboxing sequence, in which the combatants fly through the air,
impressing the half-wits in the audience, while we with IQ's over 50 just
sit and yawn. The special  effects are more laughable than spectacular.
Seeing a bullet fly by some guy in slow motion is certainly not amazing.
The
movie could have been so much better if it had had a better script, and
omitted every scene "outside reality" I guess. All in all, this is science
fiction for cavemen. 

******
24 February 2001
3

If you ask anyone what they thought about the Matrix, chances are most will
say they loved it. Some may even say it's the best movie ever. I, on the
other hand, was disappointed with this film. Sure the visuals were cool, and
it had a great action sequence at the end, but I didn't buy it, here's
why:1.) I find it hard to root for our heroes. To be honest, I'd rather stay in
the matrix, enjoying my life, and not knowing that it is all a fantasy. Why
you ask? Let's say you just got married, won the lottery, or just plain
having a great time. Then you're pulled out of the world you know only to
find a post apocalyptic world ruled by machines. Where would you rather be?
With your loved ones, or running from computers.2.) A better lead could have been used. I don't like Keanu reeves movies. I
just don't think he's much of an actor in any movie he's in. This one is no
exception.3.) It falls into routine sometimes. Okay, there's a traitor among our
heroes and he starts killing some off one by one. When he has our remaining
heroes cornored, we find that one of the one's he's killed didn't die.
Therefore he kills our traitor. That scene is as played out as the "villian
falling off a building to his death" scene. The Matrix could have been a lot better, maybe the sequels will work on
this. My grade is 5.

******
11 April 1999
3

"Boring" and "who cares" about sums up my feelings of this
movie.
Boring-I slept through some of it and I was awakened by the buzz of
audience
chatter through out the movie.  Everyone talks about it being
derivative-Really- let me count the ways- Terminator II which I liked a
lot-
These guys must have seen Disney movies a hundred times each i.e. Alice,
Cinderella, sleeping beauty, plus a lot of Roadrunner cartoons- and a lot
of
people are mentioning a Gap commercial! give me a break-please-
Bombarding
the senses does not make a great movie.Who cares-There was no characters I cared about or even knew anything
about-
no plot-no story-no nothing- an extremely clever cartoon-only- that's all
folks. 

******
9 April 2009
10
I base this on the Ultimate 10-Disc Set. An entire decade after this
came out, it still holds up incredibly well. It simply has so much to
offer... all that food for thought, different beliefs, tons of themes
that are explored and such immense room for interpretation, with very
little in this being certain or definite. The plot is excellent,
develops well, and combines various interesting ideas(and no, they
weren't original, they weren't meant to be... this puts a lot of
fascinating concepts together, and presents them all for the mainstream
audience). Granted, it spawned a ton of suddenly enlightened pocket
philosophers with little doubt as to their own prowess, but with
anything this influential, there are going to be some negative results.
The pacing is spot-on, not a moment of this is too long or overly
short. The action is astounding, exciting, fun, entertaining and
awesome, and they manage to do amazing and memorable sequences. No,
perhaps it does not dodge all of the clichés. The slow-motion(and bits
clearly inspired by John Woo) and other tools appeared before this,
yes, the point isn't that they were new... it's the way this uses them,
and creates a unique style. Mixing Noir, Animé and countless allusions,
and doing so with expert-like skill is an impressive feat. The
Bullet-Time was invented for this, and it is fantastic. The martial
arts, the choreography, the moves, magnificent. The effects are
stunning and seamless, to this day. The cinematography and editing are
perfect, and enormously well-planned. The mood and atmosphere is
masterfully achieved. The acting is quite good, Reeves fits, Moss and
Fishburne are marvelous, and Weaving is utterly impeccable. The dialog
is almost completely invariably well-written, and well-delivered. There
is no nudity or sexuality, at most hints thereof. There is language,
moderately harsh, albeit not too bad in frequency. The DVD holds a text
introduction(to the following) by the Wachowski's, that makes for a
great read, as well as two commentary tracks, one of philosophers who
enjoyed the film, Dr. Cornel West & Ken Wilder, and one of critics who
did not care for it, Todd McCarthy, John Powers & David Thompson. These
are worth listening to. I recommend this to any fan of science fiction,
and anyone who wishes to be encouraged to think by what they watch.
10/10

******
6 January 2004
3

Why does everyone love these movies?  They are junk.  The story is none
existent and full of rhetorical nonsense that's randomly placed and stolen
from philosophers, the acting is pathetic, and I still believe the only
reason people like this movie is because they are hypnotized by its
"dazzling" special effects.  People consider these ground-breaking special
effects...no.  Star Wars was ground-breaking, The Matrix is just people
fighting for no reason other than to show off their "great" CGI.  I sure
hope they don't decide to make a 4th.
3/10 stars.

******
13 August 2008
10
Like "Blade Runner", the "Matrix" trilogy has at least two different
levels of story. Both are evident, but we, at first, only see the first
and less important, which is the Matrix itself and the
man-against-machine war. The second level, which is the central plot of
the whole thing, is so obvious that it becomes invisible.If you liked this movie more than the sequel, "Matrix: Reloaded", then
you, like almost everyone else, didn't understand it. If you are
feeling bad about that, don't worry, it took me almost eight years to
finally understand it, too! Many people liked this first part, the rest
hated it, and both didn't understand it. Interestingly enough, the ones
that hated it were closer to understanding it than those that liked it.
People that didn't like the "Matrix" trilogy always talk about the
"shallow story" and the "cheap philosophy". As much as they are right
about the cheap philosophy, they are complete and absolutely wrong
about the shallow story. The "pseudo-philosophic junk" is, actually,
junk, but a very important part of the story, and that is so clear in
this first part of the trilogy that no one actually realized it. It
happens because, taken alone, "The Matrix" is just a fantasy movie,
placed some time in the future.The key to realize the greatness of the "Matrix" trilogy is accepting
that it is a science fiction, not a fantasy movie. With that in mind,
you can find the real villain of the trilogy, then everything will make
sense, including the things that make no sense at all in a science
fiction movie, like Neo's skills, both inside and outside the Matrix.
The really interesting thing is that the villain openly shows its
evilness in "Reloaded", it even explains its reason to do the things it
does, but we promptly forgive or forget it! And pay a lot of attention
to the dialogs at the very ending, in "Matrix: Revolutions", don't be
deceived or misled by the background, because they present the final
results of the main struggle of the trilogy and you will realize who is
the winner.So, follow the white rabbit and find out who is the real villain in the
"Matrix" trilogy. After that, you will see that almost all speeches in
it have two completely different meanings, one that supports a weak
futuristic cloak-and-dagger flick, with lots of "cool", but unimportant
Greek-and-whatever references, and another that leads to a much darker
reality, which will make you love the whole trilogy, or more properly,
the trilogy as a whole, not only this first installment.

******
20 September 2003
3

Even after seeing this film months after it's original release when I missed
it, I still couldn't see what all the fuss was about. The fx are pioneering
and there are some good technical things in the film, but it doesn't make a
good movie.Keanu Reeves is still one of the blandest (albeit richest) actors in the
world and I was not convinced by his performance in this one. Lawrence
Fishburne is monotonous in the film and not as good as he was in films like
JUST CAUSE and TINA.Perhaps the downbeat style of the film and idea behind it (we are living in
an alternate reality whilst being awake in sleep mode, or something like
that!!) doesn't do anything for me and those squid like mechanical aliens
are just plain weird on screen.A disappointment.

******
20 April 2002
3

I simply did not enjoy this film. The plot was so ridiculous that I left
the
theater with a bad taste. The action sequences well done but this movie was
too long and unbelievable and I just got tired. The acting is horrible. I
can't believe this thing is on top 250.

******
10 March 1999
10

(As an avid film critic and reviewer, I got the chance to see this film
among other critics and lucky people in late Feburary.).Andy and Larry Wachowski have done it again. With their chilling, dark film
"Bound", which they directed and written, I knew I was going to expect
another fantastic presentation. "The Matrix" completely blew me
away.I got the announcement about this film over three years ago, and I was
curious to see what "The Matrix" really was, but information was far too
limited, leaving me only the names of the people behind the magic. However,
it creeped up through the neighborhood and slapped me in the face, yelling,
"Damnit! Look at me!" Look at it I did, and I am stilling pondering about
"The Matrix.""The Matrix" stars Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburn, Carrie-Ann Moss, and Joe
Pantoliano, among others. I have tracked Fishburn's acting career since his
infamous role on "Pee Wee's Playhouse" as "Cowboy Curtis," and I must say, I
am amazed once again. Fishburn with the rest of the actors/actresses perform
stunningly, and leave you wanting more.But what is this Matrix I keep rambling on about? Well, as Fishburn states,
"Unfortunately, no one can be told what the Matrix is. You have to see it
for yourself." That is exactly what you need to do to decipher "The
Matrix."Although I promised myself not to let out too much information on this film,
I have permitted myself to blabber on about what this film has done. It has
done far past my expectations in technology. The slick movements by the
characters, and the martial arts are amazing. Obviously, a lot of work has
been put into this film, and work has done it good.Another point about this film that may be brought to your surprise. The
actual fight scenes, twirling about, action scenes, and so on, were
conducted by the actors themselves, not stuntmen, which also adds another
nice touch to realism. The training that the actors must have gone through
has to be appreciated from this film.Now, after viewing this film, you may decide, "Oh jeez. I thought I was in
for something. This is just another Hollywood show-off of an old, repetitive
storyline." Well, may-be, but "The Matrix" has an insightful and nice touch
to its storyline. It brings it out in a unique way that no film has brought
before. That is why it stands out."The Matrix" is a marvel among movies. This may not get an Oscar or two, but
it definitely stands out among other films. "The Matrix" cannot be explained
unless seen, so for you to discover the mystery behind "The Matrix", you
have to see it, to believe it.

******
8 February 1999
10

I was lucky enough to attend an advance showing of the film..in NYC on
Friday, February 5th..
GO SEE THIS FILM!!!!
It is one of the most incredible, intense...wonderful..exciting..*on the
edge of your seat* films..to come along in a LONG time..very intelligent,
witty,
action packed...Joel Silver introduced the film...and told
us
that it was not completed yet..that only *one* special effect in the film
was 100% done..in the version we were about to see..if this was
*incomplete*..I can't WAIT to see the completed version.  The fight scenes..all done by the actors..no stuntmen..were nailbiting..the wirework is
incredible..It was
nice to see a film of this genre that actually has a really
good
STORY to it as well..GO SEE THIS FILM!!!! Every one of the actors did an
incredible job..Keanu, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss and Hugo
Weaving..who was a trip in this film.  Just knowing the training they went
thru..learning martial arts..it's just amazing...

******
8 May 2005
3
I saw this movie in the theater back in 1999. It had its moments, but
not many. To start, the acting is terrible. Keanu Reeves has the
emotive ability of a toaster, and Carrie Ann Moss is about as
sympathetic as that sexy sidekick babe in a video game. Lawrence
Fishburne comes off a bit better, but his dialogue is the most
pretentious, ridiculous garbage I've ever heard. I imagine the
characters in this film spend about six hours out of every day
designing the leather bondage costumes they'll wear next time they're
in the Matrix.For the first half of the movie, it seems to be interested in
questioning reality, which, as the title to my review suggests, was
already done more topically in previous films. "The Matrix" is
astounded by what it perceives as its own brilliance, but for those of
us who have thought of its ideas before, there are few surprises. Some
people I know were blown away when Neo discovers the truth behind his
reality, but I was waiting for something interesting to happen."The Matrix" has been praised for its originality, but it suffers from
two traditional and clichéd movie formulas. First, Neo is the Chosen
One (notice that "neo" is an anagram of "one." Was this supposed to be
suspenseful?) who is destined to save the human race, bring balance to
the Force, etc. He dies and comes back to life, like Jesus. Of course,
to begin with he was just a pasty hacker in a crummy apartment and an
anonymous office job, giving hope to all the spotty teenage geeks in
the audience that they too might become the Messiah one day.The second fault is the movie's reliance on action. Instead of coming
up with interesting and exciting ways for two people to fight each
other in virtual reality, Neo and Co. whip out their guns and start
shooting. The techno music begins, and the audience is treated to
several slow-motion kicks and scenes of people dodging bullets. I'm not
sure how they manage all this, because nobody ever takes off their
sunglasses to see properly. If the villains of the movie really were
programs in the Matrix, shouldn't they be able to manipulate it without
having to resort to kung fu? Anyway, I didn't like this movie. "Dark
City" is a better, more original version of the same premise, without
the Chosen One nonsense or the martial arts.

******
16 May 2003
3

This has to be the most overrated movie in sci-fi history.  It is way too
long and the acting is stiff, especially Keanu "get me a new facial
expression" Reeves.  Who cares about the special effects when the story is
incoherent and uninteresting?  I certanly don't.  It disturbs me that many
people consider this not only a great movie, but a classic!!!!  Did these
people see the same movie I did.  I saw a dumb action movie with delusions
of grandeur.  I say watch Star Wars again and see what real storytelling is
all about.

******
7 September 1999
1

Bad, too bad film. The idea is good, but then the film is an "stars &
stripes"  film, without fantasy, only special effects, and bad actors, the
usual story, with the good man and the bad man.
No news under the sunAdalberto

******
8 January 2005
1
this movie was a horrible movie. it seems like a little kid movie with
a lot of blood.it takes more than just special effects and explosions to make a movie.
unfortunately most people are to stupid to see that they see a lot of
action and they think , hey, this is a good movie.it makes me sad that so many Americans can't see through this movie and
see that its really a very poorly written story. in the future we're
all in "the matrix" and its all a plan to harvest our body heat. Which
idiot thought up that plot? It seems that the film industry has been
just cranking out a lot of horrible films lately and a lot of fools
have thought that they were good and they made more like them.

******
9 January 2003
3

This is one of those movies who relies on two-thirds special F/X, mixed
with
one-third references to classical literature and Judeo-Christian
mythology,
with near zero coherence.  Unfortunately, this is almost always nearly
enough to dupe the public, which is by and large amazingly stupid and take
any sprinkling of metaphysical rumination as the work of a genius, as long
as it has enough explosions and ickiness mixed in.  The Matrix stars Keanu
Reeves as a Block of Wood, or the other way around, being equally valid.
Keanu Reeves, as Neo, or Jesus Christ, Techno-Savior, with Trinity, Mary
aka
"the Virgin"/Mary Magdalene aka "the whore."  (Maybe someone had a bit of
Freud going on, mother is the saint, but also the whore?  Same first name,
you notice.)  Also, the Holy Black Man, Morpheus, who may or may not
represent God or the Holy Ghost, and a generic Judas, who seeks
wealth/power
through the destruction of Keanu/Christ.  So basically, all that has been
done is take the amendment to the Bible (the New and Improved Testament),
slap on a lacquer of nihilism, technology, and explosions, no acting
ability
from the majority of the cast, a handful of plot holes, a reference to
"Alice in Wonderland," and you have "The Matrix," the movie that succeeded
mainly because it's on the same level as the general public, which is
pretty
sad.  However, there is a positive side to this entire SFX debacle.  Hugu
Weaving, who just somehow manages to be so sexy and cool, especially in
his
outfit.

******
21 October 2014
1
This is unbearable nonsense combined with irritating action scenes. The
film is a continuous insult to the audience's intelligence. We see it
makes no sense, but the film insists that YOU are just being stupid for
not seeing the sense in it. And then it proceeds to throw even more
nonsense at you until you give up trying to make sense out of it. But
here's the problem: if I give up caring, why am I watching? Well, some
get up and leave the theater. Others wait for the action scenes and the
CGI display. Then again, these scenes make no sense either. As time
goes by they become longer and longer. Endless fist fighting in scenes
where everyone seems almost indestructible. Why do I care that a
character is being thrown at the wall if I know it won't hurt him? And
why do they use fists? Why not detonate a bomb? Who knows... And who
cares?The sequels, however, get even worse. Now that the novelty has worn
off, they give you more of the same old nonsense, but they turn up the
volume to 11. More fight scenes, more CGI, more nonsense... They keep
introducing new characters in order to maintain the illusion that there
is a plot here. But there is no plot. These are silly diversions. And
can anyone endure the pseudo-philosophical talk? It's unbearable. But let's get to the political message. No, I'm kidding. I'm not going
there. But if you haven't understood it, what's the point of me telling
you anything?I will say though, that I do not wish to be a part of the kind of
humanity the film depicts, even if we never get to fight evil machines.
There are worse things than machines in this world.

******
30 May 1999
1

Great idea, with very little of that idea transferred to the silver
screen.
Plenty of neat special effects to distract the audience from the flawed
and
empty re-telling of the age old "what is reality" story. A few interesting
bible references, great blue-screening (better than Episode 1 by far), but
with stone-like acting from every cast member, everyone ends up looking
like
part of the machine. If you want to see a movie that really deals with the
issue "what is reality" see Darren Aronofsky's "Pi" (1998). If you want to
see a bunch of fake kung fu, slapped together on an Avid machine to
impress
you, then see the Matrix, but most of these reviewers are mistaken (no
offense); it's really just filler with a bit of truth. Wake
up.

******
9 April 2011
10
Oh yeah. Sure I could elaborate a hyper-massive review here, analyzing
every aspect of the movie in tremendous detail...but at this point in
time, I'll merely settle for a quick, systematic justification for my
title up there.How could anyone claim that for any movie ? How pretentious am I to
impose this premise ? Everybody's different, so no one movie could ever
be the goat...uhhhhh...wrong, but at least consider this:- Such a profound and multi-faceted metaphor about Life, existence. - Script, acting, settings, scene transition and sequencing, music are
simply paradigmatic for this style of dark, cyberpunk epic and cinema
in general.- Crescendos/build-ups are chilling to the bone, fighting/acting scenes
unique (not only is this film ahead of all others conceptually, but it
is also supremely brilliant visually - bullet time, a huge cinematic
technical innovation) + superb camera angles.- Classic myths/ideologies/religious transfiguration/philosophy:Man vs Machine; a post-apocalyptic dystopian future; Plato's cavern
allegory; Kant's phenomenon/noumenon (things as we see them/things as
they are); Jesus Christ and his super-human abilities/prophetic
fulfillment- myth and concept of the Oracle, Resurrection and
salutatory function; Judas, Betrayer; the Choice (blue and red pill
scene); Man mechanizing (think Neo's metamorphosis and holes); and the
magnificent "Sleeping Beauty" theme, when in all hope fading, Love and
Destiny collide and bring the One to the Matrix. Also: the names,
Morpheus (Greek God of Sleep), Neo (anagram of "One"), Trinity...- Roughly all main genres in literature/cinema/art/story telling:
drama, action, humor, horror, psychological thriller, conceptual
piece....yes, all those, think deep.Personal note: all plots, sub-plots are easy to follow and digest, yet
the multi-layered nature of this opus will have you benefiting from a
few re-watches. Philosophically, this movie is mature, and deep; to not
be too complex for the viewing masses, not too cliché and typically
Hollywood for the practicing partisans.Not to even mention this movie created an entire sub-culture, cult
following; "what is the Matrix" ?Thinking of how globally excellent, universally appealing, and
semantically general/generic this film is, only idiots could dis it and
no one with a logical brain and constructive, analytical tools would go
back to saying "quality is only in the eye of the beholder".Convinced ? nope ? oh well...gave it a good shot.

******
18 November 2001
1

Not since "the Six Million Dollar Man" have we seen "super-speed" being
represented by slow-motion, and Matrix takes special FX into the Annoying
Age with its supposedly cutting-edge "3-D" series-of-photographs-shots. A
dull and predictable story and laughably stupid FX. What more could the
general public want? Hmn. Five sequels maybe?1/10 (because "0" wasn't an available choice)

******
4 September 2000
1

perhaps being the last soul on earth to see this film, I honestly cant say I
went into it expecting much, and being as much I cant say i'm dissapointed.
For all the Brouhaha surrounding this special effects marvel, I fail to see
what in fact was so good about it. It was almost all effects, almost to the
point of Nausea, something that Keaunu did little to help. His typical
"Dewd" performance was laughable at best, bordering on the wretched and far
from notable. Fishburne was great as usual, but he couldnt save his piece of
trash and the other 
actors were like a B movie ensemble. Maybe the next film will move up a
notch and actually be watchable.


******
20 April 1999
1

Keanu Reeves should get a best actor nomination for this film. Anyone who
could play this part without giggling deserves a great deal of
credit.

******
26 September 2006
1
For all the people who gives this movie a 10, I notice they are usually
*young* and living the poor attention span world of the video game.
They have no clue about substance, and thus they worship "The Matrix."
Unfortunately, substance is what the Matrix lacks. It is no secret why
the box office has steadily began to fail since the invention of CGI.
It has become too easy to do anything you want in Special Effects, thus
*substance* is no longer as attractive. In movies such as Jaws, you
could not do anything you wanted. The shark didn't work. They had to
use orange barrels to show where the shark could be on the ocean. Thus
*substance,* that is, the plot, had to take over where special effects
could not take us.Unfortunately, the reverse is true of the Matrix. Special effects can
take us anywhere now, and unless there is a really good plot, like in
the Lord of the Rings (because the plot had been written in a time when
splashy special effects were nonexistent) special effects are not
enough to hold a story together. Thus, this is why Peter Jackson's
"King Kong" didn't hold together as well. Find another novel by another
good author Peter. Novels have to have substance, and that is what any
movie needs, regardless of the quality of special effects.Another thing that bothered me about the Matrix was the contrived way
in which it attempted to immerse us into a paranoid world. In just
practical terms, it would take far more energy to run a complete
virtual reality world, than *any engergy* that could be derived from a
human body. Psst! Next time machines, just get a good waterfall and a
hydrolic generator, or even just some wind turbines. Much more
efficient, and the wind turbines won't revolt against you.Seriously. How much "electricity" aka energy can you derive from a
human body? I doubt very seriously the energy output vs. the energy
needed to submerge all of your "prisoners" in a virtual reality world,
would work. Let's face it, the "machines" would be left with a huge
energy deficit.So, I'm sorry, I could not get past that little nugget of factual
error. The entire premise left me unable to suspend disbelief.So sorry all those video game lovers who worship this movie. It isn't
"War and Peace," it isn't "Lord of the Rings" and it isn't even "Do
Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?" (aka Blade Runner). It's just an
excuse for guys dressed in black to do cool, splashy, special effects,
based on a so ridiculously contrived plot, that obviously the plot
wasn't what really mattered.Tell me the movie is cool, fine. Tell me it's the basis for a
philosophy course and I'll tell you, you need to find another college.

******
17 June 1999
3

The Matrix is just another sci-fi film that offers nothing special to the
genre. The only reason everybody dropped their jaws and praised this film
was because of the great special effects and fight scenes. Believe me
there
is a lot more to a film than just it's special effects.The script was mind numbing at times, especially with the whole "We're not
in Kansas anymore" bull crap line, and the acting was just a notch above
awful. The only person that even resembled an actor was Laurence
Fishburne.
Keanu Reeves is his usual self.All in all a pretty terrible movie and everyone's love for it made it even
worse.If you are looking for a good sci-fi flick go out and get "Planet of the
Apes", "A Clockwork Orange", or any one of the Star Wars films. If you are
looking for a good 90's sci-fi flick go get 12 Monkeys cause that has a
lot
more than this, like a script and a plot that is more than paper
thin.

******
20 November 2007
10
Strangely, Matrix is one of the few action films that open my brain to
deep, profound thinking while at the same time it magnetizes me with
the most brutally good action scenes. Putting together the thinking
line of the new generation, where we are just but pawns in a system we
don't understand or belong, Matrix also borrows a lot of the oriental
culture with the fights and it's inner travel over the nature of Life.Little by little one will start to see the light, and everything will
make sense. By the second view, you will get a higher conception. By
your third view this will amaze you. Brawn mixed with brains. The Matrix IS the science fiction film. With a
perfect script that drowns so profoundly into the true nature of
things, and with major, Industrial high tech digital action, I will ask
you this if you haven't seen the movie:-What are you doing reading this instead??

******
26 December 2003
3

The Matrix is the first installment of a "trilogy" of sci-fi movies. In
fact, it's not really a trilogy, in an organic sense, it's just a movie
and
its sequels.Anyway, "The Matrix" is a film with good premises, but bad developments.
Although most of the ideas of the film were taken from sci-fi writers of
the
60's and philosophers of the past (the idea that we exist as a thought, or
a
dream, goes back to Plato at least), the script did a good job in putting
these ideas together in a modern plot (at least as for year 2000). The
oniric influence of recent sci-fi comic books on the film is visible
throughout and is what makes the visual appeal of the film.Unfortunately, what could have been a really good movie has been turned by
the W. brothers into an average action flick targetted at 15 year-old
boys,
among which must belong the guys who wrote this flick is the "best movie"
they've seen. There is almost no acting, and the heros wearing sunglasses
all the time is a good way to avoid any sort of emotion to show on their
faces. This total absence of emotion is one of the reasons why nobody
gives
a f..k whether or not everyone dies in the sequels.The W. brothers have a strong tendency to show off : heroes wearing
sunglasses and Armani black leather coats designed for yuppies, trendy
night-club population, "bullet time" special FX, (ugly) kung fu video game
action, heavy metal and techno music during the whole film, etc. All this
is
supposed to make the film look "kewwwwl". In opposition to the heros, the
agent Smith wears a dark working suit : he is not cool (although he also
wears sunglasses, but that's because he is a spy agent).But what really turns me off is the pretense of the
religioso-philosophico-technobabble
which hardly hides the vacuity of the characters and the serious
weaknesses
of the script. There are so many other films which say much more with
less,
that this film looks highly overblown in comparison.I'm not even trying to elaborate on the sequels, which, instead of
correcting these problems, show them in their full splendor.In a word, this flick is highly overrated. But hey, who cares ? The
"trilogy" has ripped off enough spectators to make the Warner
happy.

******
27 March 2006
9
When it first premiered in the spring of 1999, I believe few
individuals could predict the impact that The Matrix would have, not
just on cinema, but on pop culture in general. What began as a modestly
budgeted action-science fiction film starring an actor with little
thespian acclaim quickly became a touchstone for the popular zeitgeist,
and arguably cut into the popularity and impact of the soon to be
released Star Wars Episode I. Time has not been kind to the franchise
that was The Matrix: the two back to back produced sequels, The Matrix
Reloaded and The Matrix Revolutions, were met with critical derision
and public indifference, especially Revolutions, which did not live up
to the box-office success of Reloaded. However, looking back at the
original film, it's easy to be reminded of why The Matrix was such a
hit in the first place.For those unaware of the basics, The Matrix focuses on Thomas Anderson,
aka Neo (Keanu Reeves), a computer hacker who is searching out a fellow
hacker, Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), whom Neo believes will give him
answers to several questions he is holding, most specifically the
question "What is The Matrix?" Neo eventually meets Morpheus through an
associate of his, Trinity (Carrie-Ann Moss), and Neo is finally told
what he may not have truly been ready to hear: The Matrix is an
interactive software program that the entire human population is
connected to and through which they appear to live out normal lives. In
reality, humans are connected to a giant power plant and are held here
by a race of sentient machines that have conquered the world and use
humans as a power source. To keep them under control, they are attached
to The Matrix, but some humans have managed to break free from the
machine's control and are now building a resistance, with the eventual
intention of destroying the machines and the Matrix and freeing all
humans from bondage. Morpheus believes that one of the keys to
accomplishing this goal is Neo, whom he believes is "The One", an
individual with the power to control and reshape the Matrix at will,
and who will lead the humans to victory.To be completely honest, much of the Matrix is not tremendously new.
Many elements are lifted from countless science-fiction novels and
stories, and the film's writers-directors, The Wachowski Brothers,
Larry and Andy, were unabashed in their love of particular types of
cinema that they liberally ape here: martial arts and action movies, as
well as a hint of Japanese Anime. However, as a package deal, The
Matrix works stunningly well. While those who have read science
fiction, or are fans of the genres of film that the Wachowski Brothers
used as their inspiration for The Matrix, may be able to recognize some
aspects of the film, most viewers of mainstream cinema would not have
seen most of the components in The Matrix, therefore making it a unique
experience. Even for those that can pick out the source elements, The
Matrix is an entertaining blend of much of the familiar in fresh
packaging. It's difficult to remember now, with all the knockoffs and
"homages" in the years since, what a new look and feel The Matrix had
at the time. The fetishistic use of black leather costumes, the
impressive martial-arts sequences, the elaborate visual effects, most
specifically the "bullet-time" super-slow-motion shots and the film's
rather understated religious undertones were not worn out and overused
by countless other films picking at The Matrix's bones. Everything here
was new to the mass audience, and that alone could account for a large
chunk of the film's success.Now, with the hindsight of seeing the two sequels, it's easy to see
what a pared-down film The Matrix truly was. While it is obvious that
the film has to take time to set up it's characters and situations, it
is a very fast paced film, with very little fat on it. The Matrix
glides along, never overstaying it's welcome in a particular scene and
sequence. Many accused Reloaded of being a overstuffed film, but none
of that is in The Matrix.One of the film's greatest strengths is it's character development.
Neo, Morpheus and Trinity are not the most fleshed out characters in
film history, but at the same time, they are not shallow. Each is
developed enough to give us some insight into them, becoming
individuals that we come to be invested in. Neo especially, being the
focus of the film, is given the most screen time, and he acts as a
surrogate for the audience, taking us slowly into the world of the
film, allowing the new environs and situations to unfold in a natural,
unforced way.Visually, The Matrix is stunning. It's production design and visual
effects are both noteworthy (the film won the Academy Award for best
visual effects for that year), with the ever popular "bullet-time"
sequences, as mentioned previously, being the standout. The Matrix also
benefits from the decision made by the filmmakers to have the main
actors train to perform most of the fighting sequences themselves,
giving them all the more verisimilitude, as opposed to stunt doubles.Despite the bad taste left in many viewers and fans mouths by the two
sequels, The Matrix is still a powerful and memorable piece of film
that is as influential and pivotal as the Star Wars franchise, and
deserves it's place in history.

******
4 March 2005
1
Oh dear..... The amount of people who saw this movie and loved it makes
me worry about the state of humanity.I saw this movie because some of my so called friends were saying how
excellent this movie was ( I have seriously questioned my friendships
with these people after this disaster!!!) and to say it was rubbish is
an understatement.Keanu Reeves who plays the 'hero' role, is one of the most wooden
actor's and in this movie he just plays Ted from Bill and Ted but in
leather!! Thats not to say that I do not like Bill and Ted as I enjoyed
both of them. But to have Reeves playing him in every film is a bit
much.The story is boring and all the acting is poor. Why did they bother
with this movie. If I wanted to watch a truly great sci-fi movie I
would watch any of the Star Wars films.When watching this movie I broke into a cold sweat and started
uncontrollably shivering - The film had made me ill. After sitting
through it, I had to bleach my DVD player to get rid of the foul stench
of rubbish.

******
11 November 2015
10
this movie did many things to me. one of the most noticeable things was
it angered me to the point where i throw douglas, my diabetic cat, at
the furnace when all this nonsense was going on with the guns and the
leather. please F*CK this movie. i don't like being all mad all angry, im sorry. and im sorry the cat
too. seriously why this movie happens? i don't knowbut honest speaking, thing i really liked was morpheus glasses. i don't
think he was looking through them, only at them. think about this.thank you everybody IMDb, god bless 2015.Rico

******
27 August 2015
6
its my fast English . i watched . thanks great movie . maximum sequence
still now i remember . from my memory this movie have one fight in
running in car . i stocked saw this fight . its unbelievable fighting
.its my fast English . i watched . thanks great movie . maximum
sequence still now i remember . from my memory this movie have one
fight in running in car . i stocked saw this fight . its unbelievable
fighting .its my fast English . i watched . thanks great movie .
maximum sequence still now i remember . from my memory this movie have
one fight in running in car . i stocked saw this fight . its
unbelievable fighting .its my fast English . i watched . thanks great
movie . maximum sequence still now i remember . from my memory this
movie have one fight in running in car . i stocked saw this fight . its
unbelievable fighting .

******
8 January 2015
9
"The Matrix" is a modern classic and visually stunning and technically
incredible movie.It's an awesome adventure with great visuals and cinematography, great
action sequences and great soundtracks.It combined many innovative visual effects that had never been seen on
movie before.All the performances by the actors are good. The story is very
interesting and engaging.I recommend everyone to watch "The Matrix", because it's really cool
movie.

******
1 October 2012
6
The Matrix is humans against the machines. The machines have almost
ruined the entire human race, and a group of people must come together
against all odds to battle the malicious machines to save what is left
of the year 2199. This movie is not just packed with action, but
allusions and symbolism as well. In the Matrix, there are various
allusions to the classic story, Alice in Wonderland. In one pivotal
scene, Neo is told to follow the "white rabbit." He has to make the
choice to either follow a girl with a white rabbit tattoo and or to
stay at home, just as Alice had to make the choice to follow the
rabbit. The white rabbit symbolizes Neo's curiosity to learn more about
what is the Matrix. Another allusion is when Neo is forced to make the
decision to either go home, or take a red pill to "find out just how
deep the rabbit hole goes." The red pill symbolizes the journey Neo
will take to find out the truth about the Matrix, just as Alice had to
make the decision to go on her journey. These references to Alice and
Wonderland allow the audience to realize that Neo is embarking on a
journey to a different "world." The writers and directors of the film,
Larry and Andy Wachowski, create symbolism in the manner in which they
name locations and characters in the film. In classic mythology,
Morpheus is the god of dreams. He is named this because he is a leader
of a "sleepy" society. In the year 2199 the only place human race still
thrives is in the city of Zion. This city is never seen. But by not
showing it, one could say that it represents Heaven. It is the only
place where people can live safely. This city is called Zion because in
the Old Testament, Zion is the heavenly city for people to live in
safely. The religious themes continue throughout the film with the
character Trinity. Trinity represents the number three, which relates
to the "father," "son," and the "holy spirit." The Wachowski brothers
are able to illustrate the differences between the virtual reality of
1999 and the present 2199 very well. When in 1999, the workers are
portrayed as "drones," or people who act like robots/machines. They are
blissfully unaware that their version of reality is not real and their
minds are being used to power machines. It is always sunny, which
represents that the virtual reality of the Matrix is far better than
the present. When Neo is shown what 2199 actually looks like, he is
stunned. There is no sun, only darkness. Morpheus' group must live in
the dark underground tunnels referred to as sewers, while Neo learns
his true potential. The darkness represents that the future is bleak
and that humans have the potential to ruin their own planet. The
contrast between the two time periods represents the fight between good
and evil. All action films are in constant motion. Because the Matrix
is an action movie, this means it was in constant motion. The Matrix is
definitely action-packed; too action- packed in my opinion, being
filled with battle scenes that set up good versus evil. Because the
battles take place in virtual computer software, everyone has higher
capabilities for fighting, running, etc. The battles seem to be the
same ones over and over again, until the very end of the movie. I began
to form the attitude that this film lacks creativity when it comes to
the fight scenes. The special effects are very advanced in this film
for being released in the nineties. The characters have the ability to
scale walls and do advanced karate and Kung-Fu. The ability to switch
from 1999, to a computer program, to 2199 is very impressive. Having
grown up in the technological age of our society, I have learned from
personal experiences that technology rules our lives. From making tea
on the stove in the morning, to checking email throughout the day on
both phones and computers, to using a kindle to read in the evening,
one is always using technology. In the film The Matrix, an underlying
message can be taken to not rely on technology, because it can be the
downfall of civilization. But has society reached a point in which life
cannot be sustained without technology? Before watching this film, I
had previous knowledge that one can be oppressed in society. Examples
of this can be seen in dictatorships worldwide. However, this film has
taught me that society controls the way one feels, dresses, works, etc.
To be different is to be great. Being outspoken will change the world
for the better. Neo learned to be different and overcame the challenges
to defeat his enemies in the end.

******
27 December 2010
9
The matrix an amazing movie by Wachowski brothers has an excellent plot
and an amazing action... for those of u who like a nail biting
sequence, this one is for u.... a beautiful blend of Maya software has
given this movie an amazing reputation in d Hollywood.... keanu reeves
looks stunning in dis movie wid an beautiful combat outfit along wid
Carey Ann moss.... Anderson(reeves) is a programmer for a private
company who does underground stuff in d night masking himself wid d
name neo.. as he is tracked by d matrix, is made to understand that he
is d one who is selected to save d so called underworld "Zion" how neo
accept es to save d Zion, how he understands that he is d one... how he
fights all d things and d people who stand in his way is d movie... and
all u got to do is to sit and watch dis movie and enjoy Ur 90 min of
fun.... keanu reeves rocks:) guys if u find dis review useful plzz
vote... or if u want me to improve on it plz to tell me....thank u SO
much people...:)

******
27 April 2005
9
The Wachowski brothers have done it. They have brought back the sci-fi
industry in an amazing film. The Matrix is complex and deep. Could this
really happen?Mr. Anderson (Keuna Reeves) is the best computer hacker in The City. He
is odd yet skilled with computers, and he has come upon something
strange. Something called the Matrix. After being confronted by a woman
named Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) he meets an alleged leader named
Morpheus (Laurence Fishbourne) and is transported out of his world. He
is dropped, cold and naked into a underground lake with no town and
people in sight. Everything is of machines.He is picked up by a hovercraft and slips out of conscious. He awakens
to find himself aboard Morpheus' ship and learns that a war is raging
between the humans and the machines in the real world. The world Neo is
from is an illusion, not real. Now Neo is the last hope for the people
as he is the Chosen One against the corrupt machines and a agent of the
machines called Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving). The Matrix is the best Sci-Fi film since the 1st Star Wars Film (1977)
and does not disappoint at any level. The story is deep, complex and
overall ingenious the way it is crafted. The dark, cold world, under
the control of the machines is haunting and dark. The acting is near
perfect, Reeves is tough and naive in his training. Fishbourne is
perfect as the mentor of the troubled Chosen One. The film begins a
story for what the life of Christ is like and is simply explained in
the second and third film. The Wachowski brothers have made a classic
sci-fi that will not be forgotten, at least for its special effects.The Matrix. Starring: Keuna Reeves, Carrie-Anne Moss, Laurence
Fishbourne, Hugo Weaving, and Joe Pantoliano.4 1/2 out of 5 Stars.

******
9 November 2001
10

Well obviously so because that really seems to be the only reason people
like this movie.  From the sound of this you may think I hated this movie,
but I didn't.  The special effects are truly breathtaking.  Don't get me
wrong, I love this movie!  Thomas A. Anderson/Neo(Keanu Reeves) makes a horrifying discovery; that life
as he knows it, is just a dream.  A cover-up for the real world.  The real
world is basically nothing but endless and endless fields of comatose humans
that are used by killer machines as a source of energy.  He is rescued by
Morpheus(the great Laurence Fishburne) and Trinity(Carrie-Anne Moss).  Neo
is later introduced to the "real world" and is informed of his role in the
rebellion against the controllers of it.    Keanu Reeves is awesome in this movie.  It's glad to see that his stoner
image is starting to fade away.  He was awesome in Point Break and Speed. 
The great Laurence Fishburne is just what he always is, great!  His role as
Morpheus was probably the most important role in this movie.The main problem that I have with this movie is it's story.  It's basically
the Terminator all over again except with better special effects.  Numerous
influences from many other science-fiction films are everywhere in this
movie.  Most notably The Terminator, Blade Runner, the Star Wars Trilogy,
and even Jacob's Ladder(cuz it deals with issues of what's real and what's
fantasy). Aside from it's flaws, The Matrix is still an excellent sci-fi adventure
with some truly amazing stuntwork and breathtaking special
effects.10/10

******
15 December 1999
3

If you have a DVD player you should definately have this film. Not only
does
it have some of the best sound I've heard on a DVD, it has a great picture.
This is one of the reasons to buy a DVD player, the other being Saving
Private Ryan.

******
17 August 2014
3
1. The portal between the Matrix and supposed to be the real world was
extremely ridiculous, old phones ringing and that's it? seriously???
While the whole thing is pure fiction, within the boundaries of that
fiction, audience expects to receive a reasonably believable action
and/or explanation and in case of the portal, the thing is so cheap
that is beyond any explanation so maybe that's why they just left it
unexplained and I thank them for not attempting to insult my
intelligence. It was 1930s cheap!2. Apparently the director(s) were into antiques. Old Lincoln car, old
phones, old TVs... I love antiques too but using those stuff in the
movie was like an unmatched patch on hole on pair of jeans! Some may
find it fashionable but I say its just irrelevant, and it was an
irrelevancy overdone!3. To elicit emotion in a good screenplay, hero and villain(s) should
be fundamentally the same and that similarity should be explained early
in the movie otherwise there would be no elicited emotion on audience
side as a result of their conflict. In this movie there was absolutely
no similarity between the hero and villain except a cheesy explanation
near the end of movie which aside from being so cheesy, it was also too
late and as a result, confrontations between Nemo and the agent
throughout the movie were among the most senseless I've ever seen on
big screen. It was good action (for year 1999) but that was it! no
emotion, no excitement!4. Villains had no weakness(es). They could virtually do anything,
there was no limit to their power. On scree writing point, the
villain(s) of the movie were pure disaster and at the end, Nemo was
dead! So he came to life again after the kiss of the true love (thank
you for making me laugh a bit) and all the sudden he became the one who
could do anything better that villains and destroyed them... really???If I want to explain this movie in a short sentence I would say I was a
giant pimp truck running on mini copper tire on rear left, 18 wheeler
tire of on rear right, regular truck tire on front left and no tire at
all on front right! yes, it was that bad and yet it was successful
because of the action and relatively innovative special effects for a
time. Also for those who claim that the movie was philosophical... No
it was not. The story was not new and there were numerous books and
movies on the subject of what if this world is just a dream. That is an
evergreen subject and this movie was just an attempt to capitalize on
an evergreen subject.

******
31 December 2011
3
It was truly bizarre seeing millions of stupid people who literally
disliked intellectual pursuits suddenly become enlightened geniuses
practically overnight...This film had an immense effect on the population and it should be
remembered for that, not for being a good film, which it is not.The plot: Let me see... Have you ever heard of a thing called history?
Yes, it is a bunch of things that have already happened ,things in
history are already "old hat". This film takes one of the most basic
ideas from history, the idea that what we perceive as reality might not
actually be what we think it is. Yeah, that's deep, right? Yes, kind of
deep but not too deep, we don't want to scare anyone off now do we?
This film takes this idea and runs with it, it is the whole film,
without it it would just be a bunch of bondage enthusiasts running
around like weirdos. It takes something that is already a major cliché
and beats it so hard into the ground that it comes out in China and
even they don't want it because they practically invented it to begin
with! This old, yawn-inducing idea from ancient history is portrayed as
cutting edge thought that the Wankoffski brothers came up with because
they are mad geniuses and the whole aim of the film is to make the
viewer buy more of their films by making the viewer feel like an
intellectual.The acting: Have you ever seen what happens when people pat each other
on the back so much that nobody stops to say "Hey! Wait a minute, this
is ridiculous!"? Well that is what Hollywood is missing, that guy to
tell people where the line is drawn. This film is ridiculous, along
with the boring old "deep" plot (with aliens!!!) the actors are like a
bunch of coke-heads running around practically ejaculating on each
other the whole time. It is scary stuff but it is what millions of
people expect to see. Are these millions of people intelligent,
tasteful people? No, they are not but they are who this film is for.
The grunts, the social whores, the mind numbing dinner guest who only
talks about cars, the McDonald's employee who HASN'T got a college
education... Nobody else could take this acting seriously.The special effects: Wow, when this film came out the effects were
amazing and even though it is void of any merit outside of the effects,
they should be remembered for being very impressive. It's just a shame
that there wasn't a single scene where these effects weren't rammed
down your throat, making you choke on them. This could have been to
distract the feeble-minded from the other points above.Well, there's my "review", I loathe this film and I loathe even more
the pseudo-intellectuals it created out of millions of complete and
utter morons. How so many people can have so little to say and to say
it so loudly is just staggering... I give it 3/10.

******
1 July 2010
10
A computer hacker (Keanu Reeves) is recruited to help expose an
alternative reality designed by invading machines to enslave humanity.
The film contains many references to the cyberpunk and hacker
subcultures.The Matrix was a hugely successful and influential science-fiction
blockbuster - a nerd's wet dream, essentially, though less profound and
original than it thinks, particularly in its representation of a
dystopian futurescape. It deserves credit for at least attempting to
blend state-of-the-art thrills, each set-piece insistent on topping the
one before, with a more existential line of inquiry (or a line of
inquiry as existential as a Joel Silver film will allow).

******
22 May 2001
2

(sorry, my English is not the better I know...)No! Matrix isn't a good film and certainly not the best of its
year.
In my opinion, the movie has a single interest: its special effects! But
when you have seen the best ones of them more than one hundred times
before
seeing the movie in the traders broadcasted 24h/24 at TV...
The actors will not remain in my memory too; and the characters are all
but
deep (special award to Trinity, ridiculous).The scenario can seem original to those who don't know anything about
science fiction.  The others will recognize topics taken from different
films ;  the main idea of the movie, the matrix, is close to the usual
topics from novels of Philip K Dick too (just read "The three stigmatas of
Palmer Eldritch"! for example).  Shortly, the scenario is not
so
strong as so many people are telling us, and if the initial idea
is
powerful, the screenwriters have probably rest after.My conclusion: if you like special effects, or if you don't know anything
in
Science Fiction, you can watch Matrix
Else, watch Blade Runner, Existenz ... or even Star Wars.

******
26 March 2001
4

1st watched 11/21/1999 - 4 out of 10(Dir-The Wachowski
brothers):
Gimmic movie that bores you because of it's overbearing unlikeliness to real
life.Yeah, I know that's what it's supposed to be, but if all you're going
to do is put a non-feeling action movie in a different setting I'm not
interested.This is what is done here.


******
17 December 2000
2

A film with the sort of depth only Keanu Reeves could capture.  Really
nifty
eye-candy; really weak script.  Like Independence Day with LESS substance.
..if that's possible.  Anyway, in the era of "high-concept" films, can't
someone who can write dialogue actually get to come in and make it so you
don't cringe at the spoken words in between Industrial Light & Magic
effects?

******
27 January 2000
2

The movie doesn't get any better than the scenes in the preview and those
aren't that good if the first place.  One of the most overrated movies in a
long time, and that includes both totally overrated Austin Powers movies. 
Keanu still can't act and putting him in a role where he is supposed to be
smart is an absolute joke.  Watch Dark City, it is a much better film.    


******
21 January 2000
2

Went to see this with my girlfriend and we both spent the last hour just
waiting for it to be over.  If I wanted to see pretty effects, I'd watch a
PC, I go the cinema to see films.  Some half-a**ed ideas but thats all
they
were, half-a**ed.  Dialogue was sometimes funnily bad but mostly just
excruciating.  I do not understand why this film has the status it does -
it
says very little for our culture that something so shallow and stupid can
be
held up as being somehow sublime.

******
5 January 2000
2

If you saw the previews, you saw the movie.  I was not impressed at all by
this film.  It can't compare to Dark City which was a much better film. 
Keannu still can't act to save his life.  The ending was lame.  " True Love"
bringing back Keannu from the dead?  Pure Garbage.  A serious waste of money
in making this film.    

******
1 November 1999
3

The concept is original, but I was amazed at how unintentionally hilarious
most of this film is. All those times characters kept reverentially
referring to blank, uninspiring Keanu Reeves as "the one"; all the over the
top martial arts posing and meaningless, new-agey babble - this is just an
under-ventilated, overblown hodgepodge of a few good ideas hopelessly
overpowered by a dizzying number of brainless cliches.Once again, the MTV generation mistakes a lot of noise and flashy editing
for good filmmaking. If it wasn't for the clever special effects, this would
be MSTK3 fodder all the way. 

******
3 September 1999
2

There are some movies that, at least for me, look like they'd work better
as
a comic book (or "graphic novel") than as a movie, that present an
effective
series of images but which raise untoward questions when real human actors
have to convince viewers this is for real.  "The Fifth Element" and "Men
in
Black" were two such movies--in fact, the former was partly designed by a
comix artist, and the latter adapted from a comic book
series.I know of no graphic forerunners for "The Matrix", but I would group it
with
"comic book movies" of this sort.  The good part is that it's quite a bit
smarter than the usual CBM, with serious attention paid to the
underpinnings
of the plot and even an effort to get in some real science some of the
time.
The bad part is that the filmmakers haven't quite thought everything
through.  (SPOILER WARNING: skip to the next paragraph if you don't want
to
read this.)  I liked very much Agent Smith's explanation of why the bad
guys
don't keep humanity complacent with a simulated utopia, chosing the late
20th century instead.  On the other hand, if they need human
bioelectricity
as an energy source--in other words, if it's strictly human bodies they
need--why don't they just scrap the simulation and lobotomize everybody?
(Is it possible that they need fully developed human minds for some other
reason?  If so, why?)  If the filmmakers had at least addressed this
question, it would have added some backbone to the plot, which needs all
the
support it can get.  Oh well, maybe they're saving it for the
sequel.Otherwise, the standard strengths and weaknesses of CBM's apply here.
Forget the gunplay, explosions, and other such mayhem--throw an egg
anywhere
in a multiscreen theater these days, and you've got even chances of
splatting into a movie featuring these prominently.  Beyond that, "The
Matrix" contains more than its fair share of stunning images, some
disturbing, some mindbending, and a few both.I had problems with the acting, though, or maybe it was the way the actors
were directed.  When descending into the Matrix, the good guys show almost
no emotions at all.  It's like since they know the Matrix isn't "real",
they
can't be bothered having any feelings about it.  This fits with the plot,
but makes it hard to identify with the characters.  (Fortunately, everyone
seems more human on the ship, a special relief in the case of the
excellent
actor Laurence Fishburne.)The only actor to avoid this difficulty is Keanu Reeves, arguably because
his character is struggling with the "reality" of the Matrix over the
course
of the film.  You can almost watch him shedding emotions bit by bit as he
gets control of the situation.  (Frankly, I think he's more convincing and
compelling as a fallible but highly competent hero of the sort he played
in
"Speed" than as a potential world-savior.)The upshot: a good but not great film, well worth watching for its unique
and compelling parts, but (my usual complaint) not what it could have
been.

******
28 June 1999
2

I'm appalled to see that this movie has such a high rating! I saw this
movie
a few weeks ago and I'm STILL confused. Possibly one of the most
unbelievable and stupid movies of our time. The whole plot was beyond
comprehension and not very well organized to say the least. The only way
to
tell what world they were in was Keanu's hair. Yeah, that's creative. I
would rather eat nails than see this horrid excuse for a movie
again.

******
26 June 1999
2

There have been, in the past, films from the science fiction genre that
were
brilliant & innovative, i.e. 2001 or Blade Runner. The Matrix, however, is
more of an action flick than anything else.While it starts with an interesting storyline premise, the story and
character development start to disappear about 30 minutes into the movie
in
favor of the more visually-appealing action scenes. While the eye candy is
technically very well done, the actual content of the film slides into the
background and eventually fades completely from sight. The one exception
to
this is Keanu Reeves' glaringly bad portrayal of the hero. His one-liner
delivery and annoying poses made me groan in disgust several times. I
would
think that by now American audiences would have shunned him like the
no-talent hack he is. Other performances range from pretty good (Hugo
Weaving) to so-so (Carrie-Anne Moss) generally, but Laurence Fishburne's
respectable ability is squandered in a role that is not worthy of him.In summary, if you like eye candy -and even I sometimes do- you may be
able
to enjoy The Matrix, if you completely ignore the main character. But if
you're a sci-fi fan waiting for an intelligent, watchable film, you will
just have to keep waiting.

******
26 June 1999
2

While watching the Matrix an image suddenly came to my mind. I pictured a
man, late 50's wearing a smart suit & puffing on a big fat cigar. He sits
at
the end of a table addressing a number of similar persons who all listen
tentatively to every word which the man says. The man takes a big puff on
his
cigar & leans forward & says "what we need is something for the
kids".Watching the Matrix you suddenly realise that it is probably the most
precisely made film since the Studio System was in force, every aspect is
made to appeal to a young (15-30 yr old) audience, & market forces have
been
well taken into account.
The lighting is neo-gothic similar to that found in Seven & The Crow, The
camerawork is so John Woo I'm surprised he did'nt sue for plagerism. &
it's a
story about the internet, & hey, the kids 'dig' the internet, don't they?
add a metal/big beat soundtrack & hey presto, a film the kids will
loveThe Directors have in fact taken so much time over including enough cool
effects (as well as advertising Nokia phones) that they have seemed to
have
not worried themselves over simple features such as plot, amount of holes
left in it are worrying, for instance why are the rebels (I use Rebels in
want of a better word) stationed in a space ship? why do we never see
Zion?
& also how come they can defy gravity yet they are unable to jump off
buildings/fly etc etc?The acting is also bottom rate, in fact it seems that the Directors
realised
that Keanu can't act, so did.nt bother asking him to. However Laurence
Fishburn & Hugo Weaving are both good actors yet little is asked of them.
Carrie-Ann Moss as Trinity is poor, although her charcter is supposed to
be
deeply in love with Neo (played by Reeves, also do you notice Neo, anagram
for....I won't spoil it for those who have'nt seen the film yet) the lack
of
chemistry between the two characters is so un-reveling that the situation
has to be spelt out by a third party. However it should be acted that the
Script is one of the worst I've seen, full of the Cliches & Remarks which
movie executives think are cool & funny yet often fall flat, indeed most
of
the script is so cringe worthy & predictable that only someone who has'nt
seen a Big Budget Shoot-em-up in the last 10 years would be surprised. In
fact
many people have commented on how the film tries to tackle a new
imaginative
ide, however all I thought was that it took an idea from 19th century
literature in man against Machine & put a few philisophical theories in
tow,
add technology & hey presto. That's not imagination, that's reading
books.However the film does offer some pleasures, for instance the Kung Fu
sequence between Neo & Morphius (Fishburn) is the most camp fight sequence
since Jacky Chan became a star although campness is'nt something I think
the
Directors aimed for, Indeed the clothes (lots of leather) is realitively
camp
once again yet you get the feeling that the Directors thought that their
dress sense was 'cool'. However, apart from this, the film falls apart
falls
apart, Indeed some of it seems too long, with the fight sequences & gun
battles often being too long, in fact over emphasise in a
Tarantinoloveofgunsandshootingthingsisreallycool way. In fact the only
thing
that amazed me about the sequences was how it was shot, the amount of
flying
debris must have injured two or three cameramen in the
process.On the whole The Matrix is dumb, unimaginative, & poorly made & shows why
Hollywood has suffered against an independent film industry able to
produce
much better & imaginative films than Hollywood. Seven & The Usual Suspects
are far better films & even though the love affair with guns is similar to
John Woo, at least his films (at least earlier films) had a bit of
characterisation, Indeed, it seems that the directors believe that the
main
appeal of Tarantino lies in the gun fights, not in the far better
developed
realtionships between the characters which I find interesting. The Matrix,
what a Turkey, makes Godzilla look a not bad film


******
12 June 1999
2

It's hard to believe that people say they like this better than Star Wars.
The chic, flip cyberpunk postmodernism will wear thin in a year, mark my
words. This is not a timeless movie.

******
12 June 1999
2

I'm afraid I fell for the hype on this one.  Proof yet again that a film
cannot survive on special effects and flashy direction alone The Matrix
died
within an hour.  The scenes that relied on neither of these (ie the scenes
where the characters had to TALK to each other) were very boring and
exposed
the film's complete lack of emotional core.  The characters are shallow
and
artificial and you don't care what happens to any of them.  Reeves' acting
is as bad as ever.  It clearly has pretensions to being an 'intelligent'
movie - lots of scientific and philosophical references in the script but
it's just name dropping (or idea dropping). A miserable experience.


******
27 May 1999
2

Walking out of this movie, I felt giddy and excited.  It was a fun flick
with impressive special effects that didn't seem entirely tacked
on.But the more I thought about it, the more I felt cheated and manipulated.
The plot was fairly decent... for the first half of the film.  Then it
pulls
out and lets the special effects take over.  I know the purpose of film is
to manipulate emotions, but being stroked into thinking a movie is great
because it looked pretty is just insulting.I recommend seeing it at least once, especially on a big screen, but not
because it's the great sci-fi film everyone's touting it to be--because
it's
a good two hours of mindless entertainment with some decent loud music and
entrancing special effects.

******
24 May 1999
2

This movie had a good plot and could have been a good move, done right. 
However, it went too far in terms of violence.  In a day where tragedies
like the one in Littleton Colorado, we need to reconsider the violence in
our entertainment.  This is definitely not a movie to let children
see.

******
20 May 1999
2

OK, the special effects in this movie were incredible at times. However,
they could not make up for the poor acting, poor writing ("Dorothy...were
not in Kansas anymore...")and overdone characters. My friend and I left
before it was over, not able to stomach it anymore. The concept of altered
realty/art. intelligence was thought provoking, but the movie was "ruined"
by the silly, overdone characters and bland script. What is up with the
goofy sunglassess? Why can't these humans, who supposedly have incredible
technology and intelligence, at least illuminate/properly light their
environment? Why is everything so dank and gloomy? Finally, we found the
secondary line of characters to be downright annoying and cartoon-like. If
you love special effects, go see this movie. If not, I wouldn't
bother.

******
3 April 1999
3

I liked this movie.  The cgi was mindblowing.  Some of the best and most
realistic I've ever seen.  The plot was a little typical.  I mean the Men
In
Black have been used to death.

******
23 January 2015
7
This movie looks cool.I think I could end the review there. I should end the review there if
I want it to stay really positive about the film. That is what this
movie is about: its looks.This is a movie that either invented or perfected bullet time, which is
actually two effects in one: the effect of bullets flowing through the
air in slow motion leaving trails behind them and the filming of an
object that is frozen in place by using several still cameras and
digital motion compensation. The green computer code (digital rain) has
become a signature Matrix effect as well as the effect of showing a 3D
image in Matrix code. The black longcoat outfits, which by the way is a
look that I had invented for myself long before this movie was created
(maybe that is what bothers me the most about it), have become
universally associated with that movie. Just say the "Matrix outfit"
and people know.The action is jaw dropping and the acrobatic scenes with guns and
martial arts are superbly choreographed.This film can have all the Oscars for its visuals but this can never
fix the fact that the story is garbage.Now, the way the events are structured is fine and the movie is
actually really good at keeping tension. It is quite mysterious and
awesome until the premise is revealed. Everything that happens after
that moment and everything that happened before it stops making sense.
I do not want to spoil anything, but your enjoyment of the film from
that moment on is entirely dependent on your ability to let go of
thinking. This ability is granted to many people because of how awesome
the visuals and audio presentatoin is, but that persentation eventually
ends and common sense kicks you in the head...well, at least it should
have.How is the acting? I will tell you when I see more of it, because for
most of the movie the characters are walking around with no expressions
on their faces and lines are spoken calmly. Isn't that convenient. Not
only that, but their eyes, the most expressive part of a human face,
are covered with sunglasses. Those f$&*%(g sunglasses, man! All these
people are wearing sunglasses when there is no sun...like at
night...indoors.This film has indeed entered the depth of popular culture. A near
infinite amounts of spoof videos and cartoons have been made and many
would call that an ultimate compliment, and to some degree it is a
complement, at least a complement to the film's visual presentation.But upon closer examination, I have never heard any of the quotes from
this film be used with respect like something from the Godfather movies
would be. It is fun to make fun of the film's silly writing.The bottom line is that this film was visually innovative and unique,
and because that was its whole gimmick right from the start, it
deserves praise. However, the acting and the underlying story in this
film are terrible. Additionally, various people started attributing
some sort of philosophy to this movie that is not there. There have
even been books written on the subject. This makes either the movie or
the people doing the attributing very pretentious. I would like to
believe it is the latter and that Matrix is a show that is meant to be
admired for what it is: a flashy cool action scene.

******
28 December 2006
2
I saw this film on its release, and I have to admit, i was impressed
with what I saw. But, this was 7 years ago, I was but a young,
impressionable teenage whose questions had to be answered by the latest
quasi, pseudo relevant material that certain elements of the media
decree are 'good', and so champion it beyond its 'merits'. Looking back at it now, i have to wonder at what seems to be somewhat
dangerous religious overtones. The last surviving outpost for 'free'
humans is a city called Zion. Everything about the characters reeks of
'discipleness'. You have a Jesus figure (Morpheus) who has 'freed' a
number of humans (akin to disciple's with their belief in his
infallibility). Then, rather bizarrely a second Jesus figure emerges in
the guise of 'Neo'. Then, a prophet, or 'oracle' turns up just to
mystify things further (or rather, to make it plainly clear that the
plot has lost all sense of direction and purpose). The idea that we are
'controlled' by others, or that we are submissive slaves to a higher
'power' is neither new nor thought provoking, and especially not so
when represented in such a pitifully weak manner. Are we expected to
believe that 'our saviour' will just happen to be 'born' and has our
best interests at heart? Sound like a familiar story? (I haven't seen
the sequels and don't wish to.) The film tries to marry breath taking
visuals (which I have to say, although technically good, lack
originality! See movies by John Woo and you'll know what I mean) with
the undertone of religious martyrdom, with the intention of? I'm not
sure, because upon second viewing the movie left me with a bitter taste
(a pill I couldn't swallow if you like) in my mouth. Nothing was
resolved, the characters hadn't developed into anything, you got the
impression they were all waiting for Neo to 'burst' into action, and it
looked on screen like Keanu was waiting for it too...All in all, a very underwhelming experience, sometimes worrying in its
subliminal undertones and allusions to religious archetypes as
saviours. Unlikely that the masses who heap acclaim on this movie as
'trendy' and 'cool' will see past its hollow questions and non-existent
answers and continue to believe that its 'mindblowing stuff'. Which, in
a way, is even more worrying because its seems that people no longer
want an engaging cinema experience, just cheap thrills and 'hip' style
is enough these days...

******
10 September 2002
2

Well, what's the big deal? Dragon Ball-like special effects? The
emancipation of selfishness as the greatest "virtue"? C´mon, you don't learn
anything from this movie. It's bubble gum for the eyes: useless. The only
interesting idea is that about that reality is not what we think. Well, I
liked the quid and spider-like robots. But, the story? Bah: nobody helps
nobody in this movie (above all, that super-egocentric "Neo" character).
And, oh, yes, it's TOO violent, much, much more than what it needed (bullet
showers and destroyed buildings were what this pacific world was needing,
isn't it?). If you think you are the center of the world, you will love The
Matrix. I didn't.If you want a really good sci-fi movie, go for 12 Monkeys.2/10

******
11 May 2001
3

Even as far as Hollywood films go, this plot is for the birds. Yeah yeah, I
know.. it's Sci-Fi, but it still amazes me the way some people drool and
applaud rancid pablum like this. All they need is some over-rated FX, one
over-rated actor, and the dumbest storyline of all time, and you have people
lining up at the door, barking for more. There is good Sci-Fi, and there is
bad Sci-Fi. This film definitely falls into the latter. For all of you
yahoo's eagerly awaiting the sequel, try something new, read a book. (If you
can read)

******
7 July 2000
2

First things first: I didn't like this movie. I didn't enjoy this movie.
They wasted money to bring you great special effects and put them in with a
bad plot and bad movie. Special Effects were good, I'll give it that. But
what was the point? Where was the plot? And another thing, I don't like
Keanau Reeves. He cannot act...at all. And how did Laurence Fishborne end up
in a bad movie. He's a great actor. This was just a waste of his talent. So
call me mean-spirited, but PLEASE don't call me when the next two Martix's
come out. 

******
1 February 2000
10

This movie appealed to me on many levels. Obviously the special effects were
fantastic, but that isn't what makes the movie great. It has a very involved
story. I was surprised to hear that a lot of people were bad mouthing the
story line, but I then found out that they didn't get the movie. When I
explained the events to some of my friends they changed their opinion and
started liking the movie. The movie also had some of the best dialogue. It
was all very crisp and sharp which helps to make the movie more engaging.
And I liked all of the actors in the film. Especially Laurence Fishburne, he
was magnificant as Morpheus. I think that he should have been nominated for
an oscar along with the whole movie.

******
26 December 1999
2

I hate to be completely negative about a film, but this was truly, truly,
truly awful.Remember how Bound looked like the Coen Brothers had cross-bred with David
Lynch and some how lost their film making talent on the way? Well, this is
like James Cameron, David Fincher and John Woo mixed in a blender with The
Terminator, an old Doctor Who story about people on trial in a computer
generated world (which was called The Matrix) and some really bad
ideas.Where can we start? The plot is a mess, the acting is terrible all round,
the directing is plagiarized beyond belief, it lacks any new ideas, the
atmosphere is about as enjoyable as the pause following a doctor telling a
patient they've got a terminal disease and - the clincher, because you can
get away with most of those things - it is truly boring. At no point did I
actually believe Keanu Reeves was in any real danger.As for Keanu Reeves new found (according to some) 'acting' skill, the only
reason he looks good is because the rest of the cast is so bad you could
make coffee tables out of them.This is quick fix blasting action for the idiot generation. To say that
the
two people next to me fell asleep about half way through says it all. I
just
wish I could have joined them, and missed out on the terrible, macho
ending.

******
14 October 1999
2

Anyone over 15 (either chronologically or mentally) should find this film a
grave disappointment.  Endless chase scenes, destruction, murder, and
mayhem.  The plot makes no sense at all.  The actors are wholly wooden.
Two
stars--for the special effects people.

******
9 June 1999
2

The only thing that attracted me were the fighting scenes and the special
effects, the rest all sucked.  Horrible acting by Keanu Reeves, so so by
the
others.  The most cheesy cliche dialogue I have seen in a long time.  I
just
couldn't stop laughing, when lines like: "Never send a human to do a
machine's job" appeared on the screen.  And the plot, although it looks
deep, I just couldn't relate with it.

******
13 May 1999
2

That such a derivative and badly-done movie is the most popular film in
the
United States at the moment is saddening. The inevitable CGI FX (for what
it's worth, better than any seen before) coupled with awful acting on
Reeves' part and a plot structure that allows for about an hour and a half
of exposition all add up to... one over-hyped blockbuster. And what's that
romantic interest all about? Accck! I'm voting 1 on this one out of spite.
Please have mercy, Keanu! The most edifying thing about
The Matrix is the main characters' clothing.

******
10 May 1999
2

"whoa", as Keanu would say. However, the amazing special effects could not
make up for the predictable, slow moving plot and confusing story line. I
also found the characters to be quite annoying, with their dorky
sunglasses,
silly lines and overdone costumes. And if they know how to program
advanced
artificial intelligence, why can't they figure out how to "brighten up"
their dark, sombre atmosphere? If you're really into fx, go see it on the
big screen. If not, wait for the video.

******
5 May 1999
2

Plotless,
lets-see-how-many-weapons-transports-characters-we-can-make-look-like-insect
s
limit to creativity. About 1.5 hours too long. Clever, intriguing dialogue
something like:He: I must bring back Morpheus
She: No. You can't go.
He: I'm going.
She: OK. I'm coming with you.
He: No you're not.
She: Yes I am.
He. OK. Let's go. We need lots of guns.Has everyone seen Life is Beautiful, The Imposters, Last Night, Night on
Earth?

******
23 October 2006
2
The Matrix is terrible. A complete abomination. And the sequels are
even worse. The only worse movie series is The Planet of the Apes. Your
money would be much better spent buying a homeless person lunch.Granted it seems mildly clever at first, but it is actually an
underdeveloped story with a completely unsatisfactory resolution. Any
comparison to Star Wars or the Lord of the Rings trilogy would an
insult the clear superiority of Lucas or Jackson as both film makers
and story tellers. I hope the people that profited so greatly from this film can find a
way to do something with that money that is socially responsible.
Having said all of that, acting was actually OK, though. And the only part of the story that makes the least bit of sense is
that technology and artificial "intelligence" can be dangerous instead
of helpful if abused.

******
20 May 2003
1

Stop freaking me with the Matrix : the actors are bad, the plot is
outdated
and seen and seen again and the action, well, it's been done before in
any
HK movie... Tell me about bullet time and other things : well, makes me
wanna barf. Useless and not that well done.

******
21 December 2002
2

Keanu Reeves.  What the hell are you doing, continuing to act.  GO AWAY, YOU
HAVE NO TALENT.  The Matrix has got to be one of the worst film of today. 
Why do we need all these special effects, it's just not needed.  If somebody
gets shot at, you don't need to see anything in slow motion.  Or if they are
about to jump across a large gap, do i need the action to stop just so i can
study their long jump technique, i don't think so.  Answering the phone to
transport themselves to another place.  OH PLEASE.  I know i am in the
minority but one day this film WILL be forgoten about because basically it's
toss.  Keanu - retire now and go and haunt someone else for a change.


******
6 May 2002
2

A few weeks ago I took my Matrix DVD out of my collection and, because I was
bored, decided to ring up my mate and tell him that either he takes it off
me or I burn it. I had the matches ready and everything, and would have
conducted a fascinating experiment into the effect of touching a DVD with a
naked flame had he not agreed to let me give it to him. I kid you not.This film is the worst waste of twenty quid I have ever bought. The
psuedo-intelectual claptrap ("Hey, what if the world isn't real after
all"???? Yawn, like I didn't already think of that when I was about five
years old) is used to cover the fact that the main characters and large
chunks of the plot were obviously, ahem, "influenced by" William Gibson's
classic pulp-sci-fi tale 'Neuromancer', ie. they are largely identical
(including the role of each character within the narrative) but have had
their names or skin colour changed. The visuals are quite pretty but again are totally lacking in innovation
except for the 'Bullet Time' gimmick, which is fun to watch but not as
impressive as had been made out. At least it wasn't over-used. Then we move
onto the acting: Fishburne is fine, as is Moss, but Keanu drags the film
into new depths of rubbishness with his trademark lack of emotion or even
the slightest indication of sentience, ruining some lines that should sound
great. Finally, the action sequences are well-choreographed but somehow seem
flat, as if the pacing is a little off.I won't be going to see the sequels.

******
11 March 2002
1

Of all the feelings that went through me as I watched the Matrix, the
overwhelming emotion was disgust. Can anyone pick a contemporary movie with
so many crude references to christianity? Morpheus as John the baptist;
Trinity as an interesting (though the name "Trinity" should have been a
tip-off for even the most doltish viewer) Mary Magdala; Keanu Reeves as
(gasp!) Christ. Not only is the acting putrid but the film relies mostly on
special effects and this ridiculous plotline. If the viewer wants to see
action, rent an old John Woo movie made in Hong Kong (The Killer and Hard
Boiled spring to mind). If you want a movie with cool effects, catch The
Bride had White Hair. Skip this drivel unless you have had a lobotomy
recently. If that were the case, I scarcely believe you would be reading
this.

******
28 August 2006
1
I have sat through the Matrix and it's sequels several times, and I
still don't see what people think is so great about these
movies..especially when I hear or read people talking about the
'philosopy' (of these movies). The only underlying 'philosophy' or 'message' that seems to exist in
these movies is that any type of conflict can only be ultimately
resolved through violence - Neo always ends up in one of his bizarro
kung fu fight with Smith, suggesting that good and evil are universal
constants and that they will only ultimately conflict. It's a premise
that only exists in storytelling, and it's a pretty timeworn metaphor.
The Matrix is just professional wrestling in high gloss. The
'philosophy' is just psycho-babble gobbldegook meant to confuse, and (I
guess) when certain members of the audience are confused, they seem to
think they must be in the presence of something beyond their ability to
comprehend, and so it must be 'philosophy'. and therefore
'profound'...kind of like aboriginal tribesmen seeing an airplane and
thinking it's amazing, something more than they can comprehend. They
only lack the education....

******
28 October 2005
1
I mean really, how can this drivel make it into the all time greatest
top-40. I baffles me, stupefies me, that so many people really like
this movie. Keanus acting was so terrible I felt like my mind was going
to explode, while all the other actors moved about in such a
pretentious solemn stupor that I just couldn't care for the characters
they were supposed to represent. Excessive use of sunglasses,
trench-coats and "revolutionary" stop motion action sequences just
added to the pointlessness of the film. When the plot got so confused
and muddled two thirds of the way through, the only solution is to
bring out the big guns and have a mass gory bloody shoot-out, which
completely offsets the amateurish philosophical babble at the start.Like many others on this board that gave it a one, I tried to see the
film a few more times to "get it" or whatever. No, sorry. This film
stinks. There are so many better "alternate universe" films out there.

******
19 August 2000
1

Another movie that needs special effects every 10 seconds.  Keanu (I can't
act) Reeves plays some guy with a automatic weapon who is chased by the bad
guys.  I was so bored...the utter audicity of this film.   Who has a
shootout with 15 other guys with automatic weapons and not only doesn't get
scratched, but kills ALL the other guys.  No plot that hasn't been seen in
Terminator or Tron.  The other bad news is there are more of these 'teeny
fantasy sfx' films coming and they'll all be as bad as this
one.

******
22 June 2000
1

I see posters. TV commercials. Comments. Magazines.
Newspapers. Rankings. Awards. Lots of Wow! expressions.
Then...I rent the movie (I thank God I've never seen it on theaters) and I
say...'Well, it seems that this is THE MOVIE'. Then I press the play
button.
And get sleep.
Bored, slow, extremely bad acted, unbelievable.
And incredible bad movie.
Maybe a nice story...If somebody tells it good.
Seeya, Matrix.
I give a '1'. And I think I'm generous.
Bye
Scar

******
28 May 2000
1

This really bothers me that people actually consider this movie one of the
top 50 of all time???   Really, people, think about the plot of this movie
and the acting...I am the first to acknowledge that the special effects are
unlike no other...but how beyond stupid can a plot be?  I ask that if
everyone can really look at what this movie is, and they still enjoy it,
more power to you.  I do think that once you look at this movie beyond the
special effects, you'll be extremely embarrassed that you at one point said
you "liked" this movie.

******
3 July 1999
1

OK, here's my basic viewpoint on the wonderful piece of celluloid known as
'The Matrix,' seeing as how it was full of plot holes, and the only things
good about it were Laurence Fishburne and the effects.In all honesty, I hated every single frickin' minute of this flick. It was
boring, unimaginative, and really quite contrite. The scripting was
terrible, the acting horrible, and for Gods sake, the movie wasn't even a
movie, it was a playhouse for new visual effect techniques. Show me one
part
of this movie that you feel is good, and I'll show you a person who's
afraid
to make up their own mind on anything good in movies.While The Matrix was busy making millions of dollars, people skipped out of
movies with a SCRIPT and ACTORS such as 'Waking Ned Devine,' an incredibly
character driven movie, with real actors, not Bill and Ted rejects. (Don't
get me wrong, Laurence Fishburn wasn't in Bill and Ted, and I did like the
B&T movies, I just didn't like TED!) This movie was full of eye
candy...it's
a disappointment that movie goers now a days will shell out $7.50 for a
movie full of things you can see on a Playstation...but you don't catch
people sitting around the house and paying money to watch some guy play
Final Fantasy.Now go watch a real movie, like 'Brazil.'

******
5 May 1999
1

Can't believe this film has so many people so enthused. Most of it is dumb
boring cliche-ridden dialogue. I've seen tons of b-flicks on 2 AM cable
that
had more life than this thing. The "sci-fi" effects are 10th rate
derivative
of Alien & all its spawns down through even the stupid remake of Lost in
Space. Where the hell is all the groovy gothic architecture I read about?
The climax is bad John Woo knock-off. So what's it all mean? That today's
moviegoers love nothing more that bad remakes of yesterdays movies? Guess
so. 

******
26 June 2003
1

This may not be the worst movie of all time - but it does not belong
anywhere near the TOP-100 list.  People that think highly of this movie
are
too eager to give the special effects (albeit original) way too much
credit
towards the actual worth of the movie.
If it really was the "story" of the movie that attracted the crowds to the
original, the 2nd movie would have done much better.  But since the
effects
are no longer "special" to a lot folks, it appears a lot of people are
saying "NO THANKS" to seeing the sequel.  Which backs up my feelings on
the
first movie.  The story/acting was ok - but didn't WOW me in the least.
Reeves is not a great actor - regardless of how much you adore him.

******
21 May 2003
1

the movie's plot, storyline among most other things are some of the worst
I've seen in a movie in a long time.
I wouldn't pay 10 cents to see it again.
the only thing about it that was remotely ok was a few action sequences.
Even now those sequences have been surpassed by many other movies.  It
certainly wasn't a standard precedent for movies of that nature and the
way
they were produced or filmed.

******
18 October 2001
1

Yeah, the effects were good.  But the story was just your basic,
run-of-the-mill futuristic action script.  The character development is
virtually non-existant, the acting is weak, and their are non plot twists
that cannot be spotted a mile ahead.  The only reason this film is praised
so much is because of the martial arts sequences and the effects i.e. the
famous slow-motion bullet shots.  But the fact remains that this is a poor
effort.  There is no outstanding reason to see this movie; there is no great
acting.  The story is intriguing to sci-fi fans at first, but later on boils
down to cliches and shootouts.  The ending is a cop-out just so more sequels
can be milked out.  If you want to see a great futuristic sci-fi film, see The 13th Floor.  You
will notice the plot is very similar to that of The Matrix, except it is
much more inventful about it, much better executed, and the ending will
leave you thinking for months afterwards.  The ending in the Matrix,
however, will leave you thinking "What was so great about that?"  The
answer, simply and disapointingly, is nothing.

******
24 June 2001
1

I cant believe they're making two sequels to this one, why couldnt they just
stop with one?? this one had me scratching my head trying to make some sense
out of it.. what was Keanu thinking when he signed up for this one?? the
only good things about this movie were the special effects and that didnt
happen til around the end of the movie.. i was so lost .. i couldnt figure
it out at all ... Keanu was the reason i rented this movie, but even today i
still cant understand this movie.. it was way too weird for my liking and i
cant see what the big fuss is about this picture ... save your money for
something better ..

******
13 October 2000
1
... but it's in my top ten list.This movie is evidence, at least to me, that good special effects do not a
movie make. Even some of the scenes were not that special. The "Kung-Fu"
scenes spring instantly to mind. Especially when compared to the works of
Bruce Lee and his ilk. I really wish Hollywood would stop using special
effects as a crutch for a weak movie... reference also "Mission to Mars"
or
"Hollow Man."As for some of you, just remember: IT'S ONLY A MOVIE. Some people have
really latched onto the idea that the plot of this movie has some basis in
reality. GROW UP. IT'S A MOVIE, and not a terribly good
one.

******
30 August 2000
1

Is it just me, or have the movies gotten worse and worse lately?  This is
perhaps Keanu Reeves worst performance to date in a film. (And considering
the fact that he was also in such films as Point Break, and the "Bill &
Ted"
movies, that's saying a lot!)  The plot was ridiculous.  And don't try to
give me the line "oh well, you just didn't get it!"  I got it.  A two year
old could follow that plot.  That doesn't make it good.  Case in point,
near
the end of the film, Neo is dead.  But wait!!!!  Trinity then bends over
Neo's corpse and tells him that he has to survive because a fortune teller
has deemed her to be the one who would fall in love with The Chosen One.
Then to make things worse, he actually does come back to life.  What a
crock
of...  I think you get the point.  If you really want to see a great movie
about a man who has to fight against an unbeatable enemy, watch Dark City!
I give this movie a 1 only because it has amazing special effects, (both
visual effects and sound effects) otherwise the movie would have gotten a
negative 5!

******
26 March 2006
10
"The Matrix" has redefined the science-fiction genre. Previous to this
movie, most science-fiction movies consisted out of scene's in space
with spacecrafts, aliens, all set in a futuristic world. Most movies
that tried to be different from this, mostly failed. "The Matrix" does
however does not fail and it redefined the science-fiction genre and
has taken it to a whole different and more seriously taken level of
movie-making. The movie has inspired many different movies ever since
and showed that science-fiction and action elements are a great and
spectacular combination. From that perspective "The Matrix" is one of
the most important movies for film-making, from the '90's.This is a superb piece of movie-making. The Wachowski 'brothers' were
obviously inspired by the Japanese anime style and they transform that
style spectacularly into a life-action movie. Because of the style and
flair of the movie, it makes the action look spectacular and even also
look as something totally new. The fantastic bullet-time effects were
something unseen before and are already alone reason enough why this
movie is already almost a classic and certainly unforgettable movie.
The style and new effects used in the movie make this movie to be also
a refreshing one. It's an extremely original movie, both story-wise and
technique-wise.Especially the action is what truly makes this movie a success. The
fight and action sequences are beautifully choreographed. It also all
is beautifully shot by cinematographer Bill Pope, who uses some
fantastic lighting and camera-angles at times. The musical score from
Don Davis is also quite good. Also the costumes and settings most
certainly do not disappoint. The special effects are spectacular and
also something totally new at times.The cast is not the strongest element of the movie. Keanu Reeves is
fairly good as the main character but he lacks some charisma at times.
Some goes for Carrie-Anne Moss to be honest. Actors who do not
disappoint are Laurence Fishburne, Joe Pantoliano and the fantastic
Hugo Weaving in his real big breakthrough role. He is an excellent
'villain' because of his look and way of acting.But what really makes and shapes the movie is its story. Yes, it's
complex and believe, not everything makes sense or is explained in a
satisfying way but it at least is something totally original and
imaginative. The story really shapes the movie and its style and make
the action and science-fiction elements of the movie work fantastically
together.The movie is great non-stop spectacular action entertaining that
doesn't even get slow or boring even when nothing is really happening.
This is mainly due to the imaginative powerful story of the movie. If
you don't understand and/or get the story the first time, just watch it
a second or third time. The movie is worth it. The movie uses multiple
layers, symbolism and elements from religions and other styles of
movie-making. It makes you discover more new things, every time you
watch the movie. One of the most original and influential movies from
the '90's and therefor also an absolute must-see!10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/

******
28 September 2007
7
No misunderstanding in Action, Look and Special-effects "Matrix" is a
Milestone, but that's all! The whole life-is-a-computer-simulation-thing is really old, oldest I
know is a short-story from the 60s so this Movie is not as
revolutionary as the fans think. Visual masterpiece SciFi-Action which could have gotten a better rating
if it had not any uninspired Sequels ("Matrix 2" - nothing to remember
; "Matrix 3" better to forget) and would not try to be more, but it
does and the problem - there is nothing more :/So 7/10 for a good entertaining movie which tries to be sophisticated.

******
13 May 2007
9
The Motion Picture "The Matrix" perhaps should be spelled matrice
because that is what this film is using to tell the story of one Thomas
Anderson(played by Keanu Reeves) who works for a top software computing
company.It seems early into "The Matrix" Thomas Anderson has two
lives,one as already stated with the added comment that he helps his
land lady take out the garbage and the other life is involved with
computing and the internet whereby Thomas Anderson goes by the hacker
alias "Neo"and is guilty of committing about as many crimes as there
are on computing and the internet.The definition of a Matrix is a
switch which is a device "that allows multiple channels connected via
serial interfaces to connect under operator control to designated
remote or local analog circuits."It is while at his computer keyboard
on a given evening that Neo is contacted directly by way of his own
personal computer.How this is in fact accomplished is never clear
however it is made even more implausible as Neo is not even on the
computing network legally as his hacking proclivities would stand more
a chance of being discovered.Yet that is exactly what occurs though
that discovery is arranged by a notorious individual in Morpheus(played
by Laurence Fishburne) with stalwart and even inspirational keyboardest
in Trinity.Trinity wishes to meet with Neo and it is Trinity who has
the capacity real or otherwise to write to the construct with an
ability to actually break into a virtually invisible and undetectable
space and land in Neo's lap.This occurs at a point in time when a knock
occurs at his apartment door with a deal about to go down which though
innocuous is not about drugs per se though drugs do enter into the
general conversation(it is the only way to fly) it is about a specially
written or/either stolen piece of computer data(on disk)and is
purchased for some $2,000.00.Neo it would seem is living up to his name
and indeed even by todays standards that is a talent only a few perhaps
have the ability to achieve.Neo is a hacker who when a moment ago prior
to the arrival of the these persons he was informed by way of his
computer to follow the White Rabbit.A female who is partnered with the
purchaser of the computer disk shows her shoulder to Neo to only expose
a tattoo of a white rabbit and due to this coincidence he decides to go
out though he has work the following morning.He somehow meets Trinity
and it is here that it is discovered that Trinity is a girl and indeed
Trinity is played by Carrie-Ann Moss.She warns him that they are
looking for you and Neo asks who is.The film provides a cardboard
characteristic perhaps more the equal to an animated construct as an
air of a constructed set is bally-hooed with most of the picture being
given imaginative as well as staid staging that provide for an effect
as a construct which may actually be required as part of the purport of
this film.The message however is that Thomas Anderson is about to jump
ship permanently and bare the hacker alias Neo for the rest of time.The
film leaves no doubt as to how all of this is to transpire with the
matrix as well as telecommunications being made to be the transporter
of the very physical presence that the film is named after.The real
problem that this film will not shy away from,is that there is in the
construct a reported illusion to an authority that is not real but
artificial and indeed the film proceeds to be transported through
telephone lines while evolving to a crusade to free themselves from the
arrival of an artificially constructed cyborg entity,"Agents".The
agents are in fact hardwired to the construct and represent the
gatekeeper ideology.They guard all the gates.It is not new
territory,this territory as to telecommunications and though not new it
is as well not new to be concerned with an artificial intelligence as
the evolution of the computer has been for many years concerned with
these very areas.The arrival though as to the claim of actual
Agents(lead Agent played by Hugo Weaving)whereby they materialize as if
residing or embedded in a matrix only environment for purposes of
enforcement using the bodies of the citizenry is to underscore
something unusual.The film provides for something as to the truth and
the admission that there exists the real presence of an overseer whose
authority is unmitigated by circumstance and whose power will not
relent.We are in effect under the yoke of a tyrant and the
communications of the 20th century has given witness to this rise of a
foreign power as well as an artificial intelligence.They are in fact
the same thing and we don't have to wait one hundred years as it is
here now and has been here for at least some 50 to perhaps 75 years.It
is well to understand that behavior has mass market appeal with films
providing a virtual backyard to convey as films such as these do.The
mass market appeal is likened to a cash register for what is more
powerful than to control the wealth of the world,it would be to have
power over it.The very clear and precise arguments as to abuse with
power over others continually creeps into the picture time and time
again allowing for an inability to get out from under the treachery of
an overseer.It is this challenge that eventually materializes into the
films most engaging scenes as Morpheus,Neo,Trinity all weigh in against
the construct with real world rock-em-sock-em fight scenes.Though this
is but something of an abbreviation,the climax as to the Matrix is
worthy of mention as a kiss is well earned and if true love ever had a
chance it won this one hands down.I've watched this more than once to
learn as much about the construct as to learn about the film.

******
13 January 2001
2

Visually, the Matrix was a stunning movie, and the directors and crew
deserve credit for that. The only problem is that I fail to see anything
profound and deep in the movie. The plot has nothing new to it; virtual
reality has been a staple of science fiction ever since the great William
Gibson, not to mention Star Trek, and the same goes for artificial
intelligences. If some viewers were unfamiliar with these basic Cyberpunk
/
sci-fi elements and plots, I am glad they were enlightened, but most of us
were not given anything new to think about.The acting, as far as it merits the verb "acting", was below par. I'm
struck
by the numerous IMDB users praising the actors; are you seeing something
that isn't there? If you look carefully, Lawrence Fishburne is reciting a
very cliché fairytale to Neo that he doesn't even seem to believe himself.
Carrie Ann Moss and Keanu Reeves, as always, hardly move a facial muscle.
Emotion is conspicuosly absent.It was a visually beautiful movie, but that was it. The Matrix is not
revolutionary, it is evolutionary. And in view of the plot, it does not
deserve to be rated sci-fi; rather action with a small icing of science
fiction. Nothing new here.P.S. As a martial artist, I was rather less than delighted by martial arts
scenes created by computer animation. If the actors can't hack it, don't
try
to make a kung fu movie. Real martial arts are challenging and fun; in my
opinion, it would also be far more convincing to have leaping kicks and
other stupendous maneuvers actually carried out on a stage, not on a
computer.

******
28 August 2006
2
i only give this film two stars because Keanu Reeves was once a good
actor with Speed and the Bill and Ted movies to his credit. I will say
that Matrix: Reloaded is a far more stunning and brilliant film than
this could ever hope to be. I feel sorry for anyone who would call this
the best movie ever or say that it's stupid CGI effects are the best in
the world because you know what, CGI is not the best use for special
effects. I don't see how anyone could think so. When you see it, it
never blends in and is always annoyingly showing and out of place. If
you look at older films you can see that love was put into prosthetic
pieces and mate paintings which will always generate more awe than CGI
can muster. To date there has only been one movie to properly use CGI
and it was Jurrassic Park and the only reason that worked was because
it was one of the first times it had ever been scene, especially in the
detail that that film showed. So get over your selves Matrix geeks this
sucks and should be avoided.

******
27 January 2006
2
If you want a movie that showcases special effects over substance, this
is a movie to watch. Of course, some of the innovative special effects
of the time have since been over-used in just about every movie that
followed this one. Otherwise, the characters and story-line are utterly
uninspired and unoriginal. Repeated viewings have been rather painful
Keanu Reeves is within his element by playing the utterly clueless
protagonist (see Bill & Ted). People have often praised the story for
raising such existential questions, but I feel the same question was
approached and done much more effectively in movies such as The City of
Lost Children and Dark City. The Matrix is just simply an over-rated
and bloated piece of crap.

******
4 November 2000
2

I actually enjoyed this film the first time I saw it, but then I saw it a
second time after listening to all the comments about how brilliant this
film must be and how we must all worship it. I've never walked out on a film
before, and that even includes Battlefield Earth and Wing Commander, but I
walked out in the middle of trying to watch this one again. I've never seen
a film that people try so hard to make out to be so much more than it really
is. The worst part is the obssessive cult that has formed up around the
film, telling us how great and visionary the directors are and how we should
all worship them and blah blah blah...Well gang, like the Region Coding Enhancement scheme, time and people's
patience is going to catch up with this dreary film, and the results are
going to leave the makers very red-faced. Just about every concept in this
film is stolen, poorly executed, or both. I still laugh my guts out when
Morpheus tries to tell us how human bodies produce so much energy when they
consume at least that much in a day. Any nutritionist worth their salt could
tell you that. The division of a digital future between evil robots and
kind-hearted human beings was also done far better in Tron. And the sloppy
use of the Christ Theme as a plot device doesn't even bear thinking about.
When I first saw the film, I had never laughed so hard in my life. When I
saw it on DVD, I'd never felt so insulted. Never have I seen a production
crew with such over-inflated ideas about their achievements.The characters are just plain boring, too. Keanu Reeves has all the acting
ability of a stuffed toy, and yet he is the most interesting thing in the
film. That's a worrying sign. Morpheus was all poses and zero credibility,
Agent Smith was just an insult, and Trinity had to be one of the least
watchable romantic interests since Teri Hatcher's awful performance in
Tomorrow Never Dies. And was this film trying hard for some kind of record
in speaking ****? Well, guess what? Their efforts succeeded big-time. Every
man and his dog seems to be going on about how much better this film was
than the last episode of Star Wars, but it is really more on a level with
Star Trek.Frankly, if this is the future of science fiction films, then I will happily
stick with my copy of Plan 9 From Outer Space. At least Ed Wood had sincere
intentions of a variety other than ripping off an army of suckers when he
made that piece of ****! Zero stars. And don't blame anyone other than
yourselves, Matrix fans, because this film is now the celluoid answer to MTV
through your efforts.

******
9 September 2015
10
It had Alice, it had Nietzsche, it had Buddha, it had anime, it had
Frank Miller,it had Christ, it was themes and levels, it was duality,
modality, reality, dreams, will, destiny, freedom, slavery of the mind;
of the body,identity, sexuality, viruses, Love, the construct, who
lives ? who dies ? it was philosophy, mythology, technology ,truth, it
was Trinity, it was bullet time, it was perfection... and so on" This
film is just superb. The actions scenes, the cinematography, the music,
the actors, the special effects. The film which transformed,
revolutionized Cinema. A must watch film. The Matrix synthesized to me
everything about life; about "my "life";made me question every moment
of my life; of this entire planet. Not only did it philosophically
influence me, it also made me interested in cinematography, in
particular "Bullet time" how it was constructed and made...if you
analyze it deep down you do realize why it was specifically made for
"The Matrix" and the action scenes are breathtaking. Never have I seen
anything like it; even to this day.
Philosophy+Anime+Action+Sci-Fi+Simulacra&
Simulation+Morpheous+Neo+Agent Smith...gives your the ultimate film.
Pay careful attention to Hugo Weaving's performance as Agent Smith. He
should have won an Oscar for best supporting actor.

******
24 April 1999
2

Potential high school assassins would find this pretentiously awful film
appropriately dour, dream-like, violent, validating of paranoia,
techno-babbly, and pseudo-scientifically senseless.  Others with a broader
and deeper history of films behind them should be pleased to miss "The
Matrix" and never look back.  Its brother team of directors deserve no
reward for any technical gimmickry that might momentarily wow an asocial
ticket-buyer, because their ignorance (read it "sense of what was hot last
week") and disdain for the human component--for people as the best or worst
of us really talk and think (or view and listen) damages even actors who
know better, such as Lawrence Fishburn.  His appearance, unlucky for him,
signals the utter retreat of the film into a doleful pattern of "Captain
Video" dialogue--yes, accidental historical accuracy in self-conscious,
robotic enunciation of unintentionally scoff-inspiring paradoxical
phrases--punctuated, de rigeur, by spasms of billowing orange explosion (for
the eye) and nattering automatic weapons fire (for the ear). 


******
21 October 2005
8
When "The Matrix" first came out, it looked like another cheap action
flick, but turned out to be quite good. The premise suggests that
everything that we see in life is false, and that we're all prisoners
of something called the Matrix. So, software designer Thomas "Neo"
Anderson (Keanu Reeves) is hired by rebel Dr. Morpheus (Laurence
Fishburne) to break away from society. Lots of impressive things ensue."The Matrix" was overall a good movie, but would have been better
without all the violence. Still, the movie's a classic, with great
support from Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, and Joe Pantoliano. Avoid
the ridiculous sequels.

******
13 November 2005
1
It is irritating to myself and anyone who knows small arms weapons that
Hollywood consistently adds the sound of clicking or metal to metal
contact as the actor/actress raises the weapon to aim and/or discharge
it. Most of the weapons that this sound is associated with only make
this sound when 'charged' or cocked. This action is accomplished long
before raising the weapon for firing and most always cannot be executed
as the weapon is raised and certainly not one handed.In The Matrix it is evident almost every time a weapon is raised by
Neo, Trinity or any other character. Similarly Reloaded and Revolutions contain the same effect.Yes, it is dramatic however unrealistic.How gullible does Hollywood think we are ???

******
26 January 2008
1
Extremely silly nonsense about a future where machines have taken over
the world and life on earth is a virtual reality controlled by computer
programs in some alternate universe. This is one of the worst movies
from a major studio, featuring a convoluted and boring plot that's all
over the place and goes on way too long. The slow-motion fight scenes
are laughably bad. Reeves looks lost throughout the movie. Fishburne
spews clichés as some sort of a zen master. The Wachowski Brothers, who
showed so much promise with "Bound," their first feature, not only
wrote the terrible script but also dreamed up the lame special effects.
This is an utter waste of time.

******
28 April 1999
1

This is probably the most disappointed I've been about a movie in some
time.
I don't know what I actually expected, but I was surprised by what I saw.
To be perfectly honest, the effects didn't save the movie.  They weren't
even as good as I had expected.  Maybe I'm being picky, but eye candy
isn't
enough when it's unsweetened and bitter tasting.


******
23 April 1999
1

We read all the raves and the box office records and since we love sci-fi we
went to see the Matrix. The first half of the movie was awful and we found
absolutely no reason for it being made except for special effects. The story
was somewhere between inane and non-existent. The second half was exciting
and continued the non-existent story line. I guess there was a story of
sorts but it was stupid. Probably the WORST movie we've seen in many, many
years. 

******
21 February 2002
1

The Matrix is undoubtedly one of the most influenced sci-fi/action films in
history.  There's the Western-style quickdraw fight, Oriental Shaolin
boxing
Bruce Lee made famous, and definite influences of Anime, John Woo, and
other
big action names and brands. This benefits the intriguing, complicated, and
somewhat confusing plot. In overall, 10/10. 

******
29 October 2001
1

Something sad happened with this film. The Hollywood Academy give it some
Oscar (special effects, I think). So young people newcomer to cinema world
thought it must be a good picture. They did not know that not all the
winning Oscar movies deserve it. It is a deceitful, spurious and incredibly
pretentious film. Because one thing is Cinema and another thing are
computers. If you want to said something in cinema' way you must use
cinematography ways. Cinematography language has got his own implements. It
is a very old discovery (more than 100 years old) and it was marching on and
growing up with hard work, effort, wisdom and -many times- talent. Never
with computers. The film responsible commit in my opinion a unforgivable
lack os respect. It seen they does not know authors like Griffith, Chaplin,
Stroheim, Sternberg, Welles, Dreyer, Ford, Hawks, Walsh, Curtiz, Lang, Reed,
Renoir, Buñuel, Kurosawa, Wilder... All of them (and some more) made films
with his own effort. Not with computers. That is why the film is not sci-fi
nor comic nor martial arts catalogue. Let me said you this movie is a awful
mixture of all that and of course nothing of value. Zero.


******
2 May 1999
1

The Matrix is a mess of a movie, and it is all the more disappointing
because it had some really good ideas.  I am a big fan of Bound, and of
the
directors' visual style.  Still, what was promised in the previews did not
actually occur until 30 minutes before the end of the film.The concept is intriguing, if not totally original.  Half way through the
film I kept saying to myself, "When this becomes clear, it will be really
neat."  Unfortunately, after it was over, I was still unclear about many
things.I know that a movie like this should be experienced, if not completely
understood, but the experience was dark and the style was too
late.Still, I loved the flo-mo effects, and the visual effects were TERRIFIC.
Not enough to carry a feature film, though.

******
4 November 2003
1

Now this is a stinkass movie. Probably the worst movie I've ever seen. I
watched it in the movie theatre and fell asleep three (!) times! It is so
incomprehensive, the story sucks, the characters are lousy, the actors
are
annoying and act poorly, yuck. I know a lot of people really like this
movie, but I know at least as many people that really hate this movie.I would recommend this movie if you're a scifi-guy (or gal). Otherwise,
don't bother!

******
15 April 2002
1

Somebody decided to combine the ideas behind Terminator (a computer gone out
of control that runs the world) and Tron (a computer world within another
world) and combine them into this overrated turkey that has plotholes big
enough to drive a truck through.  Keanu Reeves is possibly the worst actor
of all time.  The stupid faces he makes in the fight scenes are laughable
and he has the worst voice for delivering serious dialogue.  They even
managed to steal a scene from Walt Disney in this drivel when Neo is brought
back to life by a kiss.  Most fans of this movie say that those who disliked
it "didn't get it" and try to make themselves come across as more
intelligent by talking about the film's "deeper meaning".  Well, as someone
who also had to painfully analyze this stinker I can say that there is not
one original idea within the script.  While they're at it they should find a
good lawyer to defend themselves from Robert Heinlein's estate, who should
sue since they stole the entire parasite idea from Puppet Masters.  Keanu
Reeves should be shot on sight.

******
4 June 2000
1

Action movies are the neatest! And this one is probably the best of
all!
There was a lot of shooting and COOL camera stuff. The cool effects with
the
bullets were awesome, and the martial arts too. Hi-ya! And the sets were
neato too. I think I'm in the Matrix right now; the movie was that
convincing. I like that they didn't bother with character development at
all
because that would have wasted time. Some of my friends liked the
philosophical side to this movie. I didn't really care for that though.
They
kind of threw together some eastern philosophy with a whole lot of
Christian
imagery and wallah! I don't know though - it seems like that may have been
just a device to make the movie seem like more than it
is...
But how could they make this movie any more rad than it already is? What
with all the action and all, and the fast music which helped keep my
attention, and Keanu Reeves says "woh." That's a pretty good line because
it's how we all feel sometimes. And I guess, really, all that philosophy
stuff was pretty thought provoking...


******
16 May 2000
1

Why this is so popular absolutely baffles me. It only beat The Phantom
Menace for best special effects because of politics, to show that George
Lucas "supposedly" doesn't have so much clout. How anybody can get off on a
bunch of skinny dorks in S+M outfits beating each other up with trick
photography while techno music constantly plays in the background is beyond
me. This is the MTV generations' wet dream, that much is obvious. Comparing
it to Blade Runner is trying way too hard. And those of you trying to make
something religious out of it, this is all I have to say: get a life and get
educated. You just want to draw attention to yourselves. Here's hoping a
piano falls on the Wachowski Bros. before the next two films are
made.1/10. You got a problem with it, too damn bad.

******
23 January 2000
1

I had never given a movie a 1 at IMDb, until I saw The Matrix. What a
terribly bad movie, lousy actors and a hopeless story. I´d given this film
a
zero, if it was only possible.
A complete waste of money, and please Hollywood: Mr Reeves can´t
act!!!!

******
7 November 1999
1

My girl and I went to the theatre too see this , what we thougt, fantastic
movie.
What a waste of time!!!!
I should had stayed at home to watch some "Teletubbies"
instead.
My girl actually fell asleep during the movie, and I just hoped this
torture
would end as soon as possible.
OK, the special effects was rather good. I can give one star for the
effects.
This is just one of the films that nobody dares to say loud what piece of
shit it really is. Wake up people, there is so many much better films out
there. 

******
10 September 1999
1

To me this 'movie' seemed to be a mixture of scenes stolen from good or at
least better movies than this one. TERMINATOR 2, MEN IN BLACK, JOHNNY
MNEMONIC or THE X-FILES. After pulling out the best scenes from these four,
the Wachowskys added the atmosphere of DARK CITY, the music from BLADE and
the shooting-scenes from FACE/OFF and voila a new commercial plague pesters
the movieworld. Coronation of this Money-machine is the presentation of
commercials during the movie(Duracell, Nokia). Finally even a fairy tale is
being recycled in the dead-kiss-alive-sequence.I'm really, really looking forward to parts 2 and 3! 

******
15 August 1999
1

I've seen Matrix 3 months ago.While I saw it I wanna get out of the
theatre.It looks like Gung- Fu movie like HongKong movie.Keenu Reeves is
down and other charactors are absolutely inappropriated.Even though it 's
strange from other movies,the content in movie is boring.I felt that I was
stolen money from producer.

******
1 July 2004
1

I'm glad to see that someone rated this film as over-rated. I've seen
it several times as I like to make sure I'm not acting on first
impressions. I love Sci-fi films and films that offer an odd perspective on things
but this film, dear God it's so over-rated it's unreal. Most of the
people I know rave about it but I can't stand it.I've seen half of the sequel and it annoyed me so much I turned it off.Utter drivel. I'm sure that some of out there will think I'm insane but hey, who
cares.


******
6 March 2004
1

The Matrix is a horribly formulaic stew of standard pulp items (conspiracy
theories, bands of gallant rebels, babes in tight black leather) with a
light dusting of philosophical/religious concepts to make it all seem like
serious, meaningful stuff.  It is almost unnecessary to point out that
none
of the philosophical concepts plays any real role in the plot, which is
basically just a sequence of action scenes enhanced by computer graphics.
Its fans may talk about savior figures, but this is salvation lite, by
means
of gunfights and kung fu.  A better bet is Scary Movie: you'll see the
same
action and maybe even have a chuckle or two, which is more than can be
said
for The Matrix.

******
1 November 2002
1

The Matrix is one of the most overrated films that I can think of. The
film
does have good action and some of the most amazing special effects ever
put
on a film. But the film is also drawn out and confusing. Keanu Reeves is
the
only one who could play a chacrter as flat as Neo and the rest of the cast
expect for Laurence Fishburne and Joe Panotilano all give paper thin
performances. I give the action and effects a 10 the plot a 3 which equals
about 6.4.

******
27 February 2002
1

I could not stop laughing through the whole movie! Keanu Reeves gives his
best comedic performance since his appearance in the Paula Abdul video
"Rush, Rush."The only real problem with the movie is that it was not supposed to be
funny. I was not the only one who had this opinion. The person I was with
kept laughing at the same time I did. Keanu just doesn't do it for me.
Every
serious look that he tries still has an air of Bill S. Preston, Esq. (or
was
he Theodore "Ted" Logan?).I saw it when it first came out and hated it then. When my friends (mostly
college age) kept telling me that it was actually a very good movie, I
decided to give it another chance. Nope, I was right the first time. It is
much funnier than it is thought provoking. 

******
14 August 2000
1

This movie SUCKED. Okay I have to admit that the stunts and special effects
were cool. But the script was stupid and very predictable. And there was
typical 1-D shallow performance from Keanu Reeves. And what is up with it
being so high on the top 250 list. COME ON PEOPLE you leave Midnight Cowboy
and Gone With the Wind out of the top 100, but manage to put this Gap
commercial with special effects at #30.3out of 10 stars. 

******
22 June 2000
1

this is a pathetic piece of crap that has plagued the pop culture today.
I
don't know how.  Maybe people like bad acting, cheesy and crappy (also
boring) fight scenes, a plot that isn't carried through at all, horrible
scripting, and visual efffects that are far from original (check out blade
runner if you want good visual effects).  Personally, this film was just
ok, but the way it had been over-hyped and everyone saying its the
greatest
movie ever, it just made me give the film a 1 on a scale of 10.Keanu Reeves looks like a gimp wearing a cast around his neck, and still
can't spout a convincing word of dialouge, in this film.  Lawrence
Fishburn
gives the worst performance of his career, but he gets praised for it.
the
wakouski brothers claim themselves as original, but the film easily ripped
off John Woo films and Blade Runner.The worst thing about this is, is that everyone's IQ dropped ten points
after watching this load of garbage.  It plays you for an idiot.  It
actually tries to make you think that Keanu's not "the one" so it can try
to
keep some sort of suspense.  But when you start falling asleep through
scenes that could have been cut out, it throws in an action sequence not
needed just to keep you awake.  This film is bad and it's a shame that i'm
one of few who realises it.

******
2 May 1999
1

This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen.
>
Overall, the movie is a grotesque union of bad science fiction and bad
philosophy.  The writers decided to trot out that old "what if a mad
scientist had your brain in a jar..." nonsense except this time it's a mad
computer program and it's your whole body instead of just your brain.  The
director's view of Man's nature is one of a cross between a virus
infecting
the face of the Earth and a battery.The special effects are well done, but aren't good enough to carry the
rest
of the film.My recommendation is "Don't waste your money", I'm sure sorry I wasted
mine.


******
21 October 2005
1
Seriously, what the hell were they thinking when making this movie? And
what have my friends and most other people been thinking ever since?Several of my friends had told me to check out the Matrix because it is
"such an awesome movie". Well fair enough. I borrowed a tape from one
of my friends and started to watch it. It was pretty obvious to me that
there was no real plot in this movie. All it was was some idiot who
wanted to show off his new computer techniques and some mediocre acting
by some otherwise good actors.Ever since when having discussed the movie with my friends, they all
look at me as if I'm some kind of alien or something. They don't
understand that it's possible to have another opinion than theirs.
Seriously, I'd rather watch just about anything else than this any
time! I'd even go for some kind of stupid reality show (and you don't
imagine how much I loathe those!)This Hollywood bullshit deserves no more than 1!

******
6 June 2005
1
I 've just seen this film for the second time and I can't understand
why I have had such sadomasochistic behaviour . However, I think I've
understand the way the Machowsky Brothers, I mean Sisters, ... Mr and
Miss Machowsky write and produce that ... well, movie shall I say .
First, they imagined a pseudo-philosophical, pseudo-smart story with
some kind of "oh my god so that's how the world is ruled ! Its so
evident ! Well, it isn't" . Then , they had to write a script .Pretty
useless (XXX , Godfather III and others made lots of money without it)
but can help . it was easier :they just need a "Dictionnary of
Philosophy for fools" . Example:letter D : Descartes imagine that all
our lives could be an illusion created by a "bad genius" . Good !
letter N : Nietzche : Give up our desire is give up what made us human
, etc ... And finally they just need to direct actors . Well, they were
tired (can understand) so all the actors play consists in making
beautiful but useless moves. Now , I can't wait to see the sequels :
will they discover the letter O of the dictionary, will the moves be
more useless ?... So many questions I hope I 'll never have the answer
.

******
26 May 2003
1

I watched it once and for most of that I was thinking "when the hell is this
going to end". I get that it looks good - I am not denying that. But you can
only see the slow-motion camera spinny thingy once ore twice before you
start thinking "gee - could they not think of anything more interesting? Is
this all there is?". Over all it was way too long and not that interesting once you got over the
somewhat novel special effects. I really don't understand what the hype is
about and why everyone is telling me this is a good film.


******
25 November 2002
1

this movie is sorry it can't be written in words Keanu Reeves is a good
actor so why did he do this movie i watched it twice to see if i was missing
something overrated garbagethe plot about not being real is fun but the
movie is not to see how it done right watch THE 13TH FLOOR it is better and
makes more sense 1 OUT 10

******
27 June 2002
1

This is a terrible movie and I don't know how it ever got to be so
successful.  Its no wonder that all the computer nerds who sit around and
rank movies on IMDB would give the Matrix a high score, but if you
disregard
the hoopla, you will see that its nothing more than a bunch of noise
sometimes interrupted by bland lines from Keanu ("am I the One?").  I hate
this movie!!!

******
21 February 2002
1

I was first attracted to The Matrix by the slick trailers and TV spots.
However, I did not choose to see it in theaters until after hearing many
outstanding recommendations from friends.  I heard such comments as "man,
this movie will mess with your mind!", "I still don't understand it", "you
have to watch it a few times to get it", and many variations on "the
special
effects are awesome!".  I consider myself to be a fan of mind-benders, and
the occasional sweet special effect is always welcome in my book.  So I go
and see The Matrix.  In my first viewing, I literally fell asleep.  Now,
you
must be wondering how a person could possibly fall asleep watching such an
action packed film.  It was easy.  The action just doesn't do it for me.
You might also wonder why I would write a review for a movie I didn't see
in
it's entirety.  Actually, I rented it on DVD and sat through the whole
thing
months later.  I have many large complaints with The Matrix.  Let's start
with the whole "mind-bender" thing.  A psychological thriller this is not.
In fact, the fairly unoriginal concepts behind the story are presented in
the first 20 minutes or so, and then pretty much never mentioned again.
This movie will not keep anyone thinking unless they are incredibly stupid
and can't get past the first 20 minutes.  The special effects and the
visuals in general are indeed spectacular.  Good for them.  That doesn't do
a whole lot for me when there is no substance to back them up.  The Matrix,
as a whole, is an exercise in style over substance.  In all fairness, it is
very stylish.  Here's the main problem: the movie does about 20 minutes of
posing as a psychological thriller (as the trailers would have you
believe),
and then drops you off into the realm of sci-fi and video game violence.
The characters basically just start fighting, running, and shooting things.
It feels every bit as stupid and pointless as the next action movie.  The
only saving grace is the fact that it is much prettier than the next action
movie.  Once again, eye candy is the key to this movie.  Although it seems
to easy, I will rail on Keanu Reeves performance in The Matrix.  Well,
actually, the only thing that can be said about it is that it was weak
(like
all Keanu's performances, I suppose).  Fortunately, it won't distract most
viewers from all the cool explosions, gun shots, and camera
tricks.In summation, don't go in expecting an intelligent movie, you'll be
disappointed.  However, if you enjoy action, special effects, or sci-fi
stuff in general, then I find it hard not to recommend this movie to you.
I
guess when it comes down to it, special effects and action aren't my thing.
I need a little more substance.  

******
23 March 2001
1

I don't like to compare movies but this time it is necessary. Have you seen
DARK CITY? If yes then you must remember the concept of the movie. The
concept which the Matrix creators stole and transformed it into something...
with no sense (don't think that I've seen the movie only once). Secondly, I
keep reading comments about awesome visual effects. Visual effects is my job
and believe me... the Matrix effects are just impressive, that's all. From
the other side have you noticed any effects in Dark City? No? Probably
because the animation in this masterpiece of Alex Proyas is so realistic
that you never thought that the whole city is 3D. And making realistic
animations is more difficult than creating impressive but easy FX.As for the scenario of the Matrix (except that it is stolen) I believe that
it has so many gaps that not even Aristotle could understand the story.
Mentioning examples will take 2 sites so just agree or disagree with me. As
for the only advantage of the movie? it has the best digital editing I've
ever seen!!!Conclusion? Films our like foods. No-one has the same taste but as it
seemsmost of you like fast foods. For me is the worst film ever made. Is the
absolute ZERO!

******
23 February 2001
1

I really can't see what everyone thinks is so great about this movie, I
think it is wildly over-rated. The special effects? Fore example the
bullet
scene: like another user said before me, it's slow-motion, and it's been
around for a while! The bullets don't even look realistic at all. The
other
effects aren't that impressive especially not the robot guys that cut
themselves into the ship in the end, they look awkwardly badly done, you
can
easily tell that they are CG. That Episode I lost all its Oscars to this
movie is a big joke and it was sure as hell the last time I went up 3 in
the
morning (I live in Sweden, another time zone) just to see that lot of
hypocrisy.I'm a big fan of (most) science-fiction movies and series, especially Star
Wars but the plot in this one has too many obvious loose ends.
****possible
spoilers ahead**** Humans to warm the earth? Yeah right umm, what about
building a large battery and some kind of warmth generator instead? Or
using
less complicated minds like cows instead of humans then they wouldn't have
to worry about that stupid matrix thing.The movie is also cluttered with clichés like "There is no spoon". Blah I
got it that the matrix wasn't real the *first time* Morpheus *said* that
to
Neo. And also the ending is just plain stupid, sure love saves the day.
That
always works.

******
1 January 2001
1

'The benchmark for all sci-fi films to come'? Not likely. This is one of
the
worst films I have ever seen, and I actually sat through Con Air. The
concept of the Matrix itself is interesting, but it has withered in the
hands of the Wachowski brothers. This film is nothing more than an
exercise
in male masturbation: its got guns, kung-fu, a lot of people whispering
dramatic things such as 'He is The One...', more guns, a pretty girl in a
rubber catsuit (obviously), a few more guns, some blood and guts, and some
important sounding techno-speak. It's even got a tacked on romantic
subplot
at the very end, just to help with the fantasy. But wait...! With all the
w***ing, they forgot to make a decent movie. The best thing going for this
movie is the soundtrack (which is killer). But that has nothing to do with
the producers, directors, or any of the actors. At least Con Air has
insane
criminals with strange quirks and exploding eyeballs. The Matrix just
makes
me cringe.

******
19 December 2000
1

I am not the biggest fan of action movies, but there have been many
that
I enjoyed.  The Matrix wasn't one of them.  It is pretty hard to make a
boring action movie, but the Matrix was successful.  The only reason I go
to
action movies is to see someone bust some heads, and watching the same
three
bad guys that look exactly the same get beat up over and over got really
old
after the second time.  All that computer stuff looked really neat on the
trailers but I felt let down when I saw the movie because I had seen all
the
"cool" parts already.
I just saw Vertical Limit and that was a good action movie.  It used all
the action movie cliches but it was exciting.  

******
29 November 2000
1

Clearly it was just a special effects movie. Although I did love the
Special
effects, literally drooled over them, it didn't seem to have a plot or any
good actors. I definitely wouldn't see it again either. But, I would
recommend you see it, if just for the special effects. But I would like to
say I was breath taken during the fight scenes, intrigued by the different
words, awed at the karate scene, and enjoyed the end fight. A lot of fun,
but the special effects don't make a movie, I enjoy a good thick plot
also.

******
26 November 2000
1

While most of the world seems head over heels for this film, I can't get
over the fact that I was bored to tears.
The movie seemed really long, and while special effects are nice, a few
hours into this thing I was more interested in looking at my watch.I thought the whole premise of our entire existence being fake was a good
one. But, once seeing the movie, I realized that the premise isn't really
expanded that much. It's just developed enough to hold together the action
scenes.
Maybe I would have been more entranced with a better cast. But Keanu
Reaves
and Lawrence Fishburne don't exactly amount to genius in casting.Maybe there's some element of this movie I'm just not getting, but if this
movie was the only thing on TV, I don't think I would watch.

******
3 October 2000
1

WARNING - SPOILERSThe Matrix is the best example of people ripping off the ideas of others
and
getting credit for it. The Wachowski Brothers did nothing more than take
the
basic plotline of the first "The Invisibles" comics, written by Grant
Morrison, and splice it with the Japanese classic "Ghost in the
Shell".Watch and read the above, and you'll get more satisfaction than watching
this lousily un-original film.Also, just to point out a massive error, how could Cypher have met with
the
Agent at the restaurant when Tank had to plug people in and out of the
Matrix. I'm thinking he would have seen him, no?


******
21 September 2000
1

I sat down to watch this movie twice, why?  I fell asleep the first time. 
Everyone said, "It was so great!"  So, I expected to see a pretty good
movie.  It was far from that.  It was perhaps the worst script I had heard
in a very long time.  The directing was nothing memorable.  Photography was
standard.  But what destroyed the movie was the acting.  Keanu Reeves was
dull and totally lifeless.  Even Laurence Fishburne wasn't good(but how
could he be good in such a terrible script).  There was no chemistry between
any of the characters.  And overall, the movie was boring!  It hardly held
my interest...1.5/10

******
5 March 2000
1

i do not believe that i have ever felt so empty and immoral after finshing
a
film.  actually this trash doesn't even deserve to be called a film.  films
are meant to be special and enjoyable, this was unbearable to sit through.
the violence made no point, the acting was terrible, and to me the special
effects were the entire storyline and plot.  film makers should concentrate
onstoryline, then effects.  If you are looking for good action check out
the great escape
or the rock, you want sci-fi, then look at any 80's swarzenegger flick or
aliens movie.  they are worth watching. 

******
29 May 2004
1

So, there's this thing called Action Genre, and this other thing called
Sci-fi...well, this piece of # doesn't belong in any of those
categories.Sci-fi was going to several changes, filmmakers were looking at
pre-StarWars films, the ones who deal with the true nature of mankind,
life, and reality (not saying StarWars is bad, actually, IT ROCKS!!),
and yes, we did get good and bad films, but at lest most of them were
brainy and eye-popping, Gattaca, Dark City, The Cube, Starship Troopers
(well, not brainy), 12 Monkeys, EXistenZ...and then came The Matrix and
killed what was turning into a kinda golden age for the genre. The
Wachowskys didn't do a movie, they just spend a couple hours in a
editing room making a big medley of genre flicks, and claiming they had
reinvented the genre..which one? no idea...The Matrix tells the story of this loser, not Keanu, but Thomas
Anderson (or is it Paul Anderson...don't really care), a guy who is
contacted by this other guy, Morpheus (played by some guy), who tells
him that what we called "reality" isn't anything but an elaborate
hoax..like the movie.Let the stolen action sequences begin: The Wachowskys saw a couple of
John Woo HK movies and stole what their fight scenes were all about:
Slow-Mo, big flowing raincoats, guys handling two guns at once, and a
fascination to show every bullet hit like they are part of a
choreography based in chaos. Then, they took an ignored but cool scene
from Blade (the bad guy dodging a Slow-Mo bullet) and they made it
again with a technique invented in 1994..which THEY called
Bullet-Time... Then they watched Alex Proyas ignored classic, Dark City
and decided to lend some ideas...like every last one of
them...actually, I'm too tired to enlighten you people, just watch that
flick. Followed by the amazing Reloaded and the
just-as-crappy-as-the-first-one Revolutions0 out of 10....wait, that jar scene...mr smith...alright, 1 out of 10PD: How the f##k did they get Yuen Wu-Ping to work in here???


******
3 March 2002
1

For starters, I´d like to say that there are lots of films out there that
use special effects to make brutal killings look cool, and I have no
problem whatsoever with that. In fact, nothing clears the head
better than an hour or two of Arnold Schwarzenegger or Wesley
Snipes killing baddies and shouting one-liners. As long as an
action movie doesn´t take itself too seriously, nor do the audience
have to.
But the Matrix is one of those really dumb action movies that aren´t
content with serving as eye candy. It desperatly wants to be
Thought Provoking and Carry A Message. When you start analyzing
that message, you almost get to belive that perhaps the
Unabomber or Timothy McVeigh filled in as script doctors.
Let´s review the facts, shall we (warning, spoilers down below,
stop reading if you really want to be "surprised" by this
film):
After the initial action scenes, the movie gets rather boring while
three important facts are established:
1: That even thou "the Matrix" is a simulation, nearly all the people
in "the Matrix" are real people who think they live in the real world,
except for a small select group of people who know The
Truth.2: That you cannot go from living in "the Matrix" to living in the real
world without going though excrutiating amounts of fysiotherapy.3: That if you get hurt and die in "the Matrix" you also die in the real
world.And after that those facts have been implemented over and over,
the film goes on to show the heroes remorselessly shooting down
and killing hordes of policemen, security guards and the
occational homless person, "real people" who we have to
persume are just performing their choirs and duties in what they
belive to be the "real world".
All this carnige is justified in the name of a Greater Cause, namely
to "liberate" the inhabitants of the Matrix all at once, even though
they will have no real chance of survival once liberated.
Am I the only one that gets a bit distraught by this?Oh, and in case you actually didn´t know, "the Turner Diarys" is a
rather infamous old science fiction novel written by a nazi and
treasured by white supremacists.  It tells the "heroic" story of a little
group of self-righteous fascist terroists who overthrow the
American gouverment by instigating riots and killing all the evil FBI
agents, among other things. Add  a bit of trendy cyberspace
mumbo jumbo and what have you got?
You figure it out.

******
29 July 2001
1

This is one of the worst attempts I have seen at film-making. Without
the
special effects, there would be nothing except a bunch of guys dressed as
the Blues Brothers following Keanu Reeves around a blue screen.But then, without the special effects they wouldn't have used all the
slow motion either, and so the film would have been about five minutes
long.
And believe me, five minutes of the Blues Brothers against a blue backdrop
would have been much more entertaining.

******
10 April 2001
1

It's ridiculous that a film like this is in the top 250, much less the top
50.  This is a film with not a single redeeming value.  The special effects
are really nothing to write home about, the plot has so many holes you could
pilot a 747 through them, and Keanu Reeves gives his usual performance; that
is, being outacted by the scenery.  I recommend watching this once, to truly
appreciate how bad it is.

******
24 February 2001
1

Anyone with half of a brain could see right through this mainstream
Hollywood garbage.The effects are not "spectacular" (they are loud, annoying, and overblown)
the acting isn't "great" (It sucks).It's kind of like Bill & Ted's Adventures Through an Alternate
Reality.Most of the "serious dramatic scenes" were laughable.  I am outraged that
this is number 38 on the all-time 250!!!  It should be in the bottom
100.It's talk, talk, talk, with something remotely resembling an action sequence
popping up on the screen every 30 minutes.  It looks like a crazed computer
ate up a roll of film and spat it back out.You are WAY, WAY, WAY better off watching the GREAT movies like Citizen Kane
or City Lights or Superman: The Movie!!I give it a 0 out of 10, it's a BOMB!!!But, I'm sure the over-crazed Matrix fans will have some lame excuses for
all the movie's shortcomings.

******
11 January 2001
1

What IS it with this film?  Ten minutes of slow motion posing buried in 126
minutes of tedium and hackneyed old SF ideas does not make a groundbreaking
masterpiece.No, I just don't buy the "great effects" line.  If I wanted to look at
posters or posable figures, I'd do that.  I prefer action scenes to have,
well, action.  Even the clumsy-chicks-on-wires-film (aka Charlie's Angels)
has more involving action scenes than this confused rock
video.The acting is solid, but the less said about the plot, the better (no, it's
not even remotely original).  And at 136 minutes, this is a loooong grind.
Raving fanboys, do me a favour and please describe a scene that's not in
the
first or last five minutes, and not on either side of one of the infrequent
action scenes.  There's just not a lot happening in here.

******
9 August 2000
1

Wow. After all that this movie was hyped up, I was greatly disappointed.
But
what did I expect.This movie is typical of the garbage Hollywood churns out, and how typical
of the blind masses to eat it all up. There are massive plot loopholes one
could drive a truck through (Someone please explain to me, when in this
"virtual world", why do they need a phone to get out? That's like saying
"Quick, we need to touch a dog to get out of the matrix!)I have never once in my life seen so many good looking computer geeks. All
so stylishly dressed as well, but then again, this is a definite "style
over
content" movie, with black clothes being so popular, it's no wonder the
producer wanted people decked out head to toe in trenchcoats. After all,
why
bother to write a decent storyline when you can just fake it, put in lots
of
"great" special effects, trendy costumes, "l33t computer H@xors" and have
it
sell on these points alone? Sorry, not good enough for
me.This movie is plain bad, from the moment it starts right up to the moment
it
ends, with all the blatant overacting inbetween.If you are one of those people that doesn't like to think when they watch
a
movie, (and no people, that whole "Oh the Matrix makes you WONDER" line is
just lame, stop it) you'll love this. If you are one of those people that
aren't swayed by pretty lights and fancy special effects used to wow most
audiences, stay well clear of this.

******
9 July 1999
1

Well I never thought I'd find a film so devoid of humanity, so soulless,
so
relentless in its desire to bombard the senses with special effects
without
even the remotest hint of a coherent plotline, that I'd actually leave the
cinema feeling depressed....but yep...today I had such an experience...The Matrix...the first movie I've seen that felt like it was directed by a
machine...give me David Cronenberg's Videodrome anytime.


******
29 October 2000
1

Wow this film had soo much time and money put into bullet time i think
they
forgot about story, characterisation and plot.Yes it all looks nice, but that doesn't make a film. The plot had so many
holes it was unbelieveable. The bad guys walk around with pistols, huh,
they
can choose any weapon they can morph into anyone and all they use is
pistols. The Matrix has the ability to remove all doors from a room but it
doesn't have the power to ignite the room so that they all burn to death.
The idea of the matrix was good until you start thinking about it. This
film
is entertaining but at the end of the day it's just a stylised version of
so
many Star Trek episodes and a copy of everything Sci Fi that's gone before
it.

******
23 April 1999
1

If you've seen the commercial for 'The Matrix', then you've basically seen
it all.  95% of the action in this film can be seen in the trailer.  
The feeble attempt to cover an extremely thin plot by dazzling the audience
with special effects ALMOST works; there just wasn't enough surprise since
they gave it all away in the commercials.
If you're looking for well-rounded characters, you will be disappointed.
They are as flat as the plot.
Fishburne does a great job in his role, but the long-winded speeches and
monotone expression will put you to sleep.
The last 25 minutes or so gave 'The Matrix' a breath of fresh air; wonderful
action. If you fell asleep from the first 90 minutes, you will be awake
then.  Many people saw that last 25 minutes and thought the film was great
because of just that. I, however, believe it takes much more than a few
special effects to earn my $6.50.
At least at the show I saw, I was one of the majority; it seemed like more
people disliked it than enjoyed it.
If you have $6.50 and 2 hrs to spare, and if the Cable is out, go see 'The
Matrix' ... otherwise, wait for the video.

******
14 April 1999
1

I will say that the matrix had a good idea and for a brief 20 minutes in
the
middle, it was intriguing.  But the cheesy special effects and melodrama
were too much for me.  Most of the movie was laughable.While the religious symbolism was there, the direction was poor.  The
camera
shots were bizarre, too much was left unexplained.  All in all a very
poorly
executed idea.

******
26 February 2006
1
I just thought I'd comment, after seeing this anywhere near the top 250
films of all time, that if I'd had the choice I would have walked out
of this film.The initial concept, I agree, was an excellent idea. Its execution left
me initially bored, then irritated, then frustrated, then screaming for
the exit. I guess I'm not de-sensitized enough to be able to get into
the casual destruction of life, just because it's not the reality we
think we know.There is no reality, I agree. There are truly some wonderful concepts
to explore in the initial idea to this film. But I guess if you were
born before 1975, it's just going to ellude you... at least with
everyone I know.But so many kids have gone nuts over it, I cannot stop wondering how
they got de-sensitized so quickly.

******
25 June 2002
1
The only reason this movie was such a success was because it was released
at
the right time.  All the characters have ZERO development, and Reeves'
character has even less... if that's even possible.  I really can't stand
this guy.  No matter what he's in, he manages to ruin it and suck away
anything good the movie had going for it.  Whatever he's in, he taints.  He
ruined "Devil's Advocate" for God's sake (and admit it, if you DID see it,
you know you saw it to watch the always-magnificent Pacino make a total
buffoon out of Reeves)!  And what's with this "religious insight" crap
people are "gaining" from the movie?  You only think those things because
you want them to be there.  If this "messiah" crap in the movie was
actually
there, then it would be obvious and EVERY viewer would realize it.  Fans of
"The Matrix" just say those religious things are in the movie because they
wish they were there... but they're really not.  People, please... Keanu
Reeves is NOT Jesus, I assure you.  And if you still think he is, then I
pity you for your stupidity.1 out of 10

******
9 April 1999
1

Superb special effects.
Hideous,stupid,time consuming philosophising and acting,especially by
Reeves.The kung fu moves are the best thing in the movie except that the original
japanese and hong kong studios have been doing them for years with really
skilled martial artists.A 10 for general consumption and a zero for people with a
brain.
New term for grossing more than 100 million: gross out.

******
6 May 2005
1
This is one of the most over rated rubbish i've seen.This film borrows
so much from the Asian cinema and some sci-fi classics.The acting in
it,is well TERRIBLE to say the least.Keanu Reeves walks around like hes
smoked way to much blow.He is that wooden Disney have signed him for a
re-make of Pinocchio.The special effects are good but no better than T2 made 9 years before
this..Why this film has such a big fan base is beyond me.if you wanna see a
film about robots taking over the world/destroying all of mankind.Go
and rent any of the Terminater films to see this subject done in style.And don't watch Matrix 2 or 3.Their even worse

******
5 January 2003
1

This reminds me of watching someone else playing a videogame. Empty plot
stolen from assorted sci-fi novels and works of eastern philosophy, weak
unimpressive acting from keanu reeves. This movie is nothing more than a
special-effects showcase. The only light in the mire that is this picture
comes in the form of Laurance Fishburne, who brings his character
devotion
and life that is not present in anyone else in the film.


******
29 August 2002
1

I just did not enjoy this movie at all. We are left with too many
questions,
not enough answers, yes the action is great, other than that, not a very
good film. The whole idea about a savior just sucks, where the hell did
their inner spacecraft come from, why such yucky food, why, why why !!!!!
Why bother !

******
14 November 2000
1

I must say that I am a small admirer of sci-fi movies. Nevertheless, I have
always liked good action, even if it happens in outer space. I must remind
you here great movies, like "Total Recall", "Terminator" and "Star Wars".
These movies captured my phantasy and my curiosity.
 Great expectations I had when I started watching Matrix. I have heard so
much about its deep dialogs and its special effects. In reality, those hopes
collapsed in face of this movie. I have to confess that it is absolutely
awful. Nothing more and nothing less.
 The dialogs are sprinkled with a myriad of pseudo-philosophic sentences,
which are intended to awake in us deep thoughts. Well, it didn't arouse
anything in me but boredom. I do not accept that Morphius has some kind of
deep perspective on life and I do not accept Neo's battle with himself as
representing something in our lives. The movie has engaged in a circle of
happenings which do not take us anywhere. All the passes between the real
world and the Matrix world are so casual and unsophisticated, that it
puzzled me. I do not understand why did the producers of this movie bother
with so many transitions between the worlds, when nothing really happens,
and the basic difference between the worlds is always maintained.
 Lastly, I was deeply disappointed in the special effects. They are so
simplistic and so few that I wonder whether this film should even be
classified as a modern sci-fi. 
 My final conclusion would be that this movie has become some kind of
culture item, and people were grasped by its media-magic. Two years after
its release, it's so vane. Try to see it now, and you will be convinced. 


******
5 June 2000
1

This film has no saving graces.  A silly, unbelievable plot is made worse by
childish characterisation.  The gratuitous violence at the end, with
innocent security guards being shot to pieces by our illustrious "heroes"
completes the film's moral bankrupcy.  Would someone tell me why the bad
guys where dark glasses?  

******
25 August 1999
1

I made every effort to be open minded about "The Matrix." I put aside such
questions as "Why does Hollywood see Keanu as a cyberpunk? How came everyone
is making making a big deal about these fx which you can see in shampoo
commercials?" I can honestly say I gave it every chance. The fact that the
creators were trying to create fully developed worldview was admirable, and
the movies surprises hadn't yet been revealed.So as the movie rolled, and I got too see one of the worst, most painful
movies I have ever seen, I could honestly say it wasn't me. I enjoy scifi
and Hong Kong films, enjoy Philip K. Dick, so I was basically the ideal
audience for this film.The plot was so full of loopholes, maintaining suspension of disbelief was
impossible. Except for one or two supporting cast
members, the acting was lifeless, and the action was unsupported
by any motivation. The antagonists were far more sympathetic than the
protagonists, whose cold-blooded killing sprees did nothing to endear them
to me. Finally the washed out lighting
and coloring took away a lot of depth from the images..
when
someone seems to leap from building to building, if the buildings look
collapsed together, it's not that impressive.And the fighting.. when you watch Jet Li or Jackie Chan
fight,
even when they are obviously assisted by wires, you feel an exhilaration at
what they are physically capable of doing. The fights flow, and the
character is maintained through out. In The Matirx, there is no real joy or
sense of exertion. People punch each other, pull some interesting feats, but
without any
sense of risk or accomplishment.What people saw in this waste of film, time and money, I do not know. But I
include it with the American remake of Godzilla as one of the worst movies I
have ever seen. If you want Phillip K. Dick reality warping, see Blade
Runner. If you want good cyberpunk anime, see Akira or Ghost in The Shell,
or for martial arts, a good Bruce Lee or Hong Kong flick.But don't waste your time on this.

******
23 May 2005
1
I didn't like The Matrix. I thought it was an alright movie until I saw
it again, then it just got to be annoying. I know only
pseudo-intellectuals use this term, but it was pseudo-intellectual. I
thought the characters were wooden, the dialogue was pretty bad, and it
was all too convenient for me. When a character skips over the growth
and learning process because they just downloaded the skills, like
flying a helicopter or learning kung fu, I see that as a flaw in the
story and writing. Then where does it stop? I was expecting a character
to actually say, "Well...yeah...I know how because I uh...I downloaded
a...program." Nobody's fooling me with the whole "it's about computers,
they can do that" bit. Save it for the 13-year-olds that "understand"
the plot. There are smarter and more creative ways of conveying this
idea. I hated the fight scenes as well. CGI on almost every fight,
especially when everything looks like a game later does not mean its
good. Far from it.

******
10 February 2004
1

TERRIBLE. And I rarely say that... but come on, why do people like this?
Because alot of people are wowed by the special effects, but besides
this...
well, just look at the one line summary above. It's bad kung fu fighting
mixed with the acting talents of a bunch of potheads. I swear not one
emotion is used in this movie, it's like ATM machines talking to each
other.
But no... people watched this, now it's a complete trilogy of crap. It's
crap like this that as long as you have great special effects your movie
could be about a hamster who likes to run in his wheel. To find what I
give
this movie, take the number of wars Canada has fought in times the number
of
people who watched this movie. I give it that out of 100.

******
15 February 2000
1

Is Matrix action-packed? Yes! Does it have great special effects? Yes!
Action movie lovers will be thrilled.Is the plot solid? No. The background situation is so completely improbable
that it borders on the ridiculous. The justification behind the action
scenes is very, very weak. The potential philosophical content (about
virtual realities) is completely ignored - unlike in Thirteenth Floor, for
example. The symbolism is so heavy and cheap (Trinity, Neo = One, etc.)
that
it truly stinks.And then you've got tons of ridiculous stuff going on. For example, within
that virtual reality the heroes still have to use a heavy mobile phone to
call home.  And then they cannot be "beamed" from that cell phone, no, they
have to go to a fixed line phone - how very likely and
logical!I gave it a 6 for the action - and I was generous.

******
7 November 1999
1

Whoah!  That was a really awful excuse for a movie.  Horrible acting and a
horrible script is what you get with this one, but I expected these things
to be bad.  What I didn't expect was that the SFX were horrible too.  I
can't believe people think that they are good.  Good special effects make
you forget that you are seeing special effects, and you can believe that
they are real.  In The Matrix, you never forget.  They are way overdone and
end up looking very childish, and we've seen these cheezy effects done a
million times in commercials even though people may not realize
it.All I've heard about this movie is how the effects are amazing, but I say if
that is what you are looking for watch The Phantom Menace or The Mummy.  If
you want to see a good virtual reality movie watch eXistenZ or even The
Thirteenth Floor was better than The Matrix.

******
14 June 1999
1

For me, the experience of watching this film was like paying to watch
paint
dry in a room full of people who have never before seen paint dry and are
hence absolutely thrilled by it.You will probably love it, mind you. That's your privilege.It just about functions as a crass action movie, provided you can sit
through the tedious first hour, and the terrifyingly non-existent
justification for something that (as several other reviewers have
observed)
could actually have been sensibly reasoned if anyone with reasonable
intelligence or knowledge had been on the writing team.As it is, this mediocre script using an old, old, old idea has nothing to
offer fans of sci fi who can read and were awake in the eighties, and
considerably less to offer action fans than John Woo's Hong Kong films.
The
framing plot, when revealed, requires more than just a willing suspension
of
disbelief, it requires that you dismantle all your critical faculties and
just content yourself with wallowing in the faintly entertaining special
effects.It tries to be cool - and evidently succeeds in the eyes of many of the
people who see it - but it seems to me little more than another soulless
product of committee thinking and appeals to the lowest common
denominator -
and it doesn't get much lower than this.If you wish to see the same ground covered with more intelligence and
visual
flare, try the better-than-average film 'Dark City' (also mentioned by
another reviewer) or the less accessible, but more stylish 'eXistenZ'. Not
that I feel 'The Matrix' stole it's one flimsy idea from these films. This
old chestnut has been around as long as cyberpunk has, and probably longer
for all I know.Still, bread and circuses, I suppose. Keep the masses happy and then they
don't have to think for themselves.Ah well, it's only a blockbuster, I suppose. It's not supposed to be well
made.

******
10 March 2006
1
I don't get why everybody loves this movie so much. It's just not that
good. On its own merits, it deserves more than the one star I gave it,
but when you factor in the annoyance factor of the gushing fans...
well, let's say I just felt a need to counterbalance its high ratings.Blah, blah, blah, special effects. So what. Yet another example of
Special-Effects-In-Search-Of-A-Movie. The story holds together poorly.
The premise was initially pretty interesting, but the movie seemed
utterly incapable of establishing rules for how its world works and
sticking to them.Finally, the movie hit a pet peeve of mine, which was, to me, its
ultimate, fatal flaw. I'm very big on the "science" part of "science
fiction". So you lose me instantaneously when you start introducing
mystic mumbo-jumbo into a science fiction story. For me, this film
jumped the shark when we get to that wise woman character. (nevermind
that the mystic nonsense is somewhat demystified in the sequel films;
this review is about *this* film). Yeah, dropping in an all-knowing,
cryptic prophetess, without the tiniest hint of explanation of her
abilities, makes for a convenient plot device, but defies all reason or
sense.

******
3 February 2000
1

My word. Are we to believe that this (as of the date of this review, Feb. 3
'00) is the 33rd greatest film ever made? Says who? Mrs. Talbot's Seventh
Grade computer proficiency class? This film borders on unwatchable to anyone
with a sliver of sense. The villains aren't characters. The secondary
protagonists only exist so they can be cast aside by the resulting force of
Keanu breaking wind. They're names are all computer jargon, reminiscent of
the gimmicky cartoon characters and batman villains whose defining traits
would also (COINCIDENTALLY) be their names. The Matrix is a completely
controlled false environment, (except the parts that aren't controlled?
PHONES? GUNS THAT HURT THE BAD GUYS, WHO MAAADE THE GUNS?) It shamelessly
advertises it's obviously approaching sequels during the dialogue, including
introducing characters we never see, places we never go. The special effects
are over-used confetti in a story that doesn't exist any more than the rest
of the nonsensical and completely implausible fake world referenced in that
story. The girl I love, is a huge fan of the Matrix. I can't help her now.
But you can help others.

******
1 June 2000
1
Seeing this movie was like watching someone else play a video game:
after 10 minutes I wanted to either leave or play some myself. As a
matter of fact, the producers of this thing probably owe its popularity
to parents who dumped their kids in video parlors at malls instead of
sending them to school.I mean, even if you get past the impressive (for awhile, anyway)
whistles and buzzers, "The Matrix" pushes the envelope just an inch too
far when it asks us to believe Keanu Reeves' MIND is being sought to
SAVE THE WORLD! It's too funny for words. WHO could believe it?Well, I guess if you have never met anyone who actually HAD a mind you
MIGHT buy it. But, if that were the case, you probably wouldn't be
allowed to go out of the house alone to see "The Matrix."

******
10 May 1999
1

No head, no tail, only a heap of special effects. The film all in all can
be
summarized in those words. Incredible persons who perform incredibly, with
thousands of bullets flying and none of them reaching the targets, a story
almost immaterial and a lot of deja vu worse of their predecessors: Keanu
Reeves quoting himself in Little Buddha when he meets the other possible
elects, the Blues Brothers or Man in Black for the black glasses, Butch
Cassidy and Billy the Kid for the scenes of Reeves coming from behind a
column with two guns blasting and so on. What did I forget ? Yes, some
indirect advertising of a famous cellular telephone producer (the kind
used
is so particular .), perhaps not so common in 2199 (when is supposed to be
the story), a software house where your chief tells you will be fired if
arriving late working (while it is known that usually software houses are
opened nearly 24 hours a day). A film to be forgotten.

******
7 October 2000
1

Despite the fact that Keanu Reeves couldn't act his way out of a wet bag, I
was very excited to go see The Matrix because it had Laurence Fishbourne
who's a very good actor and the previews were visually stunning. 
Unfortunately, the special effects were the only things stunning about the
movie, unless you count how stunningly stupid the dialogue was, or how
stunningly bad the acting was (even good actors like Fishbourne and Joe
Pantalione couldn't get anything out of this script).  The filmakers here
took a wonderful concept, filled it with marvelous special effects and left
it to die without any substance.  If it's enough for you for a movie to look
good, then you'll love this film.  If, like me, you need an interesting
story, good dialogue and acting, don't bother with The Matrix.


******
16 June 2006
1
The Matrix is nothing but a cheap and effect overladen copy of Rainer
Werner Fassbinder's excellent TV-movie "Welt am Draht", which was
broadcast in 1973. Typical Hollywood overblown style, where they think
FXs are everything. The Fassbinder movie hardly uses any effects at
all, but is ten times as intelligent and a hundred times more
enjoyable. Yach! Sorry, brothers Wachowski, have a look at the
Fassbinder movie again and learn that less is more. Some people like
this kind of action; for me it ruins a movie completely. I was still a
kid when I saw that Fassbinder movie, and I would like to see it again;
but their are some legal problems about the rights to this movie, and
it can't be broadcast at the moment.

******
14 April 1999
1

I'm not sure why so many people were so impressed by this movie.  Story?
Perhaps if you've never thought about realistic virtual reality, or
dreamed
you were a butterfly and wondered if you were a butterfly dreaming you
were
a man.  Then you might be blinded to the huge plot holes. But the script
will fit wonderfully to its obvious
destination: a video game surely on its way to stores right
now.Perhaps the action sequences, if you're the type who likes violence video
games so much you'd be happy to sit and watch someone else play one...
over
and over and over.  The camera tricks and effects were interesting once,
but
we've all seen them on TV already -- the commercial, in fact, is better
than
the movie.Certainly it wasn't the characters.  Only Morpheus had any kind of
personality, which saved us from having to find out what the other actors
might have been like if they'd been called on to act.  Keanu got two
scenes
that required acting (the kiss of life, and the epiphany), but he missed
on
both and just laid or stood there.  The rest of the movie, Neo was called
The One, but he might have been The Zero -- other than a token reference
to
him having the trouble with authority figures all action heros are
required
by Hollywood Law to have (subtlely portrayed by having someone tell him
"you
have trouble with authority figures, don't you?") he had no character,
making Keanu a great fit for him.William Gibson, save us!

******
15 December 2004
1
I know that this is one of the most popular movies of all time, but
that is a flaw in the viewing public. The main reason I dislike this
movie so much is because it was a rip off of a much better movie that
came out a couple years before it. That being Dark City. Lets review
the similarities shall we? First of all our main character wakes up
disoriented and not understanding the world around him JM because he
lost his memory and Neo because he is taken out of the matrix. We find
that both characters have been given a false set of memories by
puppeteers (be them aliens or robots) We find that these puppeteers are
doing the same thing for all people in an attempt to keep their own
race going (matrix as batteries DC cus they need to find the soul)
Finally the main character proves to be the savior of the humans by
finding they are the only one who can put an end to the false lives
that the puppeteers are forcing humans to live. they both do this
through the same method. by having a mentor teach them how to use the
devices of their captors against them (neo learns how to hack and
control the matrix while Murdoc learns how to use the machines of the
strangers to alter reality. also we see stylish black leather as the
main wardrobe in the matrix. black leather gowns are the main wardrobe
for the strangers. moving away from the rip off problem we see that
Dark City has a message implying you to ask yourself if your identity
is more than just the sum of your memories. the matrix makes people
feel smart for understanding the movie, but really offers no deep
thought. the feel of Dark City is also better since it has the dark
ambiance created by the same director as The Crow. while the matrix has
nothing new or special about its "feel" just your basic action movie
with a plot to try to make the viewer feel smart. Point is: same movie
only better (although lacking the eye candy the public adores) is Dark
City

******
29 April 2003
1

Tell me...what do you get when you take a bunch of computer nerds who
have
no concept of effective storytelling and put them into a room to make a
movie...?  You get "The Matrix"I hate this movie...and you wanna know why?  Because it serves no
purpose.
It's "Dude, Where's my Car" on steroids...louder, flashier, but not a bit
more interesting.  The whole thing is based on special effects.  It's a
film
by two directors that think half of the cameras running at 300 fps is
art...or something.Hugo Weaving has the only good performance in this movie as Agent Smith.
Carrie Anne Moss is bland as can be.  Do I even have to comment on Keanu
Reeves....dude...woah...nuff said.This is the perfect example of Joel Silver run amuck.  Just because you
have
money to produce movies, doesn't mean you should produce bad
movies....sounds pretty obvious to me.  I'm just so thankful when I see
someone like Steven Spielberg putting out a movie like Minority
Report...a
movie (actually...a director and crew) that knows how to USE special
effects
to drive a story.  Not just shoot the hell out of a government
building...hmmmm...not such a great scene to slip in there now,
huh?So, to everyone involved in The Matrix...give up your black leather, gun
toting, world-is-an-illusion, horrible filmmaking and go put your money
to
good use...like film school.

******
12 November 2000
1

This film is abolutely awful. My girlfriend and I would have left the
cinema
half-way through if we knew that we both felt the same about it at the
time!
Apart from the special effects, the film suffers from WOODEN ACTING (There
goes Keanu again!) and ridiculous storyline.
The special fx are amazing though - apart from that it is a total waste of
time.
However - we seem to stand alone on this one, as the rest of the world
seems
to think this is the most amazing film ever made. Oh well.

******
10 May 2000
1

Somewhere along the line, someone planning this film forgot to put in a
plot.  It's worse than "Twister" in that respect.  Ooh look at all our fancy
camera tricks and weapons and weird sci-fi stuff that really makes no sense.
 But it's loud!  And that makes a good film, you know.  And I would love,
just once in my life, to see Keanu Reeves not play a blank-faced doofus in
every movie he's made since "Bill and Ted."In short, I absolutely and totally hated this film.  My fiance loves it and
watches it at least once a month, but I would rather clean out a cat box
every hour for the rest of my life than ever see this film
again.

******
4 July 1999
1

I side with the negative crowd on this one; with the risk of sounding
pompous I have to say this: To believe that this is a brilliant film
suggest
a low level of education and an underdeveloped personal philosophy. There,
I've said it. To question the realness of reality is a 400-year old
Cartesian idea. Actually, it was explored more interestingly in the old
Star
Trek episode "Spectre of the Gun" in 1969. The rest of the film is an
obvious rip-off of "The Terminator" and all of John Woo, which are far more
interesting movies. The film ponders too long on the central premise, and
there isn't enough action to make it a good action movie, either. Still,
overall production design is great, but the acting is wooden, and Fishburne
makes for an unconvincing guru. All the good scenes were revealed in the
trailer, so there's not much else to do than just sit in the theatre and
feel patronized by the whole thing. At least, that's what I did. The whole
thing just isn't half as clever and original as it wants to
be.

******
2 April 1999
1

I can't believe that anyone would seriously suggest that this film was
even
average!  It was worst film I have seen in a very long time.The movie had so little to offer, it is hard to only point to specific
flaws:1) Keanu has to be one of the worst actors of our era.  He shows no signs
of
even moderate intelligence or talent, and as a hero, he comes across as
flat
and unispiring.  It is hard to believe that his character would have
anything to offer that would distingish him from your average idiot.  And
in
action scenes, it was impossible to tell if he is *supposed* to look silly
or if he can't help it.  No charisma, no flair, just pathetic.2) Very shallow and poor development of an unoriginal idea.  The idea that
our reality is not real at all is hardly original.  It has been the
subject
of science fiction for decades, and a successful treatment of the subject
should delve into some psychological depths.  We should be left wondering
whether our world truly is real.  Or we should get a sense of how willing
or
unwilling we might be to face the fact that our world is an illusion.  We
should wonder whether it matters if our world is an illusion, or whether
reality is what we perceive as real.  Whatever the protrayal, we should
leave the theater feeling intellectually moved.  While the film briefly
brushed on some of these topics, it was so brief and shallow that no
impression was left.  Instead, focus returned to martial arts which had no
real purpose in terms of the plot.3) The story dragged as we were forced to sit through an explanation of
the
matrix that was completely obvious--a couple of visual effects would have
gotten the point across in less than a minute with more effect.  While the
characters beat the idea of the matrix to death in the dialogue, it did
little to shed light into the hearts and minds of the characters.  What
was
their motivation, from where did they get their drive and courage?  Why
were
they able to sense the matrix?  None of the answers are even touched upon,
and the characters are flat and unrealistic as a result.4) The idea of the matrix is very poorly thought out.  Instead of creating
a
believable world and believable rules for the matrix, the plot resorts to
physical fighting, which makes no sense at all.  The film obviously had no
intention of stretching the mind of
the viewer, instead catering to an audience of mindless action-addicts.
While action might have added to a well-thought out film, it cannot
support
a film where the premise is psychological or intellectual.5) No sense of despair, darkness, or power from the futuristic scenes.
The
future world is portrayed so little that we really don't even have a
chance
to be overwhelmed by how horrible it could be.  In an attempt to make a
happy action film, the dark undertones were completely
dropped.The very few redeeming values were:
1) Interesting use of slow-motion action
2) A few nice special effects (no more than an average action film these
days)
3) A promising premise.  While not original, the idea has great potential.
Several other films, such as Dark City have shown a bit of this potential,
and there is a plethora of such plots in books.In short, any thoughtful, insightful, meaningful, or inspired treatment of
a
potentially interesting idea was completely dropped to show a few almost
laughably out of place action scenes.  The fact that people rave about
this
movie shows that people are willing to swallow the mindless just for some
cool effects.  How sad.

******
24 March 1999
9

The Matrix kicks butt.  Though derivative of ideas put forward by countless
other sci-fi films over the past few years, it is supremely well executed. 
Check it out.

******
30 June 2012
1
Although a bit skeptical, I decided to give it a go. It is a film
revered by thousands and watched by millions. What can go wrong ? a lot
in fact. Keanu Reeves plays the role of Thomas Anderson, Neo - quite
creative this name - but you might as well call him "The one". The
place where his revelation occurs is a ship with the name of "Zion". I
don't have to further it. It kicks off with some noir atmosphere
seasoned by disconnected and encoded dialogs; it might prompt you
believe you are watching something serious. Don't fall for that. Then
it goes downhill. You never get to know why these aliens are on earth
?!!? what is their angle after all ? The so-called Zion ship flies from
nothing to nowhere with some fights with robot-aliens to help them pass
the time. The story-telling is sketchy, more riddled than a fishnet. It
tries to be serious and ends up as ludicrous.

******
15 August 2007
1
I love Sci Fi movies, but sitting through this piece of garbage was
just torture! This movie definitely makes my bottom 10 of all time. The movie was boring, I had no idea what was going on half the time,
because I couldn't seem to pay attention. I found this movie
uninteresting, hard to follow, unbelievable when I was was able to
follow along and the acting left a lot to be desired. If it weren't for
the special effects, I believe this movie would have been a total flop
because the story was terrible. This just proves that if you have enough special effects in a movie,
that people will watch anything. Needless to say, I won't be watching
any sequels to this film. I'd rather have my eyeballs gouged out with
salad tongs!

******
20 January 2005
2
I learned of the "Ultimate Matrix" DVD set last year, near Christmas,
which was undoubtedly what it was intended to be purchased for. Since
I'm in sobriety, as of River Phoenix's autopsy signature date, November
15, 1993, I have taken a keen interest in his, his family's, his
friends', and colleagues' histories. He was with Keanu Reeves, as many
of you know, in "My Own Private Idaho," in the early 90s, where they
did drugs to do the sex scenes, from which River never fully recovered,
and this ultimately led to his OD, outside The Viper Room, in LA, on
Halloween morning, 1993. I could write on and on about the "Matrix" series, which is most likely
what Keanu Reeves is now known best for--and before that, it was the
"Bill and Ted" movies. He and River tried to "escape" their teen idol
images, by being in Gus Van Sant's horrible movie. I have a limited time, on-screen, at present, as I'm at the library and
I need to get to a meeting in Mill Valley, now.To "cap," I find the "Matrix" movies to be "too violent and sexy." It
should be a rating--and then, the movie wouldn't get made that way. I just did a little "research" on the Wachowskis, at this humongous and
prominent site, where I've been harassed routinely for my November 15th
story, and I just found out that Andy Wachowski's wife, Thea Bloom,
filed for divorce in late 2002, because he was leaving her for a
"professional dominatrix," who had made him his "slave!" Keanu Reeves "owes an apology" to us, if I may be so bold. I didn't
think I'd "demand" this, publicly, as I write him, "clandestinely," via
Paulie Kosta of Becky, the band they're in together with Rebecca Lord
and Rob Mailhouse, but I never hear back directly anyway, so here goes!I could get much more "deep," as I just heard the commentary by Cornel
West and Ken Wilbur, with which I did not always agree, since I feel
you cannot "justify" such violence and graphic sex in movies. Most out
of Hollywood are this way for me--and the sex scenes in "My Own Private
Idaho" led indirectly to River's OD. Is anyone in sobriety as of that,
but me? I just think these people were "lucky" if they survived the
Wachowskis. What is not covered in the very long DVD "ultimate" series is the fact
that Jennifer Syme, Keanu Reeves' girlfriend, who gave stillbirth to
their daughter, Ava Archer, on Christmas Eve, 1999, is not mentioned.
After their "break-up" over this, shortly thereafter, she died in an
apparent DUI, where she was the only one driving, after coming from
Marilyn Manson's mansion in LA, where there'd been a party! She'd been
with Reeves, apparently, just the day before, having lunch in San
Francisco at Crepes on Cole, which I've never heard of, near where the
"burly man" scene was being shot for "Matrix Reloaded," among others in
Alameda County! Manson's obscene music is on the first movie's
soundtrack, and a video of it is included in the DVD series,
unbelievably! Jennifer's mother, Maria St. John, sued Manson for "wrongful death,"
about a year later, but he apparently has so much money that I think
she "lost," since he denied charges. The "architect" scene was filmed at that time, and it was later used in
an MTV movie awards ceremony introduction, starring Justin Timberlake,
which was "foul" about women, in this case Trinity--and "made fun" of
Gloria Foster's role in the movies, too. Reeves gave his approval to
use his image from these scenes, and it was not "OK" with me! Gloria Foster died of a sudden heart attack, during shooting, and
Aaliyah died in a plane crash, too, that year, as well as the terrorist
attacks occurring. A reason I am "concerned" about Reeves, in particular, when it comes to
the "Matrix" series, is because he has been in a number of DUIs, most
notably one in the 80s, where he shut his headlights off on his bike in
Toganga Canyon, where he apparently "lost his spleen," according to the
"Hardball" directors' commentary! Hence, my "demand" for an apology!One good thing that has come of all my writing is that last fall,
Johnny Depp finally gave his controlling share of The Viper Room to
Anthony Fox's daughter. Fox "disappeared mysteriously," after suing
Depp for money. A judge was trying to shut down the club. I wrote him
about my getting into sobriety, as of River's autopsy,
"coincidentally." I don't think it's a "coincidence," really. If you
look at this date in history, it is "significant," and I feel the
spirits convened for me.

******
22 February 2009
1
Warner Bros. Pictures issued a statement denying any tie between
real-world violence and the virtual violence of the "Matrix" movies:
"Any attempt to link these crimes with a motion picture . . . is
disturbing and irresponsible."Yet criminals themselves keep making the connection. When Lee Boyd
Malvo, teen half of the alleged D.C. sniper duo, goes on trial for
murder in Chesapeake, Va., tomorrow, his attorney confirms that he too
will weave "The Matrix" into his insanity defense. Malvo told FBI
agents that they should "watch 'The Matrix"' if they wanted to
understand him, and jailers found lines of dialogue from the film
scribbled on paper in his cell. Even the Columbine killers were
"Matrix" fans. (From Boston Globe By Mark Schone, 11/9/2003)Neo finds himself in an alternate reality, aware that he once was
"unconscious" in a computer-generated virtual reality and killers are
chasing him. He must resort to fancy footwork and plenty of violence
himself in order to save the world. All that he once believed has
proved false as he's designated the savoir and learns his secret super
powers. What Neo does serves a higher purpose, which gives his violence
noble flavor. But that's a movie. Or is it? Apparently, some murder
defendants have come to believe they were in the matrix and that
killing others was therefore justified. Lee Boyd Malvo, was devoted to
the movie. In jail he made many jottings, including a plea that people
should free themselves from the Matrix. He told the FBI to watch the
film... In San Francisco, Vadim Mieseges, 27, killed and dismembered
his landlady, and in his defense he said that he'd been "sucked" into
the Matrix. In Ohio, Tonda Lynn Ansley also attacked her landlady on
this premise, but was certain she had not really done so: it was only a
dream. She had targeted three others as well, to free herself from
their mind control. In Virginia 19-year-old Joe Cook, who claimed he
did not realize what he was doing when he dressed like Neo, grabbed his
twelve-gauge shotgun (purchased because it resembled one in the movie),
and shot both of his adoptive parents to death. (From Crime Library by
Katherine Ramsland)

******
27 August 2005
2
Some action scenes are entertaining. Otherwise, this movie is a waste
of time. Wooden acting. Fighting scenes are too long and martial arts
look tedious and unnatural. Bog standard conspiracy theory story. Old
idea. The "matrix philosophy" has been treated in superior ways in
dozens of earlier films and books. But I would forgive all of that if
it weren't for one of the most pathetic explanations I've come across
in science fiction: That humans were kept in those cubicles for
generating electric power (If the machines were so clever, why didn't
they just build power plants? ... and it would have blended nicely with
the story if the explanation had been that the brain's computing power
is utilised). Call me petty, but that ruined it for me. There is
nothing worse when going to the cinema than being taken for a fool by
the directors.

******
1 April 2004
1

First Version
It is such a pitty that misfits like this come to such an appreciation
these
days. No sign of philosophy whatsoever, just a sort of foggy net of
actions
pretending to be intelligent that loom the idea of an universal
manipulation
and a whole load of special effects, very much to the liking of
unsensitive
freaks.Second Version
Yet, all that could be true, and all of us just little wheels of an evil
mechanism. The manipulation consists of making a mockery of serious things
and esoterical truths. Once a movie like this appears, the watchful eye is
distracted. 

******
13 September 1999
1

Be advised; the text below *** CONTAINS SOME SPOILERS ***Only thing that kind of disturbed me after seeing this great entertaining
action/thriller was that why on earth those machines granted us humans with
that pseudo-world in the first place? I don't think that machines would care
less if we'd see our actual horrid reality rather than that artificially
created 'nice' one. Am I supposed to believe that a machine has a sense of
morality and pity? A machine with a consciousness? That's a good one. ;)
That's not even too unique idea to begin with and even if so, that's really
not too plausible here when considered how gruesome and ruthless those
machines and their world is portrayed in this film's actual reality -not in
that VR called the Matrix. Slightly controversial, yes, but if you can get
past that you're facing a truly mind-blowing action/thriller movie
experience!But what about the city of Zion -humankind's _last_ refuge? We didn't get
even a quick peek at it, why? And why did the machines just let Reeves
escape from that alien fish tank (whatever it was!)? He simply pulls those
freakish tubes off, after that the creepy spider-like machine comes poking
around and decides to lift him up and throw him in the sewer pipes. Which it
does. Reeves lands in water, tries hard to stay in the surface and *WHAM*
the next moment he wakes up in Morpheus' and his crew's ship. (I'm not 100%
sure if that's how it went, I might have missed something during these two
scenes but I simply can't remember anymore since -let's face it- everything
in this flick seems to happen at triple fast-forward! Heheh!)I mean what the **ll was that suppose to be? While they're examining Keanu
in the ship we learn that he's too weak to use his muscles (They in fact
have to be re-built!) let alone use his eyes (Having never before used them
in real life.)! And still he had somehow managed to get rid of the tubes
stuck up in his a... body while being trapped as a human battery (Now that's
witty, really!) in that container and struggled to stay afloat in water JUST
a few moments ago! There are even more confusing stuff in the film than just
these that I mentioned. I just hope the sequel(s) will provide us with
well-reasoned answers to all those questions troubling -at least- me but
hopefully you too. ;)All those biblical referrals and enough ambiguous and cool philosophical
one-liners and quotes plus a dialogue and a plot which messes with you head
more than you'd like to, are pretty easy ways to make a movie seem more
intellectual, sophisticated and even artistic to some content than it really
is. Basically you can come up with any conclusions and try your best to
reason what this flick really was about and still you don't know if you're
right or wrong. I suppose everybody can see this movie in so many different
ways if so wants. And that's just great! At least I personally like movies
that really make me wonder and question stuff -no matter in what way that
goal is achieved.Cool, cold and distant acting. Some may consider that as bad acting, but
frankly said that sort of style fits like a glove in the film's dark and
"mildly" bizarre atmosphere. Great mind-boggling plot. Really far-out wicked
special FXs! And maybe most intense (read: FAST!!) action scenes I've ever
seen. Visually stunning. What else you wanna hear?? Go see this in some
quality movie theater. Hold on to your seat and enjoy the
ride!PS. Would _you_ have taken the blue pill...? I would have.


******
5 March 2015
1
Horrendous. Godawful. Deplorable. These words don't even sum up how bad
THE MATRIX is. It's a movie existing for no one, other than whoever
benefits from the tax write-off. It has been made without an ounce of
passion, intelligence or interest by filmmakers who have, - stunningly
- made good movies in the past. I hate THE MATRIX and want to forget it
exists as soon as possible.Yet I forge on. Consider this review a warning; if you actually end up
watching THE MATRIX after reading this, I never want to know you. In
every way, it is beneath the standards of an original Sci-Fi movie; at
least those have a little bit of gumption, a spiritedness that
indicates someone within the production had fun while making it.

******
25 June 2006
1
This is the biggest crap movie I've ever tortured myself through. How
on earth did it reach the Top250 list? Is it because people feel
committed and therefore "must" love it? I can't see no other reason at
all. It gave me absolutely nothing. OK, the special effects are maybe
good, but what's the use of it when the story is as far beyond realism
as you possibly can get? People that liked this movie have said that
this could be the reality in 100-200 years from now on, and even
earlier. Excuse me, but how stupid can you get? Nothing of it will even
be reality in a billion years. It is impossible to "fuck up" brains
like that. It will never happen that a human being that knows
absolutely nothing about how to control a helicopter, can have all the
knowledge and experience thats needed transferred to its brain in just
hundreds of a second. People, please, get a life, get realistic...

******
19 July 2014
1
Now let me start out by saying I have seen two movies by the Wachowski
brothers "The Matrix" and "Speed racer". While in my opinion these
films were both bad I am still willing to give "Cloud Atlas" and
"Bound" a chance, but the subject of this review is "The Matrix". Now I
will start out by saying the acting is just okay. Keanu Reeves' puts
his one talent, looking very confused, to work quite nicely, so I can't
believe the original consideration for this role was Will Smith. The
rest of the cast does okay, but they don't have much to work with.
Seriously, name one personality trait of any character. It's difficult
isn't it? By the way I don't mean what the character does I mean what
are they like. Next, I am sure the action was cool at the time, but
there actually isn't much action. The one good action scene was lifted
straight from the movie "blade" and bullet time was actually invented
by the brilliant director Yasuomi Umetsu, just watch "Kite" and you
will know what I mean. Plus the bullet time doesn't make the action any
more exciting it's just there to look cool. The philosophy is somewhat
interesting until you learn that it was all basically lifted from the
film "Ghost in the Shell". In fact now that I think about it everything
in this movie is like "Ghost in the shell" the visuals, the story, the
totalitarian, but somewhat Utopian society, all of it. I could go on
about the countless plot holes and everything else that is wrong with
this mess, but I'm done for today.

******
27 May 2009
1
Columbine killers apparently liked this story of computer genius Keanu
Reeves who must to save the world from the illusion called Matrix. No,
they didn't deserve to be tortured in the school, no one does, and
instead of massacre they just should have make their tormentors to
taste their own medicine in long and repeated intervals - but gaaawd,
the duo's taste was awful. Cooler-than-thou posing and "action" while
bystanders are brutally killed - that's the plot. High-tech imagery is
ugly as hell - costumes, sets and photography look AWFUL. No, this is
not -10 exploitation sleaze or crap like that, it is a real movie, but
it is a bad one. And ugly, if I didn't already mention it.

******
5 May 2011
1
It's astonishing that so much money, talent, technical expertise and
visual imagination can be put in the service of something so stupid.
This overlong, high concept hokum is little more than a bloated,
mechanical, and tiresome film which is big on visuals and short on
story. Bland, androgynous Keanu Reeves plays a 22nd-century computer
hacker who is recruited by Carrie-Anne Moss to join a band of cyber
freedom fighters led by Morpheus in a struggle against the scary,
menacing machines that control mankind. The result is an eye-popping,
deafening and mind-numbing muddled mayhem and possibly the least
humane, least responsible, least pardonable movie I have ever seen.

******
29 October 2007
1
Quite simply, The Matrix is an overblown pile of tosh, unengaging tripe
at the best of times, depressing nonsense at worst. Keanu is
outrageously bad as Neo, Lawrence "should have skipped those 5 burgers"
Fishburne gives a career worst performance.As for the effects, dreadful! Already look badly dated. The story is a
tired mish-mash of inconprehensible crud! I went to the cinema with a
few pals, we got separated. They saw it in another screen approx 30mins
after me. When they came out they were raving about how good it was. I
have since disowned them. Anybody who says they like this film should
be erased from you life.Utter utter garbage personified!!!!!!!!

******
16 April 2002
1

What can you say about a movie where Laurence Fishburne (the poor man's
Samuel L. Jackson) is the most exciting character?  It's hard to know who
the good guys are...the personality-deficient Agents, or the
personality-deficient Neo.Lots and lots of flashy special effects and pretty people in trendy
outfits,
and too much hard-to-swallow plot made this a pretty dull
viewing.In ten years, this one will just be like "Cleopatra"...high budget, but
with
no lasting qualities.

******
23 May 1999
1

I found this movie too boring and predictable. The plot dragged and I
don't
think developed enough.I didn't find the special effects that great (I was forced to see it a
second time to catch the end - but I didn't pay) and I believe that all
these effects have been done before in a more convincing way with better
timing. The effects (which _IS the movie) were very few and far between
and
the characters not developed a great deal to their potential.... I must
say
when neo was being towed by the helicopter, that looked very cheap
indeed!The slow motion looked very familiar - lock stock and two smoking barrels
band waggon! and the story (as I said) predictable and
unconvincing!

******
10 May 1999
1

I had high hopes, but this movie was terrible. The storyline was woefully
pretentious and the action scenes were so-so; the fight scenes were
particularly risible. It looked like Hong Kong action cinema with the last
thin tethers to reality removed.Movies like this are sucking the oxygen out of science fiction; they touch
all the bases, but there's no trace of intelligent thought or emotion
behind
the pompous story-line. Ah, well. If William Gibson can't write a decent
cyberpunk movie script, who can?


******
28 April 1999
1

I am so tired of movies where all that matters is how cool it looks.  The
plot was ridiculous and if I had heard that Neo was the "One" one more
time,
I would have run screaming from the theatre.  At the end of the movie a
group of twenty-something guys were exiting ahead of us and one of the
guys
said, "that was pretty excellent!"  I thought, "Well, I guess it's working
for its demographic."  I think the thing that bothered me most was that
there were some cool possibilities that didn't pan out. I really liked
"Bound" a lot and was heartily disappointed by this sharp looking but
ultimately pointless movie.

******
21 December 2001
1

This is a big load of incomprehendable sci fi crap, that you will have to
watch twice just to understand. It is like a painful x-men comic, but
worse.
The characters, plotting and other such attrocities are a joke, and this is
the kind of film that belongs in the rubbish dump!
This film should have been forgotten, just your regular crappy si fi, but
somehow, it became a classic. Just goes to show, pretty special effects
make
a successful movie....


******
10 October 1999
1

Is it just me, or are all the people who love this movie unable to
ARTICULATE why?  Words like "cool" and "it ROCKS" hardly qualify a movie
as
being good.  I would sooner take poison than take movie-going advice from
people who use words like "trippy" and "bogus" to recommend a
film.If you like the Matrix, great.  But please try to articulate WHY you like
it, instead of lambasting those of us who DIDN'T.  WE have made VALID
points... not defensive insults.Peace out, and keep on rockin' dudes.(that was sarcasm by the way)

******
14 January 2001
1

In mu honest opinion, The matrix is a poor film.The film is just a chance to show off modern special effects. It appears to
me that they decided to forget about the story. Also I believe that Keanu
Reeves was a terrible choice to play Neo. It didn't help that his charactor
was a 1 dimensional cardboard cutout.


******
3 February 2002
1

What has happened to Keanu Reeves? If, for some reason, you like Keanu,
watch Speed, or the Bill and Ted movies. Not this garbage. What does this
movie offer? Special Effects, that's it. I've seen better storylines in
porno movies and videogames. I usually enjoy Sci-fi flicks, but not this
one. Sci-Fi flicks are supposed to make you think, they're supposed to give
you a psychological thrill, but this just makes you wonder how anyone could
like it.


******
8 September 2001
1

This was......without a doubt, the absolute worst film ever created for
movie going public in the history of the world!.....just riddled with
continuitty errors and a senseless plot that some people belive is a
reality!0/10

******
18 April 1999
1

This movie had great effects and camera angles.  Definitely not a movie
for
anyone who suffers from nightmares!Extremely thin and disjointed plot for a sci-fi flick.  It reminded me of
late '60s and early '70s "stream of consciousness" movies.  It probably
would help to be stoned on something before entering the
theater.All this combined made for a way too long and way too boring evening out.
But it will do fine for the "what you see is what you get" crowd.  Leave
your I.Q. at home.

******
18 August 2005
1
Absolutely by far the most worst movie I have ever tried to watch....
And I have to admit: I couldn't bare it any longer, I stopped watching
it way before the end. How totally unrealistic the scenario was, with
people, objects, bullets and other stuff flying around in slow motion,
with things going on in his head and also not, at the same time. Make
up your mind, I would say. It made watching this thing very very
boring, enough to switch to an ordinary program on TV. I realize, I am
most probably one of the exceptions on liking this movie or not, but
I'm amazed that this movie is not in the Top 10 of Worst Movies ever.
Oke, It's all a matter of opinion and taste.

******
22 September 2004
1

- cheap philosophy - "cool" heroes - cheap plotSimply a movie for the current audience longing for action, "cool"
sayings and an easy to follow plot. What else can I say? The
philosophy,most people who rate this movie good seem to credit, is the
same one will think through while laying on grass staring at the stars
being totally p***ed. But who wonders about todays youth being deeply
impressed by something like that...One last question for the neverbelievers out there... Who tells you the
real world Neo escapes to from the Matrix isn't just another Matrix? ;)


******
10 May 2004
1

This movie is a complete let down.
I thought there was going to be some depth to it or at least some good
acting or something.
Sure the special effects were "neat" but thats all.
I dont recommend this movie to anyone and am ashamed to even admit i ever
saw it.
Thank god the sequel is better though so there is light for this pathetic
movie.
um i cant even think of anything else to write about becuase this movie is
so bad.* out of ****

******
19 July 2002
1

This movie is nothing special.
The effects are crap.
The acting is Crap.
Reeves is one of the worst actors I have ever seen.
WHY 2 SEQUELS????
I thankfully missed this awful movie at the theaters and sadly saw it on
video.
I began watching this movie with high hopes and I was sorley
dissapointed.
What is the point???????????????????????
Saying that humanity is a computer generated life style.
What kind of an idea is that???
It kind of ruins the way that you look at life!!!!!!!!!
The soundtrack sucks and so does the cheap special effects!!!!
This movie is almost as bad as The Godfather.
The thing these 2 movies have in common is that they both suck and are
over
rated beyond belief.
WHAT IS SO GREAT ABOUT THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
My answer is nothing.
If you want a good movie look at the Spiebergs and the Lucas and the
Camerons.
Lets not forget truley good movies of Baz Luhrmann and Tim
Burton.
Think about it people this movie is CRAP!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Why are so many people into this movie???
It not so good!!!


******
13 February 2002
1

This movie SUCKED.  It S U C K E D!.  We're talking down there with The Crow
and CHUD.  The acting was horrible (Reeves and Fishburne -enough said).  The
story was stupid.  More than that, the reality it was based on would be
metaphysically impossible as it violates the time-space continuum.Watching
this waste of time made me wish someone else were in my space at the
theater.Yeah, it has special effects... big deal.  SE doesn't make a movie and
should never be the high point. It also has the pseudo martial arts flying
around the room crud that so many movies unfortunately use
today.In short, The Matrix was the Titanic of SciFi -lots of glitz with absolutely
no substance.

******
4 September 2001
1

What kind of movie was this....... It was really stupid... It had a snow
white ending... and the movie has a dumb story to it. I much prefer
SwordFish over the Matrix! The Matrix had truly Hollywood actors in it,
which could not act. There was no point to this movie.. it was a waste of
time.

******
6 March 2003
1

This is a disorganized mess on the order of Pulp Fiction: I thought the
reels were in the wrong order, and I had a videotape!  Internally
inconsistent, horribly overacted, special-effects blinded, the whole thing
is an excuse for the tired "man against machine" plot.Cool special effects cannot save everything, and even a stellar actor can't
if given a rotten script.  This is a few hours of my life I want
back!

******
14 January 2001
1

In mu honest opinion, The matrix is a poor film.The film is just a chance to show off modern special effects. It appears to
me that they decided to forget about the story. Also I believe that Keanu
Reeves was a terrible choice to play Neo. It didn't help that his charactor
was a 1 dimensional cardboard cutout.


******
2 April 1999
1

And boring.  And needlessly confusing.  Leave it Larry Fishburne to make
Keanu Reeves look good.  It's always great to see a potentially good actor
follow up such stinkers as Hoodlum and the god-awful Event Horizon with a
movie that can dig him out of a craphole.  Too bad this wasn't that movie.
And what about Keanu, you ask?  Well he's good.  Especially when his mouth
disappears.  And credit those Bound brothers, for giving him as few lines
as
possible.  Unfortunately, they didn't seem to do fit with Fishburne.  And,
by the way, when are bad guys gonna be something besides guys in black
suits
and black shades?  When is a special effects movie going to be made that
has
a decent story?  When are American filmmakers going to stop copying John
Woo?  Does he really deserve to be copied so much in the first place?
Finding these answers maybe like finding a reason to watch this movie
again:
Impossible.

******
22 January 2004
1

The Matrix is perhaps the most overrated movie i have ever seen, it doesnt
offer anything but... Overwrited or other manner bad and comic dialog.
Amusing armchair amateur philosophy that makes me laugh! Boring, overcool,
unintentional-comic and baffled looking kung fu fights and shooting scenes
with stupid looking slowmotions. Also a lot of clichés and scenes that are
copied from other movies. I give The Matrix 1/10 and it deserves its 100%.
Dont ever watch this movie, its waste of time and maybe waste of money if
you rent it or go to cinema to see it!

******
1 February 2003
1

If you've ever heard a diehard Matrix fan talk about this movie, you can
really begin to understand what "hype" is.There's no doubt I enjoyed the movie. It's very entertaining. But as far as
it having all these levels of meaning, in being ground-breaking in anything
other than the interesting "bullet time" camera work? It wasn't
here.The Wachowski brothers are more or less just very good hacks. They took the
main plot directly out of Terminator and gave it a virtual reality twist and
a techno sound-track. They even stole the idea of having a blue tinge to
everything, then when they realised that was too obvious they changed it to
green.The acting is somewhat of a let down, but it can be overlooked considering
the nature of the film. It isn't meant to be high drama after all. Generally
it is poor, especially from Keanu Reeves and Carrie Ann Moss. Their
characters don't really require a lot of acting ability, but they still
manage to seem wooden and unconvincing for the most part. This isn't helped
by the poor dialogue throughout.There are some good performances though, particularly Hugo Weaving and Joe
Palantino. Fishbourne was OK, but the rest of the cast don't deserve a
mention - except for Marcus Chong, not for his acting, but for his real life
career ending stupidity in getting kicked off the sequels by demanding equal
billing in them. Considering his character was probably the most expendable
that wasn't very smart.Another let down was the tacky "love story". If you thought Episode II had a
stupid, nonsensical romantic element, it's nothing compared to The Matrix.
Trinity more or less "falls in love" with Neo because a) he's good looking
and b) lack of other options.One other thing I didn't really like was the lead in to the story. The first
half hour or so is spent trying to convince the audience "this is going to
be so cool, and meaningful, and deep, we are really on to something special
here" and when you have time to look back on it, this self hype to the main
plot was poorly executed and cheapens the film a lot. A movie shouldn't
insult its audience by trying to tell them what to think of it before it
gets anywhere.Other than that this is enjoyable movie, which becomes sillier the more
seriously you take it. So enjoy it for what it is, a brainless sci-fi
special effects vehicle.

******
18 August 2005
10
There seems to be a concentrated effort to pull this film out of the
top 250 ranking list by people rebelling against the success of this
film. Time for a little perspective.*** Possible Spoilers *** The reason this film deserves to be in the
top 250 is because it is a strong science fiction film, with very few
plot holes; is well cast and acted; has stunning effects, and is
beautifully shot and scored. I've seen comments where people slag this
film heavily - claiming that machines using people as a power-source is
unrealistic, but recommend films like T2 (a good film BTW), or Superman
(not-so-good), or Star Wars (varies in rating depending on which
episode). I can't understand why someone thinks it's realistic when
spaceships break laws of physics by traveling faster than light, or
beings from another world who happen to look just like us have X-ray
eyes and can fly, or killer-robots from the future travel through time
to eliminate a future threat; but machines can't enslave humans to
their own purpose. That is simply an attempt to justify an nonobjective
view. Does that mean I believe humans could be used as a power source?
No - but within the context of the film it works.Yes, there is a blending of genres and styles within this film. Yes,
the philosophical questions that it raises have been raised before.
Yes, there is a tie to religious ideology. But THIS particular blending
is unique. I will never forget the awe and excitement I felt the first
time I saw this film when Neo awoke in his little pod - it made me feel
the same way I felt when I was 10 and saw Star Wars for the first time.
THAT is the magic of this movie - it allowed me to believe that there
was hope for the industry after all.Final notes: The script is very tight - Plot is well revealed, and the
dialogue is natural. The cinematography is superb - probably the most
beautifully shot film I've ever witnessed. Every still, every frame is
a masterpiece. The special effects are seamless, and do not overwhelm
the viewer or shatter the story or plot. The musical score is
remarkable, and the seamless blend of the score, the story, and the
various industrial/electronica songs meld perfectly together. The
acting by all parties was believable - with special kudos to Keanu for
underplaying the role; to Lawrence for being the anchor of the tale; to
Hugo for being a truly machine-like villain; to Joe for being a
believable turncoat with realistic motives; to Carrie-Ann for being a
strong female role; and to the departed Gloria for injecting a sense of
the surreal with class and humour. Lastly, a huzzah for the Wachowski
brothers for putting the whole package together to create one of the
finest films ever put to celluloid.I cannot recommend this film enough.

******
19 April 1999
1

"The Matrix" is utter nonsense and total
stupidity.  An incredible hodgepodge of all
the mindless Spielberg-Lucas epics, James
Bond gadgetries, Kubrick effects, plus
about 75 years of cheepie-to-high budgeted
action/sci-fi/thriller flicks distilled
into one vat. Throw in the latest
computer-styled technological inventions
for good measure.  And finally add a pinch
of philosophical jargon, just to give it
an illusion of substance, stir well and --
there it is: a product that can well be
labeled, "Warning: enter this movie at your
own mental health risk."

******
15 January 2009
2
I had seen all three Matrix movies and my first thought while seeing
Dark City, was how shockingly similar DC is to the Matrix series. I
wondered for a brief moment if the creators of the Matrix and DC were
the same, then I just figured that the Matrix stole the idea and
created an overly long, overly hyped 3 part yawner out of it. For that
is all the Matrix is compared to DC...one giant Yawn!! I mean they
tried so hard to make a bigger, better and more complex version of DC
and all they accomplished was a weak and glitzy imitation. You don't
need 6 hours and gratuitous amounts of trickery to tell this story. DC
told the same story, in a much more interesting way, in the span of one
movie.What I find hilarious is that most people believe that the Matrix was a
truly original and mind blowing concept...the world we live in is fake,
run by machines in some twisted quest for self preservation. DC started
it, the world we live in is fake, run by beings in some twisted quest
for understanding and self preservation....Neo was the chosen one,
holding power over the machines...John was the chosen one, holding
power over the evil beings....C'mon people wake up and smell the
Goldfish!

******
28 May 1999
1

This movie is the biggest piece of crap I've seen in years.  It is
horrible
on all levels; plot and dialog mainly.  You'll understand if you watch it
and hear lines like "It's my way or the highway".  The writers did have a
good idea with a storyline involving a world in which humans are kept
captive by a computer  through real-time simulations, but they completely
blew it from there.

******
5 May 2003
4

I saw the "famous" Matrix 3 years ago, after all the hype, I waited for
the
video. I wasn't like "Oh, I know this is going to suck." I had an open
mind.
I do like this movie for one reason, it made me realize: MY GENERATION
RELYS
ON COMPUTER EFFECTS?!?!?!!?!?!?!!??! There is practically no plot, crumie
acting(except for Morphious), all effects, and just an excuse for computer
nerds to get together for this crap.I mean, Spiderman I could deal somewhat, but man. This was nothing. All
the
actors got in front of a green screne and the director is like "Ok,
pretend
that something scary is coming at you!" Wow, what motivation. I got really
bored, tried watching it (going on 5) again, nothing. I can't get it, and
I
wish Keanu the best of luck. Because I hope the sequal will have more
luck.4/10

******
18 September 2003
5

Launched in 1999 and one of the most successful movies of the year, "Matrix"
is an amazing movie. It ranks among the movies that leave the spectator
bemused, even after several projections.In a way, it's very similar to Paul Verhoeven's movie "Total Recall" (1990).
The two movies have got a complicated but mesmerizing screenplay, astounding
special effects and especially, a main character with two faces: Keanu
Reeves. It means that at the beginning of the movie, he's introduced as
someone who leads a peaceful but common life. But an unexpected event will
transform his life and make him a hero."Matrix" is also a very well stable movie that you can divide in two parts:
the first one mainly focuses on long dialogs sequences that incline to
reflection while the second one honors stunning action
sequences.A remarkable performance crowns it all and Keanu Reeves finds here his best
role to date. The sole weakness of the movie is the love affair between
Reeves and Laurence Fishburne. The Wachowski brothers felt compelled to
include this, maybe to give their movie, a Hollywood nature.An awesome science-fiction film that easily ranks among the best movies of
the nineties.

******
14 October 2012
4
OK I seem to be the only person in the world who doesn't like this
movie. Maybe its just my opinion but keanu reeves is one of the worst
actors in Hollywood. Everyone second he is on screen I feel like taking
a bullet to my brain. The story line was all over the place and the
action was lame.Lawrence fishbourne did a good job but like I said keeanu is just too
bad. He shows no emotion in his words he is like a wooden robot just
saying things. I don't know how he continues to get work in movies it
absolutely blows my mind. The whole time I spent wishing he would
die...He never did....

******
4 March 2009
4
Glorified martial arts movie masquerading as a science-fiction
thriller, this blockbuster hit struck a nerve with the public, though
it isn't as brainy (or as deep) as one might be led to believe. Keanu
Reeves is typically one-note as a computer-hacking loner who finds his
life may not be reality--and that an alternate reality introduced to
him by guru Laurence Fishburne could destroy him. Written and directed
by the Wachowski brothers, who seem to enjoy a twisting story--though
at the expense of logic (forget credibility). A more engaging leading
man might have made the technical asides easier to wade through,
although most audiences didn't seem to mind. Followed by "The Matrix
Reloaded" and "The Matrix Revolutions", both in 2003. *1/2 from ****

******
23 June 2005
10
From writers, producers and director Andy and Larry Wachowski, aka The
Wachowski Brothers (Bound) this was, and still is a milestone with
imagination and digital effects technology. Basically Thomas Anderson
(Speed's Keanu Reeves) lives an ordinary life as a computer programmer
by day, and by night as a malevolent hacker known as Neo. Then one day
he finds himself warned by Trinity (Memento's Carrie-Anne Moss) and
chased by police and agents. Thomas has always questioned the reality
he lives in, but when he eventually meets like-minded Rebel warrior
Morpheus (Boyz n the Hood's Laurence Fishburne) the truth is revealed
far beyond his imagination. Morpheus tells him he has been living in
the artificial reality world of The Matrix, basically everything we
see, hear, feel etc is a big program, and the human race are all
slaves. Anyway, Thomas, now mainly known as Neo is woken into the real
world, a ravaged wasteland with most of humanity captured by the race
of machines that live off their body heat and imprison their minds in
The Matrix. Neo is taught all about The Matrix, the real world and more
importantly trains him to go back into The Matrix to battle with the
agents, including leader Agent Smith (The Lord of the Rings' Hugo
Weaving), who are super powerful computer programs dedicated to
snuffing out Neo and the entire human rebellion. The Oracle (Gloria
Foster) at one point in the film told Neo he was not "The One" like
Morpheus says, but of course this was to boost his confidence to make
him believe more, and confirm that he actually is. Also starring
Memento's Joe Pantoliano as Cypher, Belinda McClory as Switch, Julian
Arahanga as Apoc, Matt Doran as Mouse, Marcus Chong as Tank, Paul
Goddard as Agent Brown, Robert Taylor as Agent Jones and Anthony Ray
Parker as Dozer. The action and stunts are fantastic, the actors are
all well cast, the use of colour (to remind you where you are
particularly) is impressive, it is just an unmissable action thriller
film for science-fiction fans. It won the Oscars for Best Editing, Best
Sound Effects Editing, Best Visual Effects and Best Sound, and it won
the BAFTAs for Best Special Visual Effects and Best Sound, and it was
nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Editing and Best Production
Design. It was number 66 on 100 Years, 100 Thrills, and it was number
15 on The 100 Greatest Films. Outstanding!

******
28 October 2003
7

THE MATRIX is a good film , without doubt the greatest film featuring the
sub genre of cyberpunk , but it`s film whose reputation is mainly built upon
having a very clever premise more than anything else . I remember being
absolutely stunned at the revelation of the plot , but  when I saw it for a
second time at the weekend on channel 5 ( First time I saw it was about
three years ago ) I was slightly bored by the film . It`s by no means a
boring film , it`s just that once you know how the plot twists , turns and
sometimes boggles the mind the revelations don`t have the same effect second
time around . THE MATRIX hasn`t been helped either by the amount of
spoofs/rip offs featuring the scenes where the action stops , the frame
freezes , the camera turns 360 degrees and then the action starts again .
These scenes were jaw dropping at the time but have now been done by
countless ads , pop videos and other movies it`s become impossible now to
remember the impact this cinematography technique had at the time . I also
think the producers of THE MATRIX haven`t done themselves any favours by
turning THE MATRIX into a franchise To sum up this is a good film . Like me you`ll certainly enjoy it first time
you watch it but unlike say MEMENTO ( Note the cast connections between the
two movies ? ) THE MATRIX doesn`t reward the audience with repeat viewings
and at the end of the day the not too dissimilar TOTAL RECALL is probably a
more enjoyable film     

