******
28 August 2004
10

I've seen way too many thrillers. You name it: "Identity", "Seven", "The
Usual Suspects", etc., etc., etc. I remember my friend being so obsessed
with "Silence of the Lambs", that it drove me crazy. And I hated the movie
naturally and refused to see it. But everyone told me that I have to see
this, so I let my guard down. And had an open mind, and I'm glad I did. My
friend was right, this is a great movie. It is so well acted, I couldn't
even describe. I loved "Silence of the Lambs" and would recommend it to
anyone. It's creepy and exciting. Trust me, you'll love
it.10/10

******
22 October 2005
10
The Silence of the Lambs runs two hours.Anthony Hopkins appears for
little more than sixteen minutes, yet during those minutes he hasn't
bored you for a second, not even after the tenth or eleventh viewing.
Such is the power of his performance, it's absolutely impossible to
forget him.His character, Dr.Hannibal"The Cannibal" Lecter, is a brutal
killer with revolting methods and habits, but he's also very
intelligent, charismatic and with good taste(you can interpret that as
you like).A clichè by now, but who cares? He still is one of the key
elements in this wonderful thriller, which sees Jodie Foster's Clarice
Starling asking for Lecter's help to catch another killer.The result is
a dangerous yet fascinating relationship between the young,
unexperienced FBI-agent and the convicted,but basically omnipotent,
psychiatrist.He's a step ahead of everyone all the time, and makes sure
everyone notices, with his witty, unforgettable one-liners.If there had
to be only one reason to worship this movie, then it would have to be
the chemistry between the two leading actors.Never before has a
non-sexual man/woman connection been more thrilling.Never before has a
film's ending been more unsettling and brilliant and left us asking for
more.Best watched with a nice Chianti...P.S. dear film-buffs, have the lambs stopped screaming?

******
17 January 2007
10
I'll never forget my first viewing of this movie at the theater and
will always look back fondly on it for one reason: helping me quit
smoking cigarettes.I read the book first, was fascinated by it, and couldn't wait for the
film to come out. That was the day I picked to quit smoking and I knew
this movie would take my mind off that matter. I was expecting an
intense movie and I got it. Little did I realize how well-received this
film would be and how it propelled Anthony Hopkins to super-stardom.Although entertaining, this is not always a fun movie to watch,
especially with the scenes with Ted Levine who plays the killer,
"Buffalo Bill." "Bill" and his kidnapped young woman are sick and
profane people, respectively, and their scenes are very unpleasant.
This movie is not for the squeamish with those and other scenes
involving the infamous Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins). There also is
some extreme crudeness in the jail/dungeon where Lecter and other
inmates are held.Jodie Foster is excellent as the FBI agent "Clarice Starling" and Scott
Glenn is low-key and effective as "Jack Crawford." A major part of the
film is psychological more than violent as Lecter constantly taunts
"Clarice," while she tries her best to manipulate him to help with a
case. The by-play between the two is a game in itself.Hopkins, however, is the actor people remember best from this movie.
His portrayal of the refined-yet-cannibalistic serial killer-doctor is
one viewers will never forget. I've enjoyed watching him in the
sequels, too. The looks on his face, his fascinating vocabulary with
intelligent sarcasm and frankness, never ceases to entertain."Silence Of The Lambs" has turned into a modern-day "classic." If by
some odd chance you have never seen this movie, be warned it is a dark,
difficult story to watch at times....but it will get your mind off
other things.

******
16 November 2005
10
STAR RATING: ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little
Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits Rookie FBI agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is assigned to get
into the mind of notorious incarcerated serial killer Dr Hannibal 'the
Cannibal' Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) to get his evaluation on the elusive
Buffalo Bill, a serial killer who's been abducting and killing young
women. When a prominent senator's daughter is kidnapped, it becomes a
race against time to find her before she is killed and all the while
Lecter is playing mind-games with Starling as well as any help he can
provide...The first of Thomas Harris's Hannibal novels to be adapted for the
screen, only to be followed some years later with some very lacklustre
(but inevitable!) follow-ups, despite it's age this remains one of the
most effective chillers of modern times. Despite the mainstream appeal
of the film, the grainy lighting and laid-back budget give it an
art-house feel that sets it apart from other such films that were as
successful. The film manages some effectively disturbing scenes that
make it a not altogether pleasant viewing experience.Performances wise, in a very early role, a young Foster shows her
promise for future roles, with a gripping portrayal of naivety and
vulnerability here that is very compelling and convincing, even though
there are some plausibility problems with someone as junior as her
being assigned to do something like that. Hopkins too is brilliant as
Lecter, playing a dangerous man behind bars who's ability to get inside
your head and see the things you don't want him to see makes him no
less dangerous, if not more so, than if he was on the outside. He's
certainly received the most acclaim for his role over the years, but in
my humble opinion, he's actually over-shadowed (though only slightly!)
by Ted Levine as Buffalo Bill, a truly extraordinary psychopath with an
unsettling sexuality disorder that is probably one of the nastiest
things ever to be seen in such a mainstream film. As supporting FBI
agent Crawford, Scott Glenn is impressive but sort of just faded into
DTV land after this film.It's easily one of the most popular films ever made, so it's likely a
lot of you are familiar with it already, but with reviews on the
so-inferior follow-up films Red Dragon and Hannibal, I thought it only
right that I'd finally give this first film a mention. Truly
remarkable. *****

******
11 August 2006
10
It is a creepy and taken-by-storm experience with the film, background
music is darker than the film itself and too ominous, plot is
brilliantly constructed, conversations are thought-provocative, to
crown the whole, Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkin are the cream. They
take ownership of Clarice and Hannibal respectively, transforming them
into the most unforgettable screen images.The psychological path of Hannibal is hard to trace. He is so odd a
mixture of intelligence, cruelty, insanity, grace and charisma. In the
depth, fledgling FBI trainee Clarice is no match of him. She is still
naive yet very ambitious. On the trail of the serial killer Buffalo
Bill, she's sent to interview him, a psychiatrist-turned-cannibal.
Hannibal is willing to provide clues to finding the killer but only in
return for personal information about Clarice herself. He calls it Quid
Pro Quo. In those mind games, the two dance backward and forward
between cannibal and FBI agent, mentor and student, psychiatrist and
patient, father and daughter. It is Clarice who breathes life into the
multidimensional sophisticated psychopath and Hannibal who nudges the
aspiring student FBI agent and helps her achieve her first success in a
world of Y chromosome where her guru Crawford uses her, embarrasses
her, excludes her; Doctor Chilton regards her no more than a
simple-minded woman and tries to flirt with her. Frankly speaking,
though no lack of other impressive scenes, it's really the nerves
fights between Hannibal and Clarice that carries the film.Some of the horrible scenes involve Buffalo Bill who, a transvestite,
skins his victims, especially woman victims. But the most terrifying
one is Clarice's single-handed trace in Buffalo Bill's gruesome den,
which also has become another irony to the self-important
testosterone-dominated world. Crawford's misjudgment and stubbornness
makes him out of the right track, a special anti-terror deployment
resulting in vain. But Clarice, though excluded from the business which
she should be on, still holds onto her intuition and through
on-the-spot investigation finds the serial killer at last. She has to
take on him herself. (Demme uses "deceptive cutting" there to enhance
the tension.) It is definitely a life-or-death fight, especially when
Clarice is in the dark, groping her way in absolute terror. I have no
doubt everyone holds the breath when the film rolls to that part.A gripping film that well deserved its Oscars

******
17 July 2005
10
There is little doubt that the most memorable aspect of The Silence of
the Lambs is Anthony Hopkins' incomparable performance as Lecter.
Taking over for Brian Cox, who was effective, but not especially
memorable, as the good doctor in 1986's Manhunter, Hopkins instantly
makes the role his own, capturing and conveying the charismatic essence
of pure evil. To his dying day, no matter how many roles he plays in
the interim, Hopkins will forever be known for this part. (It is a
credit to Hopkins' ability as an actor that this part did not result in
stereotyping. His post-Silence career has been greatly varied, with
roles as widely diverse as a stodgy butler in Merchant-Ivory's The
Remains of the Day and an action hero in The Edge.) I can throw out any
number of superlatives, but none of them do justice to this chilling
performance, which I labeled as the best acting work of the '90s. Want
to feel the icy fingers of terror stroke your heart? Watch this mixture
of brilliant eloquence and inhuman cruelty. As portrayed by Hopkins,
Hannibal is both a suave, cultured gentleman and an unspeakable fiend.
He is gracious and monstrous at the same time. (Hopkins also provided
one of the most quotable lines in recent film history with "I ate his
liver with some fava beans and a nice Chianti", which was followed by
an inimitable slithering slurp.)

******
24 April 2009
10
Silence of the Lambs is a quintessence of a profound character study
and a rare and vivid demonstration of an actor's subtle brilliance and
his improvisation in manifestation of a nebulous entity (Lecter),
almost single-handedly immortalizing it and in the process elevating
himself to a position of unqualified envy and ubiquitous acclaim. In
fact, one is likely to suffer, either from inarticulacy or verbosity
while describing Anthony Hopkins portrayal of sadistically
sophisticated Dr. Hannibal Lecter. Lecter's trademark, his wide open
glacial eyes, devoid of any emotion, not only makes him deviously
equanimous, but also egregiously peculiar. The fast, slurping-type
sound invented by Hopkins that Lecter does, is as fascinating as it is
chilling and Lecter's infamous "Good evening, Clarice", is as
enthralling as it is vicious. Anthony Hopkins's performance is the
shortest ever and the most memorable to win an Oscar in the leading
category. Hopkins as Lecter, is incontrovertibly and incredibly at the top of his
game and it is his brilliance that gets the best out of the other
actors, especially Jodie Foster. In fact, it won't be a hyperbole, that
Anthony Hopkins's portrayal of cannibalistic Hannibal Lecter in Silence
of the Lambs and more so in its sequel, Hannibal (which is my favorite
of the series, as the story completely revolves around Lecter, giving
him more exposure), is one of the best, the world of cinema has ever
seen or offered. In spite of having some of the most gruesomely
disturbing and viciously graphic sequences, Silence of the Lambs, is
one of the most decorated and enthralling movies of all time. A must
watch for avid fans and eclectic viewers.http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/

******
8 October 2013
10
Once upon a crime, Hannibal Lecter was a manipulative psycho-killer
compensating for his incarceration by messing with people's minds. Then
Hannibal happened and he suddenly turned into a dandy anti-hero...
Watching The Silence Of The Lambs again really puts things into
perspective. Jonathan Demme's astute adaptation of Thomas Harris' last
good book entwines the horror and detective genres to enduringly
shocking effect, while Anthony Hopkins' Lecter and Jodie Foster's
Starling fizz up an unsettling chemistry that was utterly lacking in
the sequel.I haven't seen a movie this perfectly wrapped in a while. I recently
re-watched it and it blew me away and it only gets better the more you
see it.The performances from everyone are great. Foster sold every scene she
was in. But, of course, Hopkins stole every scene he was in and was a
powerful anti hero who was scary even when concealed because you know
his mind is working at every second. Always planning and he's rarely
wrong. His escape was an amazing scene. Levine gives a suitably scary
performance but just doesn't stand up to the greatness of Foster and
Hopkins.All the characters main characters are deep people are deep people with
clear motivations. The police officers are the complete contradiction
to this who abuse their power to do what they believe is right, and end
up being wrong. It's clever.Everything is wrapped together really well, the performances were great
and it's full of memorable scenes.I'm giving The Silence of the Lambs a 10/10.

******
27 October 2005
10
Agent Clarice Starling is a training FBI agent, hope to work in
behavioral sciences with Jack Crawford. Crawford though sends Starling
on an assignment, to psychologically exam the insanely intelligent
criminal Hannibal Lecter. Crawford had another agenda, to see if
Starling can press information out of Lecter to help with the current
case of Buffalo Bill. Bill has already killed five girls, skinning off
sections of their bodies. Lecter is intrigue by Starling and helps her
with the investigation; they start to form a strange friendship.The Silence of the Lambs is one of the best psychological thrillers.
Thomas Harris's best selling book is faithfully transfered to the
screen. It's one dark twisted disturbing ride. The mood is heighten by
Demme's great direction, with such detail in all the sets and
locations. Demme has used reflective surfaces wonderfully, during one
of Starling's and Lecter's talks it used to great extent. One of the
final sequences of Clarice walking through the basement of Bill's house
is one of the most suspense full scenes i have ever seen.All the performances are knock outs. Jodie Foster as always brings the
goods and makes Starling the most interesting to watch. At times she
makes Starling so fragile, then a second later she's strong as steel.
Anthony Hopkins is so disturbing as Lecter. From the first second you
see Lecter standing in his cell; just waiting for Starling to show, you
can see Hopkins was perfect casting. You cant keep your eyes off
Lecter, he's so disturbing and can make your skin crawl every time he
speaks. Ted Levine makes the perfect serial killer, you can see from
Levine's performance what a torn and damaged soul the killer is; you
feel somewhat sympathetic for him.The Silence of the Lambs is a must see, one of the best thrillers
you'll ever see.

******
7 November 2005
10
One of the best movies of the 90's and one of the few thrillers that
can match up with Alfred Hitckok's movies.Certainly the perfect choice
for the character of Hannibal Lekter, Sir Anthony Hopkins who manages
to make the "cannibal" a kind of hero. The film won 5 academy awards
but in my opinion it worths for more. I would like to stay more in the
performance of Anthony Hopkins that is really majestic and gives the
film more quality.Hopkins gets to the skin of his role and makes you to
feel that he is a real psycho killer.Also the direction is perfect by
Demme and makes the viewers to be absorbed by the fight of the FBI
agent Clarice Starling and Dr. Hannibal Lecter.Jodie Foster fairly wins
the Academy Award for Best Actress in Leading Role.

******
17 March 2009
6
It is really difficult for me to understand what it is about this film
that everyone loves. I have seen many thrillers and I can honestly say
that this one is not even in my Top 20. Although I think Hopkins did a
terrific job in Lecter's shoes, his 30 minutes on screen just were not
enough. This was supposed to be a horror film but I think it barely
managed to create the suspense atmosphere and it certainly did not
scare me or made me feel uncomfortable at all. Perhaps I expected more
since I have been hearing all the fuzz about this movie since I was a
little kid. So I watched this film several times and I am still not
enjoying it that much.

******
16 May 2012
10
I have been fascinated by this movie from the first time I saw it! To
me, I felt connected to agent starling, I don't know if everyone gets
the relationship between Clarice, and the most profound impact that
living with her relatives during the slaughter season of the "lambs",
had on her as a person. I think anyone that has ever experienced any
kind of abandonment, helplessness, and just feeling terror in
general,as she did, when she tried to save that one lamb; and couldn't,
well, it just makes you cry, because you see the helplessness of her
past, meeting her once again in her present!As she fought to help the
victim, she had to overcome the victim within herself, as well.I loved
Jodie Foster in this movie, and I can't pass up an opportunity to watch
it again and again!I love her dialect, her acting, and; the way that
she pulled the movie together!

******
11 May 2014
10
THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS is, quite simply, a breathtaking movie. It's
the granddaddy of all serial killer flicks, a film that even the
almost-as-good SE7EN can only aspire to, a movie that gets into the
mind and soul of a serial killer like few others. It inspired a huge
sub-genre of similar movies that came out during the 1990s and 2000s,
and it's up there with Hitchcock's PSYCHO as one of the most gripping
looks at the subject matter of all time.Where to begin? There's a pitch-perfect Jodie Foster, gradually leading
us into the depths of the storyline as the naive FBI agent, and the
oft-overlooked Ted Levine who excels as the supremely skin-crawling
Buffalo Bill. Of course, the film is dominated by Anthony Hopkins,
giving the best and most memorable performance of his career in just 16
minutes of screen time. Hopkins chills you to the bone in this, and
Jonathan Demme's direction is a perfect match for his talents.The storyline is engaging, ably mixing the criminal investigation
strands with scenes involving the killers themselves. There are gory
and monstrous set-pieces which make your flesh crawl while watching,
yet it's all rather restrained and intellectual, a surprise given the
subject matter. Most importantly, it's never less than gripping and
completely frightening. A true masterpiece of a movie.

******
30 October 2005
8
It's impossible to comment on SILENCE OF THE LAMBS as being a mere film
. Its release was a watershed in popular culture and has influenced a
myriad of imitations that are far too numerous to mention . Much of
this success is down to director Jonathan Demme who has made the film
so effective by coming up with the strikingly simple idea of filming
everything in dim lighting which gives SILENCE a moody and brooding
atmosphere that was absent from movies in the previous decade .
Ironically enough this is as typical of 90s film making as MANHUNTER
was of 80s movies . Howard Shore's score also helps the proceedings and
Jodie Foster gives a sublime nuanced performance as vulnerable heroine
Clarice Starling . Watch the scenes closely when Clarice is in the
company of men , don't you get the feeling she has a phobia about the
male of the species . Is she a victim of sexual abuse in her childhood
? A lesbian ? We never find out but Foster's performance is multi
layered and it's a pity this aspect is never explored in HANNIBAL which
sadly deletes this aspect to Clarice Sadly SILENCE was released with a tidal wave of hype which the film
doesn't live up to . Who can forget the stories that upon seeing this
at the cinema certain audience members wanted armed escorts back to
their cars ! I'm sorry but despite being a good thriller it's not that
good and I fail to see how people were turned into quivering jellies
unable to sleep with the lights off . I'm also afraid to say that much
of the awards heaped upon the film aren't that well deserved either .
Foster deserved the Oscar as did the film and possibly Demme too but
did Ted Tally for his adapted screenplay ? All he seems to have done is
to copy the best bits of Harris's novel wholesale into the screenplay
without making an effort to improve anything . and i'll probably be
accused of sacrilege but the more times I see this film the more times
I ask myself how did Hopkins win the Oscar for Best Actor ? I don't
even think Hopkins should have qualified for the Best Actor category
since the role isn't on screen long enough and his performance is
slightly hammy . Hannibal as played by Hopkins resembles something
along the lines of a paedophile rather than a serial killer who has
maimed , murdered and munched on adults . Despite having some
reservations of Brian Cox as Hannibal in MANHUNTER you do believe his
burly presence does have the physical strength to overpower his victims
, not so Hopkins I know it's very difficult , perhaps even impossible , but the best way
to enjoy this movie is to erase from your mind the fact that it's one
of only three movies to have picked up the Oscar in all five main
categories , the fact that it made headlines about being the most
terrifying film committed to celluloid , and the fact that it stands as
the 28th best movie ever on this website . It is a very good thriller
but one that is ultimately disappointing after hearing of the hype
surrounding it

******
6 December 2015
10
After watching it, i was simply stunned. It is seriously magnificent,
this film has so many awesome qualities to it. It is deep, thrilling,
full of suspense, has super interesting characters, especially,
Hannibal Lecter.Could very well be the best crime/thriller movie ever made, there
really are no movies, you could compare it to, it is unique and elegant
in a different way. Dr. Lecter(Anthony Hopkins) truly is an
unforgettable character and his conversations with inspector
Clarice(Jodie Foster) were the best thing in this movie for sure. There
is a reason Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster, both(!!!) won an Oscar
for this film, not to mention The Silence of the Lambs has 5 Oscars to
its name altogether, surely the best movie of 1991.Doesn't matter what kind of movies you are into, you will thoroughly
enjoy The Silence of the Lambs, it just has too many outstanding
qualities, that it should be impossible to dislike this and even if
there are any flaws, you will not notice them, since they get
overshadowed by the super interesting and suspense storyline.

******
3 May 2014
9
The 1991 suspense thriller, Silence of the Lambs, finds Clarice
Starling, actress Jodi Foster, as a student at the FBI academy in
Virginia. She's been chosen by her instructor, actor Lawrence Bonney,
due to her noticeable keen senses, to visit with Dr. Hannibal Lecter,
actor Anthony Hopkins, an incarcerated murderer. The intention is that
Starling can use Lecter's insight into the mind of a murderer to find
Buffalo Bill, actor Ted Levine, a serial killer whose victims are young
girls.The theme of this film is control or power. In the film Clarice
Starling is controlled by her drive to succeed as an FBI agent. She
also has not found the power to control her memories of her childhood
and the screaming of the lambs, which through her dealings with Dr.
Lector she realizes. Ironically Dr. Lector himself, through his ability
to manipulate minds, is perfectly able to control any and all
situations; even through his incarceration has the power to affect
others. Buffalo Bill on the other hand believes himself to be a
transsexual and had been turned down for sex change surgeries from all
major hospitals in the area. Therefore, his only way to express his
control was by abducting young girls and murdering them and using their
skin to create a woman's body. Ironically enough there is a pattern
here. The majority of the power and control struggles are between
Clarice and the men throughout her life and the story line, and with
Buffalo Bill and his sexuality, and the young girls that he kills. The lighting and the angles used in the basement scene where Agent
Starling was in the home of Buffalo Bill attempting to arrest him also
aided to the theme of control. Buffalo Bill had shut off the lighting
to the basement, leaving Starling unable to see a thing. Consequently,
Buffalo Bill had on night goggles and was able to see every move
Starling made. A terrified Starling scrambled around the basement,
although blinded, searching for Bill. Finally, the simple sound of the
trigger of Bill's gun being pulled back was all it took for Starling to
locate bill and shoot the deadly shots that ended his terror (Bloch
1960). The overall lighting of the scenes throughout the film also
aided to the theme of control. Early on the scenes tend to be more dark
and dismal, but it seemed as though as Clarice gained more control, by
having increased confidence, more insight, more acknowledgment from
Crawford, and more trust from Lector, and got closer to solving the
crime, the lighting itself became brighter throughout. The plot of the movie is to find a missing girl in West Virginia and to
end serial killer Buffalo Bill's rampage. Special agent Jack Crawford,
actor Scott Glenn, chose Cadet Clarice Starling for the task of
interviewing a psychotic murderer Dr. Hannibal Lector in hopes that he
could aid in the arrest of Buffalo Bill. Throughout the film Starling
runs into obstacles and snares that seem to stand in her way, however
her drive in solving the crime is stronger than those things standing
in her way. One such obstacle is Dr. Frederick Chilton, actor Anthony
Heald. Dr. Chilton is, to me, a little squeaky, weasel type character.
He is out for self gain only and is trying to use Lector and his
knowledge for his own benefit. Ultimately, Dr. Chilton met his doom in
the end of the film by none other than Dr. Lector himself. After a
botched attempt, at the direction of Jack Crawford, to find the most
recent missing girl, Crawford and Starling were not permitted to speak
to Lecter further. However that did not stop her from attempting to
find and speak to him in attempt to find the killer. Although the male
FBI agents had their leads, Starling had her own, and she was the one
that ultimately solved the case.I can compare the theme of control and power of this film to that of
Alfred Hitchcock's film Psycho. This film also has heavy displays of
gender and power. The circumstances that stand out to me most are that
of mental illness displayed in both films, the way that Norman Bates
and Buffalo Bill have similar conflicts and are somewhat trapped in
their roles and act out in a sinister way. There is one particular
scene that I recall that immediately brought to mind the comparison of
the two films. The scene where they were reviewing pictures of some of
Buffalo Bill's victims showed a young girl lying face down, naked. Her
eyes were wide open (Bloch 1960), and as they showed a close up of that
picture I instantly saw the shower scene where Janet Lee lay on the
bathroom floor, eyes wide open, and the shower water running (Bloch,
1960).Overall, I rate this movie very high. The suspense thriller allows the
viewer to enter into the minds of Agent Starling, Hannibal Lecter and
Buffalo Bill. It exhibits the affects of control and power, be it
strong and weak, psychologically stable or unstable, educated or
uneducated, male or female. Silence of the Lambs, takes us on an
emotional ride of disbelief and terror as we see the story unfold.

******
15 May 2013
9
The acting is of a very high level. Foster put down a good role as
Clarice Starling and the supporting cast was very good (think of
Buffalo Bill, for example). The star of the show is Anthony Hopkins.
The role he put down here is really nothing less than genius. The dude
is perfectly cast and is both friendly and polite, and very creepy and
smart about it. I think it's an incredibly and fascinating character.
Hannibal is for me one of the best psychopaths I've ever seen in a
movie.Overall I highly recommend this movie if you love thrillers and
detectives because this is definitely one of the best in its category
for me. And i think this movie is also in my top 10 films!!

******
27 December 2012
9
This is deservedly one of the most popular and praised of all the
entries in the worn-out "cop vs. killer" genre, and represents a career
high point for its key participants. It's especially noteworthy that it
should have swept the five major Oscars for the year of its release,
considering that the Academy wouldn't normally award such acclaim to a
thriller with often grim and disturbing content - a tribute to how well
crafted it is. Also worthy of a mention is the way that this film put
the Behavioural Sciences unit of the FBI on the map - that unit devoted
to the study of the most deviant "human" beings among us. Director
Jonathan Demme shows a great skill for the genre, and with the
assistance of a first rate crew creates some eerily effective suspense.
Based on the novel by Thomas Harris, it stars Jodie Foster as an eager
beaver young FBI trainee who is sent by her superior (Scott Glenn) to
interview an imprisoned murderer, the intelligent, cultured psychopath
Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), in the hopes that he
can lend his insight into the activities of "Buffalo Bill" (Ted
Levine), a serial killer currently on the loose. Other than a music
score by Howard Shore that is a little *too* over the top and
manipulative, "The Silence of the Lambs" hits all the right notes,
telling a story in a taut and convincing manner. The subject matter
admittedly is not to every taste - especially when one thinks about
what Bills' ultimate plan is. The editing (by Craig McKay), production
design (by Kristi Zea), and cinematography (by Tak Fujimoto) are
exemplary; among the scariest scenes are Clarices' (Foster) search of a
storage space, and the climactic action where agent and maniac are
finally face to face (and the sequence leading up to that). Of course,
the real meat of the story is the unusual relationship between the
charismatic Lecter and the determined Clarice, as he demands she
divulge personal information in return for his thoughts on the Buffalo
Bill case. Lecter is a truly memorable character, from his choice of
entertainment to the way that he gleefully toys with those people that
he holds in contempt. Hopkins and Foster are both very effective in
these parts, although the contributions of the supporting cast
absolutely should not go overlooked. Given the way that Lecter
dominates the proceedings, it's important to point out just how
extremely creepy Bill is; his performance brought character actor
Levine to real prominence. Brooke Smith is very good portraying a
would-be victim who actually tries to use her wits and fight back in
some way. Also appearing are many other familiar faces: Anthony Heald
(as the smarmy jerk in charge of the insane asylum), Diane Baker, Kasi
Lemmons, Demme regulars Charles Napier and Tracey Walter, his old
mentor Roger Corman (as the director of the FBI), Frankie Faison, Dan
Butler, Chris Isaak, and Daniel von Bargen. Even at just under two
hours long, this is actually pretty taut in terms of pacing; there's no
filler at all, just some very potent entertainment. This was preceded
by another Harris adaptation, "Manhunter", in which Brian Cox played
Lecter, and would be followed by "Hannibal" and, after that, "Red
Dragon", another film version of the source novel for "Manhunter". Some
people tend to prefer "Manhunter" and consider it superior; this viewer
merely prefers to think that they each have their own heavy assets.
Nine out of 10.

******
28 December 2007
9
The late Gene Siskel hated "The Silence of the Lambs," thinking of it
as being far too gruesome and distasteful and as having zero
originality to it. Roger Ebert gave the 3.5 out of 4 stars, saying that
he did enjoy the film but that some scenes were lacking, such as the
ending.Siskel missed the point. The chill from "The Silence of the Lambs"
doesn't come from revolutionary originality, which it doesn't have. The
chill of "The Silence of the Lambs" is in how it maximizes fear and
suspense in a plot that one could simply describe as "police on the
hunt for a serial killer." It is here where "The Silence of the Lambs"
set the bar; it takes a B-movie concept and raises it to the level of a
taut A-level thriller.The plot has the FBI on the hunt for a serial killer known as "Buffalo
Bill" (played by Ted Levine). Stuck, the lead investigator (played by
Scott Glenn) wants to get the perspective of another serial killer, to
try and see inside the psychotic mind. He recruits the young FBI
trainee Clarice Starling (played by Jodie Foster) to talk to the
brilliant and cannibalistic psychiatrist Dr. Hannibal Lecter (played by
Anthony Hopkins). Lecter agrees to help Starling, but only if she will
grant him the sadistic pleasure of allowing him to see inside her mind.Even though the plot is about Buffalo Bill, with Lecter only having 16
minutes on screen in a 2-hour movie, Lecter and Starling are way more
interesting and end up being the driving force for the film. In many
films, an excellent performance by the villain can steal the show away
from the hero. (Tim Burton's "Batman," featuring a brilliant
performance by Jack Nicholson as The Joker, is a prime example of
this.) In "The Silence of the Lambs," we have strong performances by
both of the lead actors. Hopkins' Lecter is clearly everybody's
favorite character, but Foster's performance as Starling is powerful
enough to not get eclipsed by Hopkins.Not getting eclipsed is something of a theme for this film. Our heroine
is not trying to be heroic. Starling is strong and courageous and could
kick anyone's butt, and yet she comes across as vulnerable. She is a
woman in a man's world and everywhere she goes, there is a sense of
being dominated. She is 5'3" in a film where most other characters are
over 6' tall. (The camera often skillfully has Starling occupying only
the lower half of the frame; seeing so much space above her head makes
her look shorter and more vulnerable.) Her black hair (which is
different from Foster's natural light brown) makes her appear paler
than she really is. Other characters are always hitting on her. She
always whispers and is always giving a nervous smile. Even her slight
Southern accent gives her a "country girl" appeal that helps the
audience identify with her. Starling is an FBI agent-in-training and is
clearly quite skilled at handling dangerous situations, but she still
shares our vulnerabilities. As a result of this, her fears are our
fears. This is the true skill of Jodie Foster's performance; she
manages to play Starling as a woman of great strength and vulnerability
at once.Credit should also go to the film-makers. One strong point is their
choice to only be selectively gruesome. This is one key difference
between "The Silence of the Lambs" and garden-variety serial killer
movies. The latter often derive their scares by showing incredibly
brutal images and portraying utterly disgusting scenarios. Fear is
generated by the audience's own horrified reaction to what is being
shown on screen. "The Silence of the Lambs" does not give in to that
temptation though. It casually shows us several rather gruesome images
to get us nervous, but then keeps some of the most disturbing stuff
cleverly off-camera. Of course, this serves to only make them scarier;
what could be so gruesome that not even this creepy film is willing to
show it on camera? I do have criticisms. My main complaint is that Buffalo Bill is a
lightweight who left me longing for the much more interesting and
menacing Hannibal Lecter. Buffalo Bill is sick, twisted, and downright
nauseating, but he also is a coward, who has to resort to trickery and
gadgetry to make himself formidable. Lecter, on the other hand, has all
the tools he needs right there in his brain. He is the smartest
character in the film and he knows it and he loves it. He is so
charismatic that he can enter the mind of anyone, no matter how hard
they resist. This makes Lecter scary even when he is off-camera.
Buffalo Bill is not really all that scary even when he's on camera;
he's more just plain gross.The thrill of this movie is psychological. We don't feel thrilled
because of cool action sequences or original plot ideas but rather
because of the fear that we can relate to and the mind games that
Lecter plays. Something of a void is left in scenes in the latter half
of the film, where Lecter is absent. (Here, I agree with Ebert.)
Nonetheless, Foster's performance makes up for that. Even in the final
showdown with Buffalo Bill, the thrill is still there because we feel
Starling's fear, even though the audience has not been particularly
scared of Buffalo Bill up until now. (Here, I disagree with Ebert, who
feels the showdown is lacking.) "The Silence of the Lambs" is thrilling and chilling. The main villain
is a lightweight, but the secondary villain is among the most menacing
and evil in cinema history. I think that after we walk away from this
film, we somehow are left with the feeling that, at least for those 2
hours, Hannibal Lecter managed to get inside our own minds as well.

******
21 October 2005
10
"The Silence of the Lambs" will have to go down in history as one of
the most ingenious movies of all time. After a string of bizarre
murders, FBI agent-in-training Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is hired
to interview psychopath Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter (Anthony
Hopkins) to find the perpetrator. In the process, we get to learn some
very interesting things about both Starling and Lecter. The main thing
is that, despite how vile Lecter is, we can't help but admire him. And
I don't mean just because he's helping Clarice; something about the
guy, you just gotta love him.In case you're squeamish, I should remind you that this movie contains
some very ugly scenes. But don't worry, director Jonathan Demme knows
how to handle them. This masterful combination of acting, directing and
writing helped "The Silence of the Lambs" win the top five Academy
Awards, putting it in a league with only "It Happened One Night" and
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest". Watching the movie, you will agree
that the movie deserved these awards. In fact, you just might want to
have an old friend (over) for dinner.

******
2 February 2005
10
Silence of the Lambs was the birthplace of Anthony Hopkins's Hannibal
Lecter, one of the finest monsters ever screened. Although this is the
middle film in the trilogy, it was made first and remains the finest in
the set.Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is a highly intelligent, very
vulnerable young FBI trainee. With a serial killer named Buffalo Bill
increasing his body count. Clarice is sent by Jack Crawford (Scott
Glen) to attempt to gain any information that she can from Dr. Hannibal
Lecter (A brilliant, yet Insane Psyciatrist known as Hannibal the
Cannibal) Starling has to gain Lecter's trust, by engaging in very
dangerous mind games with the Doctor, and the last person you want in
your head is Hannibal Lecter, but without his help, Buffalo Bill's
victims will stand no chance.Foster and Hopkins have a very strong on screen chemistry, and both
portray their characters brilliantly, making them realistic and
believable. The Scenery matches the mood of the movie, very dark and
gloomy for much of the time, and the pockets of suspense interlaced
with some imaginative psychological horror make Silence of the Lambs a
movie that sets the standard, and the standard is high.10/10

******
16 November 2015
10
The film "The Silence of the Lambs" has changed a lot, above all, our
standards. The audience drastically changed their view of the concept
of a good thriller. Balanced center of gravity was found on the
graphical violence but also the intellectual and psychological rally,
where there was essentially what we are already showing what is
sketchy, with the potential to happen. With each repeated viewing, we
recognize the key elements behind the facade fascinating serial killer
in order to discover a whole range of people of different walks of
life, crossed in a single unattractive existence. Almost twenty-two
years since first screening, "The Silence of the Lambs" remains the
definition of thriller of our time. Too bad Jonathan Demme did not
direct not nearly as good as this that today is undoubtedly a classic.

******
29 October 2015
9
Silence of the Lambs is an awesome movie. It is perfectly written and
the actors who played buffalo bill (Ted Levine) and Hannibal Lecter
(Anthony Hopkins) were extremely good choices. Buffalo Bill is the
perfect mix of Ed Gein, Ted Bundy, Gary Heidnik, Edmund Kemper, etc.
Even though it is mainly a serious movie, it does have some funny parts
to it which gives a genuine but interesting outlook to what all of
these serial killers actually did. Although it is over 20 years old, it
doesn't have the typical 'campy' humor/feel that most 90 movies had (I
love campy movies though so that wouldn't have been much of a problem,
personally). Its the perfect mix of creepy and wonderful. I would
recommend it fully.

******
16 October 2015
9
I felt like this was a bit over-hyped, but not overrated. I know those
sound like the exact same thing, so I'll explain myself. The overall
quality of the movie was about what I'd been led to believe it would
be, but it didn't come in the way I had expected. Pretty much
everything I'd heard about this movie before seeing it had something to
do with Hannibal Lecter. Now, he's definitely a noteworthy and
intriguing character, but not as much as his reputation seems to give
him credit for. On the other hand, the serial killer plot with Buffalo
Bill was more interesting than I thought it would be. Fortunately, this
combination made it so that I wasn't disappointed by the hype, but that
is something to be conscious of if you have high expectations for this
movie, or any for that matter.I won't go into too much detail with the plot to reduce spoilers. The
external plot with Buffalo Bill is the most prominent, and has a good
progression that will surprise the audience at times and likely won't
confuse them so long as they pay attention. Hannibal Lecter is
important to this plot since he gives Clarice information about Buffalo
Bill, but his pathological nature takes prevalence whenever he is on
screen. If you're somebody who has a hard time following complex plots,
I would recommend doing a little preliminary research on the plot
beyond watching the trailer. And if you are one of those people but
think this will be the movie where you are "really going to latch on to
every detail", keep working at it, but be honest with yourself and
don't be afraid to ask a friend or blogger or FAQ page. It's not
necessary to do that, but I think it will improve your experience and
it's something I wish I had done.Our protagonist is an FBI agent-in-training, Clarice Starling. She's
confident in her abilities, but also aware of her youth and
inexperience in the field. Both of these qualities are brought forward
by the probing, vampiric, and insidious Hannibal Lecter, who seems to
feed on people's souls as much as he does their bodies. He's got a lot
of the qualities we love in our psychological villains in his ability
to overcome the authority controlling him and the way he makes people
like they are more prisoner than he is. I rather wish we got a closer
look at how he deals with people he doesn't respect since Clarice seems
to be one of the rare people that interest him. We see Buffalo Bill
from a bird's-eye view, much as Clarice does. Most of what we/she know
about him are based on second-hand accounts or evidence. Fortunately,
the buildup of his off-screen reputation proves not to be disappointing
in the few scenes where we see him at work. He seems to be quite as
interesting a character as Lecter, though in a less psychological way.
The second-tier characters consist of Dr. Chilton and Clarice's
superior Jack Crawford. They're developed somewhat impressively for
minor characters and have a decent amount of screen time and plot
relevance.I didn't find the acting hugely impressive, though the dialogue ranks
among some of the better material I've come across. The directing is
pretty good, creating suspense effectively throughout. The couple of
action sequences might not have come off well in a strictly action
movie, but since this is a thriller it worked just fine.Regardless of your genre preference, I would recommend that pretty much
everyone give this a try, unless you're an extremely casual movie fan
that likes to watch movies passively. Otherwise, there aren't many
reasons not to watch it. There aren't really any disgustingly
disturbing images like you might expect, though it is certainly an
intense film. It won't be as appealing to modern audiences, but don't
let it's age turn you away. Just be willing to pay attention and you
should be able to enjoy it. Overall Rating: 8.5/10.

******
13 October 2015
9
This is definitely a film that proves you don't need tons of blood and
gore to have a good suspense/thriller film.I was never a fan of this
kind of movie genre but this movie caught my attention from start to
finish. I couldn't look away or sleep well at night. This is a movie
based off a few real life killers which makes things even scarier if
you ask me. Anthony Hopkins performance as the deranged genius Hannibal
Lecter earned him a well deserved Academy Award and the same was true
of Jodie Foster's performance as Clarice Starling. This film should go
down in history as one of the greatest suspense films in the history of
cinema.

******
13 June 2015
9
Director Jonathan Demme and author/screenwriter Harris/Tally are all
very talented, but they really outdid themselves here. The more I watch
this film, the better it gets. Just the close-up shots of Hannibal
Lecter's (Anthony Hopkins) and Clarisse Starling's (Jodie Foster)
faces.I recently saw it for the 5th time with my daughter, who saw it for the
1st time. She was on the edge of her seat just as I remember, while I
enjoyed the deft plotting, the great characterization, even of
side-characters (like the self-absorbed psychiatrist Chilton), who were
painted with sparse but knowing strokes.Hopkins and Foster are just perfectly cast, doing the perfect
mannerisms, the perfect accents, the perfect everything. The supporting
cast is also outstanding, from Starling's boss, who uses her as bait to
engage dangerous psychopath Lecter to solve a serial murder case, to
the unpleasant psychiatrist Chilton, to the victim held captive in a
pit by the serial killer, all the way to the psychopathic serial killer
who is sowing himself a female identity out of his victim's skins.The clues abound, and while obvious in hindsight, are subtle enough to
be interesting: Southeast Asian moth = criminal is a Vietnam War
veteran. Seamstress patterns in closets to reveal where the perpetrator
must have learned the sowing trade.Although the gore is very sparse in this film, it is really shocking,
and built up just right to cause maximum suspense and "yech" factor.
The director manages to make you wince even when you don't get to see
all that much.So why "only" 9/10? After many viewings, I think more and more that the
cutting between Starling and her boss at the end, when he enters the
wrong house, is too cheap a trick to show that he ended up tracking the
wrong person. Likewise, the "break into the storage" scene lays on the
difficulties with forced entry a bit much. Hitchcock would have stayed
away from such low-grade suspense devices. Sometimes less is more.
Still, this film is better than a few of the grandmaster's thrillers,
and that's saying something coming from a fan who saw his first Hitch
while the grandmaster was still filming them!

******
4 March 2015
10
Now over twenty years old, Silence of the Lambs is still one of the
most intriguing films ever made. Ambitiously blurring the lines between
the genres of horror, psychological thriller and crime drama, Silence
is intense but not overpowering, and complex without ever losing sight
of its grand narrative. As with all great films, many components come together to create a
masterpiece; excellent screenplay, directing, cinematography and
musical score to name but a few. However for me, the acting is what
makes Silence the unforgettable experience that it is. Jodie Foster's
portrayal of the young and inexperienced FBI agent instructed to
investigate the actions of a serial killer is as flawless as acting can
be, inspiring many later performances from actresses in similar roles,
and providing the audience with a first person narrative to stabilise
some of the more horror-centred segments of the film. Anthony Hopkins' performance as Hannibal Lecter is equally magnificent.
Despite appearing in less than a quarter of the film. his combination
of intensity, calculated calmness and slow-burning character
development without ever truly revealing the character's true history
or even motivations, the audience is presented with, in my opinion, one
of the greatest psychopath film characters of all time, breaking
stereotypes of violent and out-of-control villains and creating
something far more terrifying.It is the lack of prolonged scenes of graphic violence, blood and
torture that give Silence its edge over almost all other horror films.
It is unassuming when watched for the first time, and slowly becomes
increasingly fascinating, impossible to watch and not become totally
immersed into this world which is, after all, the real purpose of
fiction. A timeless classic that will never lose its terrifying yet understated
charm or relentless quest to redefine chilling and breathtaking cinema,
this is a film that the viewer will dwell on long after the credits
roll.

******
19 June 2014
10
I first saw Silence when it came out in late 1991. A friend and I saw
it, and left the theater stunned. It was the first time I have ever had
trouble sleeping after watching a movie, so impactful was the content.Silence is flawless in all aspects. Casting, screenplay/plot,
direction, cinematography, and editing are superb. By now, we are all
familiar with Dr Lector (Anthony Hopkins), the deranged, brilliant
psychologist who does battle with the forces of good, here represented
by the FBI's Clarice Starling (Jody Foster. Perhaps her last great
role). Hopkin's performance is a tour de force of acting. He uses words
like knives to stab at Clarice, exposing her checkered past, extracting
information that he stores to dig into her later on. And Clarice, a
young FBI agent with strong experience in psychology, is clearly
overmatched by Dr Lector. They play a back and forth cat and mouse game
that will keep you on the edge of your seat throughout.Excellent casting includes the sanitarium head, Dr Chilton (Anthony
Heald) who plays this sleazy Head who covets having Dr Lector as his
prize while clumsily trying to snag a date with Clarice. Scott Glenn
portrays Dr Crawford, Clarice's boss whom she looks up to. He has his
own demons he's dealing with that are never fully revealed, and the
father-mentor interaction between him and Clarice is palpable. Finally,
there's the other evil force, excellently played by Ted Levine.There is a significant amount of killing, and some very viscerally evil
scenes that are not for the squeamish. You will be moved, so if you are
not good with strong physical scenes, you may want to close your eyes a
lot. But you must see this film. The final piece is the editing and
directing, which weaves every scene together so it all adds up and
makes sense at the end, kind of like in Forest Gump, but with evil
intent, not kindness.This film was one of those rare gems that even the Oscars got right by
awarding it the triple crown of Oscars - Best picture, Best Director,
Best Actor, and Best Actress. It also won best screenplay. If you have
not seen this movie, it's a must-see that you should put on your list.
Make sure you are prepared for the darkness of evil portrayed so
brilliantly in the Silence of the Lambs. Enjoy.

******
11 May 2014
10
Arguably the best movie of all time. I understand that the Silence of
the Lambs gets a little discredited for being gory and at times
horrifying. I have never felt a rush more powerful and exhilarating
than when I watched this movie. I've seen it enough where I can now
quote it line by line, but the very first time I saw the movie in its
entirety, I was stunned. I was blown away. I continue to get that
feeling even now when I watch for the 25th time or so. As a whole, it
is such a though provoking movie. Think of the plot of Se7en, the
Departed, Pulp Fiction, Inception - they all make you think and really
understand the movie. To me, Silence of the Lambs does that better than
any other film in history. Not to mention how great Jodie Foster as FBI
trainee Clarisse Starling and Anthony Hopkins as Dr. Hannibal
Lector/Hannibal the Cannibal. When you watch this movie, don't take it
for its goryness and horror. You have to take it for its deep meaning.
The moth, the biggest symbol of the movie, as Dr. Lector says
"represents change". As Clarisse hunts down on serial killer Buffalo
Bill (Ted Levine - excellent job as well), Dr. Lector is enlisted to
help her while his genius lies alone in prison. One for the ages. No
doubt about it. MUST WATCH>

******
4 May 2014
8
The Silence of the Lambs is one of the rare horror films that convinced
much of the American public, and even the Academy Awards, that horror
doesn't have to always be about gore, excess violence, and extremism.
In fact, horror can stem from many different aspects, one of them being
psychological, which is the subgenre that the film caters to. Through
use of strong acting and an interesting story, the film manages to
explain why it etched itself into the list of greatest American films
ever made simply by existing and going what nobody thought its own
genre could do.The film stars Jodie Foster as Clarice Starling, who is pulled from her
training at an FBI academy by Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn), who works
for a unit in behavioral sciences. Jack grants Clarice the honor of
meeting one-on-one with former psychiatrist and serial killer Dr.
Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), who is also known for cannibalistic
crimes. Lecter's knowledge is requested because of a serial killer
nicknamed "Buffalo Bill" currently running rampant in the streets, who
is highly-publicized and known to skin the corpses of his female
victims.Upon arriving at the Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally
Insane, Clarice meets a surprisingly mannered and well-articulate man
that is Hannibal Lecter and not the psychotic murderer one would
believe. What unravels is a strange relationship between an FBI trainee
and an insane mental patient. Starling has to get close to Lecter for
his knowledge and insight into the crimes of "Buffalo Bill," but also
must refrain from dangerously close connections which could instantly
spark something detrimental to her well-being.The first thing to marvel at with this film is how it utilizes its
talent, plunging Foster and Hopkins into a story and set of
circumstances that need to be well acted in order to be believable and
gripping; both veteran talents do not slump here. Foster gives a very
solid performance as Clarice, that is mostly successful at avoided the
often alienating tropes that result when we focus on cops or undercover
investigators for two hours. Then there's Hopkins, in a role he has
become known for for good reason. Hopkins instantly clicks here as
Lecter, provoking fright and unsettled nerves with viewers. Rather than
over-the-top zaniness, Lecter relies on quiet, mannered acting
techniques that are all the more frightening because of how out of the
ordinary and unexpected they are from a man of his caliber. This leads
the viewer to ping-pong back and forth with the idea that Lecter is
really a misunderstood victim or an amazingly talented con-artist.Then there's the mounting tension on display here, largely thanks to
Jonathan Demme's direction and Ted Tally's screenplay. The film plays
like a true detective story, utilizing slowburn and patient tension in
order to achieve a great, suspenseful result. These kinds of films hold
up because they deliver something new each time one sees them. This
being my first time viewing The Silence of the Lambs one gets the idea
that even after seeing it, watching it again would be a great
experience because it would allow you to pay more attention to the
serene details of the film and how the end result came to be.With strong work behind the camera, and equally strong work in front,
there's really no shock that The Silence of the Lambs came out the way
it did, a strong and capable psychological thriller/horror film that
beautifully relies on nuances and mannerisms rather than shock and awe.
The fact that the film may have lead some to look at the horror genre
with a bit more respect in the short-run would maybe be a stronger
statement if horror didn't go south in the long-run. But that's another
blog/review for another time.Starring: Jodie Foster, Anthony Hopkins, Scott Glenn, and Ted Levine.
Directed by: Jonathan Demme.

******
2 May 2014
9
Thomas Harris's book has been reinvented for cinema. And its fantastic!The film has everything a good thriller should have. A solid script,
nerve racking tension, a relatable protagonist and fearfully clever
antagonist. Anthony Hopkins (Hannibal) does A tremendous job at
portraying his psychotic, menacing role, he truly is the star of the
show. Its even better than the film and needs to be seen by everyone!This was just a brief revue about some of my basic impressions of the
film, however i really do hope you have enjoyed this masterpiece as
much as I have.LOL LINES ARE FUN meowmeowmeowmeowmeow

******
16 June 2013
9
A tight-wound thriller, and sequel to Thomas Harris' 1981 novel Red
Dragon (though the movie Red Dragon came almost a decade later on this
movie's shoulders), this is quite simply one of the best novel to movie
adaptations till date. It can be easily compared with great adaptations
like To Kill a Mocking Bird, One Flew Over Cuckoo's Nest, Lord of the
Rings Trilogy among others. Coming to the characters, 'Hannibal' played so dexterously and
chillingly by Anthony Hopkins still gives me the creeps, with good all
round performances by others. Jodie Foster as an FBI trainee plays her
role to perfection in finding a serial killer with Hannibal's help.
'Buffalo Bill' played by Ted Levine has also done great job in his
portrayal as a psychopath killer whom the FBI is searching for.The plot is simple yet the viewer simply can not escape the tension
throughout the movie. There are enough twists and turns to keep the
viewer glued to the movie. You wait for Hannibal to come on screen in
the same way you wait for dinosaurs to come in the Jurassic Park. The
direction is impeccable and editing is spot on. The suspense is
brilliantly maintained and the sound track adds to the atmosphere.No wonders this movie won all the major academy awards for the year
including best actor to Anthony Hopkins.If you have not watched this movie and even if you are not a fan of
horror or suspense movies, you are certainly missing one of the best
creations in the history of cinema. Go watch it!!

******
26 May 2013
10
it is an extraordinary thriller.i saw it quite a long time back and at
once loved it . since then i have revisited it almost around fifty
times. what makes it even so good are the performances .everyone from
Jodie foster to Anthony Hopkins to Scott Glenn were too good .it is one
of my fave thrillers , in fact i fell in love with thrillers after
watching the film. i was intrigued by the story the first time i watch
it ,but it's been so many times i have revisited it and always found
something new about the film . it's my fave thriller from 90's and one
of my all time favorite thriller . the experience of watching the film
was enchanting and honestly even the performances by Jodie foster and
Anthony Hopkins are reason enough to make it one's favorite . it's
mesmerizing, enchanting , awesome. a masterpiece.

******
23 May 2013
10
Because of The Silence of the Lambs comes some much needed
identification for the horror category. It is a first-rate production
all around. It boasts a witty and dramatic script based on the Thomas
Harris novel, full of great lines. It has marvelous direction from
Demme. Demme creates suspense very well throughout and uses some great
directorial shots such as the twin frames of Clarice ringing a doorbell
and the FBI men breaking into a home. The two lead actors won Oscars
for their performances...each deserved. Foster is very good in her
role, but it is Anthony Hopkins that literally lights up the screen
with his complex portrayal of a complex serial killer. Hopkins does the
seemingly impossible. He frightens you with his outrageousness and yet
forbidden some pity/compassion(albeit not a lot) for his situation. He
says his lines with reservedness when needed and brashness when needed.
The rest of the cast is also quite good with Anthony Heald a standout
as a unethical, petty doctor in charge of Hopkins. Of course the story
of the other killer is very very chilling as well. A quality film in
all aspects!

******
20 December 2012
9
With a screen time of not more than 17 minutes, Anthony Hopkins pulled
off a memorable performance that gained him an Academy Award; I think
no actor has won an Oscar for such a short screen time. His was so
great that even in this short screen time he puts the fear of his
cannibalism in you that he also earned the title of the 1 Villain of
all time in the AFI (American Film Institute) 100 Years... 100 Heroes &
Villain for his portrayal of Dr. Hannibal Lecter in this movie.There is just so much about this movie that just makes you love it, the
high intellect showed by Lecter, the way he master minds the people he
is talking to making them bend to his will in such a way that they have
no idea, and how he can draw you in for just a bite of your nose. This
is one of the best movies I have ever seen.Silence of the Lambs is one of three movies to win all five major Oscar
awards, those awards are: Best Picture, Best Actress, Best Actor, Best
Director and Best Adapted Screenplay. The other two films to achieve
such are It happened One Night in 1934 and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's
Nest in 1975.The movie plot is about a young FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Jodie
Foster), who seeks the advice of the imprisoned Dr. Lecter (Anthony
Hopkins) to apprehend another serial killer, known only as "Buffalo
Bill".Clarice was sent to Hannibal Lecter with the hope of gaining a better
insight into the mind of the serial killer Buffalo Bill, by talking to
another psychopath (Lecter). Dr. Lecter used to be a psychiatrist,
until he turned psycho. He has a powerful mind and he is an excellent
mind manipulator.This 1991 classic is based on the 1988 novel of the same name by Thomas
Harris, his second to feature Hannibal Lecter. His first book in 1981
Red Dragon was where Lecter was first introduced as a brilliant
psychiatrist and cannibalistic serial killer. Red Dragon was the first
film adapted from the Harris novels and it was done in 1986 and named
Manhunter it starred Brian Cox as Lecter, spelled "Lecktor".A remake of Red Dragon was done in 2002 starring Hopkins as Lector and
the movie was adapted from the same novel as Manhunter, released to a
generally positive review Red Dragon was a critical and box office
success, making over $200 million on a $78 million budget.This movie (Silence of the Lambs) was a box office success and it is
one you will one to watch, but warning it does deal with cannibalism
and it is graphical in some sense.www.lagsreviews.com

******
9 December 2012
10
One of only a handful of films that successfully adapt a novel to the
screen. The movie manages to perfectly capture the thrilling atmosphere
of the novel, and for that reason alone, is a strong film in its own
right.Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter is chilling right from his first
shot. And despite having less than 30 minutes of screen time, his
influence is felt throughout the entire film.Jodie Foster is right at the same level. Not until the end did I notice
her seamless transition from a submissive to dominant character. Her
performance shone through and carried the film.The direction is spot on; tight and tense. There is a remarkable
buildup of suspense, particularly at one point towards the end that
made my heart race.Perhaps the most amazing accomplishment is that every technical aspect
managed to not stick out in an overt way. Instead, they all blended
perfectly to create the right mood, which is what film is all about. I
cannot recommend this film enough. You get well-crafted writing,
outstanding performances, thrilling direction, and an all-together
feeling of terror.

******
21 October 2012
10
Anthony Hopkins is just wild in his Academy Award winning performance.
I find it amazing that I was getting chills up my spine just from
watching him play Lecter. This is the best of his Lecter performances,
as the other movies, Hannibal and Red Dragon lack storyline and he
needed a strong character like Jodie Foster who is incredible. Clarice
is a vulnerable character that pulls off a believable FBI trainee. You
believe she has the strength to do the job but are constantly concerned
for her safety. Jodie Foster is as always and incredible actor. The
scenes with Foster and Hopkins are undeniably the strength of this
movie. Hopkins picks away at Foster's inner demons, forcing her to open
up her troubling past. In exchange, he reveals more and more
information on the identity of a notorious serial killer. Foster's
desperation does nothing to budge Hopkins from his request, and her
vulnerability is more and more present as their scenes progress. They
are both remarkable in this movie. A classic thriller of a movie that
never lets up on the suspense.

******
9 October 2012
10
Day 9 Of My 31 Days Of Horror 2.So last night I finally sat down and checked out Thee Silence Of The
Lambs. We are soon going to be watching this film in my high school's
film club on October 29th. I wanted to see what everybody was talking
about. I hear this film Quoted all the time and I know the famous
Characters. So what did I think of the film? The film starts with
Clarice Starling played by Jodie Foster as she is pulled from the
training course and called to her boss Jack Craford's played by Scott
Glenn office. She is told to go to the psychiatric ward to speak with
Hannibal Lector played by Anthony Hopkins about the serial killer
Buffalo Bill played by Ted Levine.She meets with Hannibal as he agrees to tell her information in
exchange for memories from her unhappy childhood. As a child Clarice
experienced Her father die in a hospital a month after an altercation
with 2 burglars. She was then sent to live with her uncle on his farm.
One day she tried to run away. As she was leaving she witnessed lambs
getting slaughtered. She tried to save one but had to let it go because
of it's weight.Hannibal eventually reveals that Buffalo Bills real name is Jame Gumb.
His mother died at the age of 2 and started killing at 12 when he
murdered his grandparents. Buffalo Bill has kidnapped Catherine Martin
played by Brooke Smith who is the daughter of the Tennesse senator Ruth
Martin played by Diane Baker.Clarice finds out that if she does not get to Buffalo Bill fast enough
then Buffalo Bill will kill Catherine. He plans to starve he and skin
her for his "Woman Suit".Meanwhile Hannibal has escaped his highly guarded cell by killing to
police officers and disguising himself as one of the mutilated
officers. He gets put in an ambulance unmasks himself and escapes.Clarice finds Buffalo Bill but does not recognize him at first but then
realizes who he is as he runs away. they both go down to the basement
where Clarice finds Catherine and goes after Bill. Buffalo Bill toys
with her and turns the basement lights out. he pulls out a revolver
planning a sneak attack but is killed when Clarice hears the sound of
him cocking his revolver. She shoots him 6 times and is hailed as a
hero.In the films final scene Clarice gets a phone call from Hannibal who
says that he has respect for her and does not wish to kill her. He then
spots a Docter who was rude and harsh with him and says that he will
"Be Having An Old Friend For Dinner." This film is a masterpiece and
held my attention the entire time. It is entertaining, Gruesome and
disturbing but your eyes never leave the screen. The story is one of
the best I have ever seen, The characters are well written. The film
deserves all of its' Oscar wins. The performances done by Jodie foster
and Anthony Hopkins are some of the best I have seen. Jodie Fosters
character is sweet and innocent and Anthony Hopkins is calm and gentle
but has violent cannibalistic outbursts. If there is some reason you
have not watched this unless of course you are too young to watch this
then I am shocked. This is a film I wish everybody would see.Rated R For Strong Grisly Violent Content Including Terror And
Disturbing Images, Abberant Sexual Content And Language.1hr 58min/118min.16 uses of the F-word.****/****

******
4 August 2012
9
What separates this movie from other horror movies is, nowadays horror
movies have lots of gore and blood. But this one had scary dialog, and
real suspense. Hannibal Lecter really got me! I mean he was described as a psychopath
and he looked calm, then he showed us his true colors!"Buffalo Bill" was crafty and crazy! The only thing he shows affection
for is his poodle "Precious" Clarice Starling proved that she has what it takes to be a professional
when she used her skills to track down the sadistic "Buffalo Bill".For these reasons and more this movie will remain a suspenseful
masterpiece.

******
19 January 2011
10
The Silence Of The Lambs is one of those movies that you don't ever
want to be finished. The story/plot is intriguing, involving,
interesting and makes you stay in the edge of your seat. The crazy
characters are very believable and I was very afraid when Clarice was
going to meet him for the first time.Anthony Hopkins did a great job at portraying a nuts psychiatrist and
sociopath. He did so well that I find it hard to imagine him as a
normal person outside the movie.Ted Levine was as good as Hopkins at portraying another crazy man.
Also, he was very brave to play a "transsexual" man back in 1991 when
nobody knew what it was about.The creepy feelings we get throughout this movie are worth a watch in a
rainy dawn, I surely recommend this to thriller lovers.

******
12 January 2011
9
I had read this book by Thomas Harris and thought it would make a great
movie but was concerned when I heard that Jonathan Demme was making it.
How wrong I was though and I was overwhelmingly surprised. It was the
first film about a serial killer where it did not rely on strong
elements of violence and gore but simply left it to the imagination.
Obviously Hopkins and Foster get all the plaudits and rightly so but
this is one of the only films that has so many superb minor characters
such as Barney, Ardelia Mapp and Bill himself. I urge those who like
this movie to watch the making of documentary as it is truly
fascinating. A roller-coaster ride of emotions and tension which I
enjoy every time I watch it.

******
13 September 2010
10
Silence of the Lambs is probably the best movie of its kind. Its sheer
intensity is unmatched. It is a superbly well-written story that
involves multiple very dangerous characters, most notorious of which is
Dr. Lecter (Hannibal). An FBI agent, Clarice Starling (wonderfully
portrayed by Jodie Foster) needs to extract information from a
dangerous psychopath Hannibal Lecter (amazingly brought to life by
Anthony Hopkins) about a serial killer called Buffalo Bill (Ted
Levine).There are so many elements that make Silence Of The Lambs chillingly
scary. Buffalo Bill chooses young female victims and skins them. He
kidnaps the daughter of a senator which quickly prompts an FBI hunt.
Agent Clarice visits Dr. Lecter who is held in a maximum security
prison to ask him questions about Buffalo Bill's psychological profile
because he was Dr. Lecter's patient many years ago....when Dr. Lecter
was a normal human being (if you can call it that).I have always found the idea of a psychologist going insane and
becoming a human eating monster very scary. I mean he is supposed to be
the expert about human behavior to cure psychological disturbances and
he is the most disturbed of all. However, he is equally brilliant. Dr.
Lecter's brilliant mind brings depth to his character. Clarice's
difficult task of understanding and deciphering the mind of -not one
but- two psychopaths creates multi-dimensions.I don't want to say too much about the story and what happens next. But
let me say that the movie is full of suspense and literally
breath-taking moments. After 20 years, I have not seen any other
similar type of movie that I enjoyed as much as I enjoyed Silence of
the Lambs. This movie completely changes the serial killer characters
in movies and adds depth to them in an unprecedented fashion. Killers
in movies like Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Friday the 13th, Halloween (the
major horror franchises) gave us faceless monsters with no character
depth. They wouldn't say a word or even make a sound (this was probably
done to disassociate them from regular human beings). Even though this
seemed to have worked, Silence of the Lambs' depiction of killer
monsters in more elaborate fashion works even better.

******
23 December 2006
10
"The Silence of the Lambs" is a genuine suspense thriller that is sure
to satisfy anyone who enjoys a good old crime thriller. Jodie Foster
brilliantly plays Clarice Starling, a strong willed, "tough girl type"
FBI trainee, whose job is to track down a notorious serial killer by
the name of "Buffalo Bill", who is kidnapping and slaying young women
in the area. While investigating, in hopes of finding the killer,
Clarice meets Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), an incarcerated,
blood-thirsty cannibal who holds information as to the whereabouts of
Buffalo Bill. Clarice and Hannibal begin to form a strange relationship
as she seeks him for help to find the serial killer and stop him before
he kills his latest victim.Easily one of the best and most sophisticated crime thrillers I've
seen, "The Silence of the Lambs" is an excellent movie. To begin, the
performances are what really shine here. Both Foster and Hopkins are
award-worthy (and I believe Hopkins won an Academy Award for his
portrayal of the malevolent Hannibal Lecter). Jodie Foster is
completely believable in her role as the intelligent heroine, and
really has the audience sympathizing with her. On the other hand is
Lecter, wonderfully played by Hopkins - his character is one scary guy,
I definitely wouldn't want to be near him. Their chemistry in the film
is amazing, and the conversational scenes between them, both of them
separated by bars or a glass wall, are tense and brilliantly acted. The
performances all around are simply top-notch.The plot itself is an intriguing one at that, and I liked the
relationship that was formed between the FBI agent and the serial
killer - it's all really interesting. Then, there's the serial killer
that is the sole reason that Clarice has any relation to Lecter -
because Lecter has information that could help her. The gender-bending
Buffalo Bill is shown throughout the movie, kidnapping women, and the
viewers get an insight into his bizarre world, mostly shown in his
underground "chamber" under his house, where he skins and stores his
victims, dead and alive, and wears their skins. The finale in the
pitch-black basement/lair between Clarice and Buffalo Bill is genuinely
terrifying, and will surely have you on the edge of your seat. Really
one of the creepiest scenes that I've seen in a movie.Overall, "The Silence of the Lambs" is a movie that you won't want to
miss. The performances alone are enough reason to watch this film,
Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins are absolutely amazing. On top of
that, it is a truly scary film and one of the most suspense-ridden
thrillers out there. A definite must see. 10/10.

******
4 October 2006
10
'The Silence of the Lambs (1991)' isn't even about Hannibal Lecter.
We're so distracted by cold, probing voice of the suave psychiatrist-
turned-serial-killer (played with chilling calculation by Anthony
Hopkins) that it's easy to forget that the film is ultimately about
Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster), a rookie FBI agent with a dark past.Clarice spent her adolescence trying to escape death  the shooting of
her father, the slaughter of spring lambs on her neighbour's ranch 
and sought to banish these memories by joining the FBI. She's a young
woman in what is traditionally a man's world, forced to endure the
degradation of constantly having "eyes all over her body" (and this
disquieting metaphor is reinforced later on as we witness Clarice ogled
through the lens of night-vision goggles). The motives of her boss and
mentor Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn) are somewhat dubious, and their
final handshake quivers with sexual awkwardness.Hannibal Lecter perceives Clarice's dark past and recognises her
strengths. He falls in love with her in a platonic sort of way (not
dissimilar to how Sherlock Holmes fell in love with Irene Adler, one of
the few people to have outwitted him, in "A Scandal in Bohemia"). The
moment that their fingers touch through the bars of Lecter's cell is a
chilling sharing of intimacy. Thomas Harris subsequently elaborated on this relationship in
"Hannibal," but that novel (and, to a lesser extent, Ridley Scott's
2001 film adaptation) goes completely off the rails in its final act.
Clarice Starling would've been best left alone. (Tellingly, the best
parts of 'Hannibal (2001)' were those set in Florence, Italy with
Giancarlo Giannini).Finally, nobody ever mentions Ted Levine's perfect performance as Jame
Gumb (a.k.a. Buffalo Bill), probably because he's such an repellent
character. Lecter is frequently framed in close-up, emphasising
Hopkins' mesmerising, unblinking stare, and he speaks eloquently and
intelligently. Jame Gumb, conversely, is kept at a distance, often
swathed in poor or garish lighting, or framed in such an extreme close-
up that his features appear grotesque.

******
30 January 2006
9
The financial success of the movie speaks for itself, with twists and
turns giving deeper insight into one or more of the main characters.
Two truly evil, intelligent, and depraved characters are revealed along
with the difficulty catching and keeping them locked down in safe
conditions. The richness of each character and displaying the
combination of skill and luck leading to identification and capture of
"Buffalo Bill" is extraordinary.Anthony Hopkins displays the highest level of acting skill, Ted Levine
adds reality as Buffalo Bill, and Jodie Foster does a great job of
leading the viewer through her character's life back and forth between
the FBI Academy's controlled environment and out in the unpredictable
real world dealing with psychopaths. The realistic performances by all
of the supporting actors combines to keep the viewer glued to the
screen.

******
21 October 2005
10
Films don't usually get as creepy or thrilling as the top-notch,
first-class creepy and chilling thriller known as Silence of the Lambs.
There is nothing that can take your breath away with so much style and
wit like Silence of the Lambs does. You'll need to watch this film in
order to understand how thrillers are created and executed.The young and feminine Clarice Starling, who is training to be an
F.B.I. agent, must find the whereabouts of a serial killer named
Buffalo Bill. The only way possible is interviewing a captured serial
killer named Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter.Hannibal Lecter is perhaps the best movie villain that ever lived.
Anthony Hopkins plays his role with perfection, because you will hear
Lecter's voice stuck inside your head. "I ate his liver with fava beans
and a nice chianti," will re-play in your head over and over. Hopkins
deserves an Oscar for his portrayal of the most sinister character on
the big screen. Creepy, sinister, devilish, clever and
cannibalistic-How much better can it get? If the villain isn't enough
to entertain you, then perhaps the hero will. Jodie Foster, also a gem as the role, plays the feminine F.B.I agent in
training, Clarice Starling. She is seemed to be well-liked (often
flirted with) but insecure and very timid. Starling is very realistic,
and shows how timid the human nature can be.At a first viewing, all I could keep my mind on was the prison escape
scene. I kept repeated the phrase "Oh God," and kept preparing myself
for what was next. During a second viewing I realized the depth of the
story line and the genius behind it all.One thing this movie definitely has is atmosphere. The killings, the
characters, the dialog, and everything else that leads up to the first
appearance of Hannibal Lecter makes the film look so delightfully
creepy. Even though Hannibal is silent when we first see him, it is
considered one of the creepiest introductions ever made. Of course, we
can't forget about this man. Even after the ending, he delivers one
last line that sends shivers down our spines.Silence of the Lambs may make you a bit disgusted, yet thrilled and
excited. You will stay on the edge of your seat.Silence of the Lambs is a masterpiece, atmospheric thriller.10/10

******
27 August 2005
9
Funny how I hadn't seen 'Silence Of The Lambs' ever since it was just
finishing it's theatrical run back in 1991. Hopkins, Foster and Demme
have gone on to do other things of course, but I recently caught this
again on DVD again, and man, this still has a lot of ability to scare
you out of your wits. Anthony Hopkins is just wild in his Academy Award
winning performance. I find it amazing that I was getting chills up my
spine just from watching him play Lecter. This is the best of his
Lecter performances, as the other movies (that would be Hannibal and
Red Dragon (though they were okay) lack the dramatical oomph so
prevalent in this one. One wonders how on earth Hopkins could do this
then do something like a light comedy like Spotswood (which is exactly
what he did). If you haven't seen this in a while, do yourself a favor.Watch it again.

******
8 August 2005
10
**** out of ****Awesome would say it all. This movie is brilliant as it shows two
actors in great performances like Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster. But
these two have become so overrated, that we even, sometimes, may forget
the others from the great cast, like Ted Levine, Anthony Heald and
Brooke Smith, all of them in great performances. I tried to watch this
movie for the second time without anything nearby disturbing me like
sounds, phone conversations and lights turning on and off. Glad I am as
those things didn't happen the first time I watched it, so I could
absorb the movie quite well. In conditions like that, I became
completely frozen when I saw Hannibal Lecter for the first time, on
screen, standing up, still, in that green prisoner outfit, in his
prison cell, saying only "Good Morning".Well, Hopkins has proved himself he can deliver quite a good
performance, whether he stands still or not, whether he's silence of
not. The movie features many brilliant scenes like Lecter's escape from
his cell in the police department, his conversations with Agent Clarice
Starling and the breathtaking few scenes of Catherine Martin screaming
for being held hostage by the never ending sinister psychopath, Buffalo
Bill, played by Levine.The Silence Of The Lambs' plot is one many people might already know.
But this review, of course, like all my others, are intended to be read
by people who have already watched the movie. Foster goes on an
assignment to meet Hannibal Lecter and take from him clues in order to
catch the assassin. But Lecter gives Starling the chance for them to
perform the "quid pro quo", which suggests that whenever he gives her
information, she will have to tell him about her life. This makes
character developing take place in most of the entire movie.This won 5 Oscars, as I think it deserved. The only thing I didn't like
in it was when Foster withdrew her pistol in order to arrest Buffalo
Bill, as she did it very slow, a minus for a winning performance like
Foster's. But that's the only bad thing about this movie. What counts
is the presence of professional people like Foster, Hopkins, Smith,
Levine, and of course, the director Jonathan Demme.

******
13 July 2005
10
This movie is excellent. It is one of my favorites. My future career is
going to be working as a C.S.I., and Criminalist and Parole Board
member. This movie has a lot things in it that are related to these
things.The actors and actresses did a great job in this film, as did the
filmmakers and other crew members. I hate those two physcopath Dr.
Hannibal Lecter and Jame Gumb, a.k.a. Buffalo Bill who skins his
victims. These victims are young women who are a size 14. He also is a
resemblance of Ted Bundy. That is he spots a woman ans puts his arm in
a cast pretending he's injured and needs help. When they help him he
attacks. Great Movie!

******
9 July 2005
10
To me, this is the epitome of movie making: A film that can make you
feel sorry for the characters, make you smirk at their quips, make you
gasp in horror or revulsion, and hold you in its awe all in two hours.There is a reason this film was given Best Picture (a departure for the
Academy); there is a reason Hannibal Lecter was given the honors for
greatest cinematic villain; there is a reason that among many, the film
is considered to be better than the book its based on. It will do me no
good to tell you these reasons, just see the film.Don't bother with the other two Hannibal films, although Red Dragon is
mostly worth seeing.

******
4 July 2005
10
This film is the Grandaddy of all suspense and thriller films of all
time!This film has its moments but i really enjoyed it, and how buffalo bill
skins his victims and wear them like decoration and ponce around like a
women.That scene was sick but it was great.Dr Lector's entrance to the film is really creepy, as Clarice
progresses down the prison hallway the camera exposes him standing in
the middle of the room silently as if he'd been waiting for an
eternity. When Dr.lector is caged and the 2 police officers bring him
some dinner and he escapes and when found by the police the 1 guard is
opened up like he's on show, exposing all the major organs. "I can smell your c*nts", that was a icky scene where he cums on her
face, nice, but not for jodie foster i'd reckon.This is a classic film with the most famous cannibal in cinema history.
Enjoy!

******
21 June 2005
10
Though my dedication to this film sometimes freaks people out (I've
been known to quote it at somewhat inopportune moments), I don't think
it's anything to be ashamed of. This film is a brilliant,
tightly-plotted masterpiece, a tour de force of masterful acting,
absorbing dialogue, and tempo and pacing that is at once highly tense
and soothingly mesmerizing. The give-and-take between Starling and
Lector has an almost heartbeat-like rhythm, quiet and subtle yet
extraordinarily powerful. I don't think it's inappropriate to say that
this film doesn't hit any truly false notes. The main reason that my
friends often won't watch this film is simply because it scares them
too much -- which, I believe, is one of the film's greatest triumphs.

******
2 May 2005
10
This is the best horror movie ever made for several reasons. While the
story is terrifying and grizzly, Demme never lets it become schlocky or
sensational. He plays is straight, so to speak, never letting the plot
become secondary. Perhaps a more... ambitious, director would have
added more creepy atmosphere (like David Fincher does with "Se7en"),
but Demme smartly keeps it real, which makes it all the more
terrifying. Nothing that happens in this movie couldn't happen in real
life (and it does happen). This approach also harnesses the lead
performers. He never lets Foster get too melodramatic, and never lets
Hopkins become a flat Halloween mask. As frightening as the film is,
there is a moral core throughout that neither hides completely nor
brow-beats you. I have a bunch of videos and DVD's, but when almost any
friend comes over and looks them over, they always want to watch
"Silence of the Lambs." It's uncanny.

******
14 March 2005
10
Classic Psycho Drama which attacks the senses and plays mind games with
whomever watches it ! Anthony Hopkins(Hannibal Lechter) gives a Tour De
Force performance as the ultimate misguided Psychiatrist from Hell,
whose ambitions vary from moment to psychotic moment. Lechter known for
his exceptional perception,is visited by Clarice Starling (Jodi
Foster)a new recruit for the F.B.I., that needs to get Hannibal's
insight. Even though Hannibal is incarcerated for most of the movie,
you feel that he is in total control. Hannibal gives Clarice clues thru
the movie, to solve the "Buffalo Bill" case, and to help her advance
her career and deal with her psychological problems. In effect he
becomes her psychiatrist behind bars, interesting. Watch for their
third meeting, where Hannibal's head seems to be floating on the
reflective glass, really creepy ! Everyone in the movie , from her
boss, Scott Glenn(Jack Crawford) to Jame Gumb(Buffalo Bill), is either
seeking advancement or control of their own reality, amazing !!!As Clarice gets closer to solving the case, Hannibal escapes, and then
things really get out of control !!!Terrific ending in the home of "Buffalo Bill" will leave you on the
edge of your seat !!! Great Directing by Jonathan Demme and OUTSTANDING
Editing by Craig McCay, take you into the world of Starling and
Lechter, but will not let you totally escape from their presence, not a
safe movie !!! There are a few flaws, as to how Lechter gets the pen, or how he knows
where to phone Clarice, but they are minor.Ted Levine should have gotten Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor,
this role could have typecast his career.This movie should be viewed by Adults ONLY !!! I highly recommend
"Silence of the Lambs", Winner of the TOP 5 Academy Awards, only 3rd
movie in history to do so !!!

******
9 October 2004
9

When I first saw this film, I was about 14, lying in my bed, watching
it in German on TV late at night, with the lights on, and almost
falling asleep (probably actually dozing for a couple of minutes now
and then). When I was waking up once, noticing Hannibal Lecter on my
television screen, looking at me with his alive, clear eyes and
speaking to me about screaming lambs, that was surely one of the most
exciting moments in my movie-interested life. So it is definitely a
good idea to see this at night, with one's concentration wandering
away.Now I saw it again (at daylight!), and many other things struck me. The
character of Catherine Martin is actually really cool. The snobbish
daughter of a famous politician reacts to the terrible things that are
done to her in an unusually offensive way - it looks as if she was
never giving up.And then did you notice how utterly serious this film is? There is not
a single funny scene in it. And this is really great! Which other
feature film today manages to be taken seriously by everybody and never
being unintentionally funny although it does not have a single moment
of irony? The humorous take-outs attached to the DVD version seem
really weird and out of place when you are in the mood this
unbelievable film creates.


******
1 October 2004
10

When i first saw this movie i was about 13 years old,didn't catch it
wellthen i saw it a couple of years later and it did an overwhelming
impression.I actually see it once in a while to remember,it urged me to
see the "Hannibal" to but the first one was a lot better.I would
recommend to everyone to see it,not to like it but just see it and make
your own opinion about this movie.There are a lot of movies that really
suck i would say this is not one of them.I liked Jodie Foster's
character, it's a bit simple but straight and MR. Hopkins did a great
job in the movie as Dr. Lecter to.But it is only my opinion tho.Make
YOUR opinion- SEE Dr. Hannibal Lecter IN ACTION :)


******
18 September 2004
9

This is one of the all time great police thrillers. Anthony Hopkins
portrayal of Hannibal Lecter is absolutely flawless and engrossing.
It's fast paced and relentless from the moment it begins. This movie is
also a first for having a female lead role. We get to see how Clarice
Starling reacts in a "mans" world, which indeed the FBI and law
enforcement in general were at the time of this films release. My Recommendation(*) - Must see in theater / Must own( ) - Rental( ) - Borrow it from the poor sap who paid for it( ) - I wouldn't use this to prop up a wobbly chair


******
20 August 2004
10

When I first saw the trailer to this in the theaters, I was instantly
interested in it, so I read the book before it's release.  Although movies
seldom live up to the respective novels in which their based, this one
equals it, but in different ways.  I have to hand it to Ted Tally for his
script adaptation; his script keeps the core of the story while stripping
away the more complex and unnecessary aspects of the novel and still makes
it suspenseful and interesting.  The acting is magnificent, Foster plays
Clarice with what looks like such ease, and yet keeps the character complex,
smart, strong, and comfortably flawed, and aware of those flaws.  Hopkins is
equally brilliant as Lecter: he is everything Clarice is but more charming
and unaware he possesses any flaws at all.  One of the things I love about
the film is it's simplicity.  The sets and clothes look normal, unimportant,
everyday, cheap.  Nothing's flashy or overly ornate looking.  It still holds
up very well after 13 years.  Won Oscars for Best Actor, Actress, Adapted
Screenplay, Director, and Picture.  Highly recommended.

******
11 August 2004
10

Lector Quotes: "People may say were in love."  Call it what you want, this
film is a scary, crazy, sacred love story.  Clarice (Jodie Foster) has a
dark past, much like Hannibal Lector (Anthony Hopkins) who has a hunger to
eat the flesh of human beings. There's a scene when Lector finnaly helps
Clarice to let go of her past, and as she's about to walk away he touches
her finger. That touch has all of his emotions, love, anger, and the rest is
all of the above. But that is what I mean by sacred, its weired but
sacred.THE PLOTA vicious psycopath is murdering women throughout the midwest. Believing it
takes one to know one, the F.B.I. sends agent Clarice Starling (Foster) to
interview a prisoner who may provide clues to the killer's actions. That
prisoner is Hannibal Lector (Hopkins), a brilliant, demented cannibal who
agrees to help Starling only if she'll feed his morbid curiosity with
details of her own complicated life. But as their relationship develops,
Starling is forced to confront not only her own hidden demons, but also an
evil so powerful that she may not have the strength to stop
it.Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster deliver sensational performances, and
portray complicated and enigmatic characters. The only film that I
remembered scaring me like this was "Psycho", and thats what we have to
compare this film to. "Psycho", "The Exorcist" and even the modern
thrillers, like "The Sixth Sense" and "Signs."I love this film, I give it ****(out of 4 stars). 

******
24 July 2003
9

This is one fantastic movie. Anthony Hopkins plays the brilliant, all
knowing, Dr. Hannibal Lecter who 'helps' in his one unique style(which
becomes clearer each time you see the movie), rookie FBI agent Clarice
Starling track down 'Buffalo Bill', serial killer. Lecter, the genius that
he is, perceives Starlings inner demons and want to know more about her in
exchange for information about the serial killer. His line: "Quid pro quo,
Clarice. Quid pro quo. You tell me things, I tell you things" is my (and
my
wife's) favorite. Lecter engineers events and makes a daring escape which
is
gripping to watch. Hopkins portrayal of Lecter has been voted by AFI as
the
the number 1 villain of all time and deserves it all time. The film
deservedly won Oscars for best film, best director(Jonathan Demme) , best
actor, best actress and best screenplay. The only other film to have won
all
five top Oscars was 'It happened one night' (1934).

******
23 September 2002
10

Immeasurably superior to its disappointing sequel "Hannibal," "Silence of
the Lambs" must surely rank as one of the absolute greatest thrillers of all
time. Given the nature of the movie, there is surprisingly little graphic violence
contained in it. The story focuses instead on the complex psychological
relationship between FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) and the
imprisoned cannibalistic serial killer and ex-psychiatrist Dr. Hannibal
Lecter (Anthony Hopkins.) Both Foster and Hopkins are brilliant. Foster has
the larger role, and carries it off well, but Hopkins steals the movie with
a frighteningly realistic portrayal of a frightening serial killer. Lecter,
approached by the FBI because they believe he might be of assistance in
helping identify a current serial killer known as "Buffalo Bill," sees in
the FBI's interest an opportunity to escape imprisonment, and plays a series
of mind games with Starling (and anyone else who wants to speak to him about
the case.)Director Jonathon Demme effectively weaves two stories (the hunt for the
serial killer, and the Starling-Lecter relationship) together into a taut
thriller that will have you on the edge of your seat. And, in the end, has
there ever been a better, funnier and more thoroughly chilling line in any
movie than Lecter's closing comment to Clarice: "I have to go now. I'm
having an old friend for dinner."I can't identify a single weakness in this movie. 10/10.

******
9 October 1999
9

First of all I have to say that "The Silence of the Lambs" is the film which
inspired all the serial-killer films of the 90's (good ones like "Se7en" and
silly ones like "Kiss the Girls"). But "The Silence of the Lambs" has many
things the other thrillers don't have.In this film we can see two of the best performances ever. Anthony Hopkins
is just perfect as Hannibal Lecter, and so is Jodie Foster as Clarice
Starling. The dialogues between these two characters are brilliant, and so
is the whole screenplay.The film has a great story which explores deeply the main characters. It is
not just a serial-killer story, but above all a deep dramatic
thriller."The Silence of the Lambs" impressed me so much that I've watched it many
times.So if you hadn't watched it, take your time and see it.Surely one of the best films ever made.Rating: 10/10I heard that Ridley Scott is about to direct the sequel of "The Silence of
the Lambs", with Sarah Michelle Gellar as Clarice Starling. Well... I truly
love Sarah and she's one of the greatest actresses of her generation. But we
see Clarice Starling as Jodie Foster and, you know, many people will compare
Sarah's acting with Jodie's.

******
22 October 1998
10

The normal human being's fear of being attacked, bitten open in a violently
impersonal manner and then taken in as food is as old as the first human
being's shattering witness of such a primordial act. In the thousands of
years of human evolution, intelligence has armored [most of us] against
predations of that horrible sort. But even more incomprehensible is an
attack, for mere hunger's sake, by one human being upon another! When first
we see Dr. Hannibal Lecter, his madness is merely the subject of comment,
responsible or otherwise. As we view him [uncomfortably] from the safety of
a theatre seat, we can only imagine the deep wells of need which forced him
to savage his fellow human beings in this manner, and this makes all the
more terrible the awful scene in the Memphis courthouse. Into all this walks
Clarice Starling, her innocence and anxiety both touching and troubling. She
is essentially tricked into taking the assignment to "interview" Lecter by
her superior, Jack Crawford, who callously deems her expendable. She somehow
summons the rural courage of her youth, forged from the furnace of her weary
sufferings, and becomes the blank sheet for both Crawford's and Lecter's
amusement. As the result of being pulled in opposite directions in the
murderous tug-of-war between Lecter and Crawford, Starling is almost totally
alone in the film. In spite of her genuine liking for Aredlia Mapp,
Starling's isolation is nearly so complete as to be claustrophobic. Director
Jonathan Demme's finely-nuanced work here is well served. Her enlightenment
takes place primarily in darkness, whether the setting is Lecter's cell in
the dungeon, or whether the apotheosis takes place in the demon's lair.
There are almost no likeable characters in the film save Starling. This
makes it easy to root for her to overcome the furies which have pursued her
since her tenth year. Clarice's predatory instincts are to bring a vicious
psychopath within the scope of punishment. In sharp contrast, the other main
characters in the film are possessed of predatory natures of a baser, more
primitive kind, whether it is Dr. Frederick Chilton's need for sex, or
Crawford's need for control, or Lecter's need to destroy for pleasure. The
music score by Howard Shore is reminiscent, in a eerie way, of Bernard
Herrmann's work in Psycho. Shore's opening theme foreshadows the loneliness
and desperation of Starling's dual quest, which is to kill both beasts: the
one without and the one within.

******
8 July 2015
9
"The Silence of the Lambs" deserves its recognition as a classic and
one of only three movies in history to win the "big 5" Oscars. The
protagonists were brilliantly portrayed. Hopkins very much adds to the
story through his creepy performance. His articulate speech and refined
southern English accent were jarring as he rarely blinked and calmly
expressed his cannibalism. The way Lecter masterfully picked at
Starling's insecurities while she tried to get his assistance in
finding Buffalo Bill made the character all the more terrifying.
Foster, unsurprisingly, is extremely believable as a young woman who
wants to prove her worth for her future occupation by tackling the
ambitious case. The directing flows smoothly. Great use of extreme
close-ups are used to see the actors' emotions and connect with them.
The flashbacks were introduced before they seamlessly illustrated the
effects Lecter's prodding conversations has on Clarice, making these
scenes easy to follow and making Foster's character more of a
protagonist. On a side note, I appreciated the conscientious effort
made to include a diverse cast in the film, with African- Americans
featured prominently in important secondary roles. With that being
said, I did feel that the movie was not perfect. The way Clarice finds
a lead as to where Buffalo Bill is hiding seemed far- fetched to me. I
felt the case could have been further developed before Starling reached
the conclusion she arrived to. Moreover, I felt that Buffalo Bill could
have used more of a back-story than what is given in order to increase
the depth of his character. While some insight is given by Lecter, it
is not enough to understand what caused the gender/identity issues that
drive Bill to kill. This made his character seem a bit two- dimensional
as the antagonist of the film. In contrast, I found Lecter's character
rich in depth, as he would be considered a bad guy unless he was
helping to find another mentally ill murderer. His character does not
hold back his psychopathic ways or complete, self-centered disregard
for the well- being of others if it doesn't suit his needs. All in all,
this was an incredibly well done film that could probably only be
improved if not for time restraints.

******
4 July 2015
10
Unlike a lot of viewers, I first saw The Silence of the Lambs at five
years old. So, for me, The Silence of the Lambs is a childhood
favorite. Some would say I had an unusual childhood, in this age where
some people actually avoid R-rated movies like the plague. The fact
that I saw Something Wild, which Jonathan Demme directed five years
before The Silence of the Lambs, as well as the original Alien (alone
at that), at the same age probably indicates that they were okay with
me watching pretty much anything that wasn't rated X, though, honestly,
I've never had any interest in that stuff. It was probably due to the
fact that, like the movie's protagonist, I don't "spook easily," and
many so-called "scary" movies, including this one, never scared me, but
(many of them) definitely thrilled me. Granted, I'd seen Saving Private
Ryan a few months before, which probably gave me a strong stomach.
Well, enough about my wild, albeit fun, childhood. How does The Silence
of the Lambs hold up all these years later? For me personally, The
Silence of the Lambs is every bit as good as it was the first time I
saw it at five years old.On the off chance you don't already know the plot by now, Jodie Foster
stars as Clarice Starling, a rookie FBI agent with a degree in
psychology who is called from training by her boss Jack Crawford (Scott
Glenn) in the middle of a string of murders by a man nicknamed "Buffalo
Bill" (Ted Levine) who skins his victims, all of whom happen to be
women. Crawford tells her to interview the psychotic Dr. Hannibal "the
Cannibal" Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) in prison, hoping he might have an
answer of some kind. Lecter brushes her off. After Catherine Martin
(Brooke Smith), the daughter of a senator is kidnapped, Lecter agrees
to give Starling information about Buffalo Bill on the condition that
she tell him personal information about herself.If I had to pick the greatest Best Picture Oscar winner ever, it would
most likely be The Silence of the Lambs. Well-acted, well-written, and
well-directed, it's definitely my favorite.Let's look at the acting to start. Jodie Foster, unsurprisingly, won a
well-deserved Oscar for her performance as Starling. Foster plays
Starling as a little scared yet strong at the same time, definitely not
a coward as Julianne Moore later played the character in the movie
Hannibal, and definitely not someone who would turn cannibal as Thomas
Harris wrote the character as doing in the novel Hannibal. Movie or
novel, in my honest opinion, the Clarice Starling depicted in Hannibal
is an insult to what this Clarice Starling stands for. As we find out
about what's been nagging Starling since childhood, Foster plays it
especially well where another actress may have overdone it. Anthony
Hopkins, like Foster, won an Oscar for his performance as Lecter, and I
speak for a lot of people, if not everybody, when I say it was also
well-deserved. Hopkins plays Lecter as brilliant yet insane, making him
one of the more interesting villains in movie history. Scott Glenn
plays Crawford very well for the time he's on screen. Ted Levine plays
"Buffalo Bill" as straight up crazy, and does a very good job of making
us hate him. Brooke Smith is only supposed to play Catherine Martin as
scared and she does - with dead-on accuracy.Ted Tally won a well-deserved Oscar for his screenplay, adapted from
Thomas Harris' novel of the same name. Tally doesn't feel the need to
focus on violence and gore, which is one of the movie's strengths.
Instead he focuses on the characters, and I'd be lying if I said he
didn't flesh them out very, very, very, well.Jonathan Demme also won an Oscar for his directing and he does a very
good job of it. The Silence of the Lambs is relentlessly thrilling and
it holds me to my seat until the last frame every time I see it, all
without relying on excessive gore. I've already mentioned that The
Silence of the Lambs doesn't scare me, so it may - or may not - scare
you, depending on what you're afraid of. Admittedly, there are a few
creepy things displayed on screen so I can see why it would scare some
viewers. Either way, I can't recommend The Silence of the Lambs enough,
and everybody should see it at least once.The Silence of the Lambs is a childhood favorite of mine, and it holds
up very, very well almost 25 years after its release. It's relentlessly
thrilling, flawlessly acted, flawlessly written, flawlessly directed,
and one of the few movies that actually deserved all the Oscars it won.

******
23 September 2014
9
Very well directed with a heavy and ominous tone that shadows the
entire movie. The sound and editing all function in creating and
maintaining the film's eerie atmosphere. Reviewing this film, how could
one not mention Anthony Hopkins chilling and creepy performance as Dr.
Hannibal Lecter. He portrays, without a doubt, one of the best
psychotic characters in cinema history. He's so good that at one point,
you may start to, dare I say, root for him? The chemistry between
Hopkins and Jodie Foster's character is brilliant and the dialogue
between them is masterfully crafted. Once you let Hannibal into your
mind, you can never get him out. After watching The Silence of the
Lambs, I don't think I can ever forget it. Are you up for the
challenge?

******
21 May 2014
9
The Silence of the Lambs Director: Jonathan Demme Starring: Jodie Foster, Anthony HopkinsI honestly feel bad sometimes for the people faint of heart. Not in an
insulting way I just do. I love movies that can scare me and some of
the greatest are great because of creepy atmosphere that creeps up on
you and grabs you and throws you into a world where everything is
mysterious and scary. This is one of those movies. Dr. Clarice
Starling's (Jodie Foster) tale of finding the killer Buffalo Bill with
the aid of the cannibalistic Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) is a
creepy, well acted, and not for the faint of heart film that has many
thrills in store for the viewer. The greatest thing that this film has
to offer is the atmosphere. It's engrossing. The dark hallways,and the
unblinking eyes of Hannibal Lector shake you to your core. That alone
without the well done mystery could make the movie. Oh, but it is a
good mystery. Jodie Foster is Clarice Starling a new FBI psychiatrist
who is ordered to interview the cannibal Hannibal Lecter (Anthony
Hopkins) for the purpose of finding a killer. Foster's character is
optimistic and more upbeat. This is good because of the dark nature of
the rest of the film. She's kind of like the balance for the creepy
stuff happening, and light in the darkness. That also kind of help her
character. See she's optimistic at first, but as time goes on she seems
to fall deeper and deeper into this world her character changes to
someone more hardened. This is perfect character development. Then
there is Anthony Hopkins. This is one of my favorite performances of
all time. He is unblinking,scary and smart. It's unsettling. Hopkins
said that the way he played Hannibal Lecter was still. I now know why.
See people are always moving and doing something. Lecter is completely
still and extremely soft spoken. Even more menacing is that Lecter is
actually smarter than Clarice. He outsmarts her. This just adds to the
fact of how menacing he is. He's not the villain though. The real
villain is a creepy transvestite murderer named Buffalo Bill. His story
arch is interesting, but it comes to an abrupt close. He is scary none
the less and is also a little weird. I mean a transvestite who I'd
rather not write it. It's messed up and the details will shock you. The
actors really do drive the story and everything comes off very shocking
and convincing. For better or worse.The acting is really good,but so is everything else. The production
design in this movie is grounded in reality,but still is creepy. The
prison set that was built for the film looks very good and the darkness
of the whole this adds to the atmosphere and makes everything pop. The
camera-work is good, but also nothing special, yet at moments the
camera having a staring contest with the wide eyes of Hannibal Lecter
add to the sheer unsettling nature of the film.This is overall an incredible movie. Scary, atmospheric, and chalk full
of performances that are Oscar worthy (and won Oscars). I give The
Silence of the Lambs a 9.8 out of 10 Seriously though it's really
messed up.

******
18 May 2014
10
This is not just the best horror or thriller or crime movie ever made,
it is simply put the single best movie ever made in the opinion of this
movie lover.The performances are amazing! Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins both
deserved to win the Academy Awards for Best Actor and Best Actress,
they were brilliant in their roles from the beginning of the movie
right to the very end.I recommend this movie for anyone (except for younger people, it is
definitely not exactly an appropriate movie to show the kids - too much
gore).Love this movie!

******
20 April 2014
10
When it comes to horror films of the 90's, I can't think of many films
as iconic as The Silence of the Lambs. While there were certainly other
iconic horror films at the time such as The Sixth Sense and Scream, the
one thing The Silence of the Lambs did that those films didn't, was win
the Oscar for Best Picture. Not only that, but it also won for Best
Actor for Anthony Hopkins, Best Actress for Jodie Foster, Best Adapted
Screenplay for Ted Tally, and Best Director for Jonathan Demme. It also
became the fourth highest-grossing film of 1991. So with all that, you
expect something special, right? Well, is it? Let's take a look, shall
we?The plot follows a young FBI trainee by the name of Clarice Starling
who is pulled from her training academy to interview Hannibal Lecter, a
former psychiatrist and incarcerated cannibalistic serial killer to
find another serial killer by the name of Buffalo Bill under the order
of Jack Crawford. After some interrogation and investigation, Bill
abducts Catherine Martin, one of the U.S. Senator's daughter. Leaving
it up to Starling to find Bill by dealing with the darkest of all
minds, Hannibal Lecter.The appeal of Silence of the Lambs lies in its mix of realistic
depictions of police investigation and serial killer antics while
retaining a cinematic panache to keep things entertaining. The film
depicts its police investigation very realistically with a great
attention detail to the dead bodies and the way the main serial killer
Buffalo Bill operates is actually pretty realistic. His motives are
very opaque, never completely clear to the audience, just like how
serial killers are to people in real-life. He's trying to make a dress
with a woman's flesh throughout the film because he thinks he's a woman
but you never get why he wants to kill people. You have to pay full
attention to see what's behind his head. But at the same time, the film
doesn't feel TOO realistic to the point where it's boring and dull to
sit through, there's still a certain entertainment factor to this film.
For one thing, the film is scary. While this isn't exactly the type of
horror film you can have a good time with when you call over some
friends while having a few beers, it still has plenty of good scares to
keep you entertained from beginning to end(especially towards the end).But I think the main reason why this did so well was because of the
characters. While most horror films would feature the serial killer as
the most interesting character of the film while the main character is
as dull as a rock, this film did something a little different. Clarice
Starling in this film is equally interesting as the serial killers
themselves because she's not just some girl who just happen to become a
target for the killer somehow but instead, she's ASSIGNED to find the
serial killer herself and actually has a personality and she actually
goes through an arc. She starts out haunted from her childhood memory
of seeing lambs being slaughtered so she feels guilty about seeing such
a thing happen but not doing anything about it considering her dad was
a cop and hears sounds of lambs screaming in her dreams but she
overcomes this towards the end when she saves the senator's daughter
and kills Buffalo Bill. And thankfully, they got a great actress to
play this part, Jodie Foster. Foster has a believable intelligence to
her that helps you buy her matching wits with Hannibal Lecter. It's
great that the filmmakers chose not to cast the most attractive actress
but instead, the one that could act.The rest of the characters are equally good. While Hannibal Lecter is
certainly not a realistic portrait of a serial killer, he works well as
this great, unstoppable force of evil that Clarice has to match wits
with to find Buffalo Bill. Anthony Hopkins gives the performance of a
lifetime here with all his creepy stares, sinister line deliveries, and
wicked intelligence. Ted Levine is equally creepy and unsettling as
Buffalo Bill, but in different ways. He feels a lot more like a
realistic serial killer with his strange sexuality and cross-dressing
habits. Scott Glenn is also convincing as the authoritative, determined
Jack Crawford. Lastly, I want to mention Brooke Smith as Catherine
Martin, the girl kidnapped by Buffalo Bill. I love how she starts out
extremely terrified when she's captured just like anybody would but I
like how her character actually tries to escape by threatening to kill
Bill's dog if he doesn't let her out. Smith's fear and determination is
very believable throughout the whole film.Overall, The Silence of the Lambs is a chilling, disturbing film that
also has some excellent performances to spare. Great film. 10/10

******
12 April 2014
10
Jonathan Demme's The Silence of the Lambs is one of cinema's greatest
political thrillers of all time. The movie stars Jodie Foster as FBI
trainee Clarice Starling who tries to learn information about another
serial killer from former psychiatrist Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal"
Lecter (played perfectly by the great Anthony Hopkins.). Director
Jonathan Demme totally knew how he would execute this movie and he did
it perfectly. Also the movie not only has great performances throughout
but it also has a great score from the magnificent Howard Shore.Also
the movie stays true to it's storyline. Based on a novel by Thomas
Harris the movie ended up winning 5 Academy Awards because of it's
Hichcockian thriller style that was used for the film but in a
different way, and also for the Oscar level effort the great cast and
crew put forth. The Silence of the Lambs is an adrenaline shock to the
senses that will make your heart beat rapidly.

******
20 August 2013
9
"The Silence of the Lambs" is a movie in which a young FBI agent
Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) tries to get some information from Dr.
Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) who is a psychopath and used to be a
respected psychiatrist, for a psychopathic serial killer who skins his
victims. To get these information Clarice Starling has to gain the
respect and the trust of Dr.Hannibal Lecter.When I saw this movie I thought that Anthony Hopkins is really not OK
in his minds for real and that's because of his perfect interpretation.
I also think that Jodie Foster made an also perfect interpretation.
Τhese were seen and in the Academy Awards where Anthony Hopkins and
Jodie Foster won the Oscars for Best Actor in a Leading Role and for
Best Actress in a Leading Role respectively. Jonathan Demme's work in
the direction of this film did not go unnoticed and he also won the
Oscar for Best Director."The Silence of the Lambs" is a movie that you have to see it, it's a
really good Thriller and Crime movie with many good scenes and an
exceptional screenplay.

******
17 August 2013
10
this film will always be known as one of the greats in the
horror/thriller genre for its dramatic posture when presenting such a
risky film. Anthony Hopkins performance was magnificent every word and
every turn he made. Jodie foster's character brought a real sense of
belief with her acting and also brought a real sense of fear towards
the films story. this movie was pure movie genius capturing pure
technique towards the story and the acting. Jodie and Anthony should be
praised for their wonderful performances as these two characters and
also by the way that they express the characters emotions towards the
films story.10/10

******
4 August 2013
10
I think Anthony Hopkins is one of the best actors ever, no one could
have played Hannibal the way he does, really not. The way he looks at
her and talks to her, it's amazing. I also love Jodie Foster, she's not
some kind of barbie girl and I like that. She has a personality. It's
one of the best movies ever. It's honestly legendary. It's the best
part of the trilogy, really. The others are kind of wanna bes, of
course, Hannibal is amazing but it's not the same.I love all of the actors and actresses. I had a blast watching it, it's
so exciting, it scared me but in a good way. The first time you watch
it, you never know what is going to happen, that is really awesome.

******
25 July 2013
10
"Something Wild" director Jonathan Demme's "The Silence of the Lambs"
proved to be a memorable milestone of a movie in both the careers of
Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins. This serial killer thriller concerns
the efforts of an FBI agent in training who proves instrumental in
cracking a case that nobody could have solved without her help. The
daughter of a small-time cop, Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster of "Taxi
Driver") is minding her own business at Quantico, Virginia, negotiating
an obstacle course when the FBI Chief of Behavioral Sciences, Jack
Crawford (Scott Glenn of "Sucker Punch") summons her for an interview.
Crawford wants Clarice to visit convicted murderer Dr. Hannibal Lector
where he has been imprisoned for eight years. In fact, Lector hasn't
laid eyes on a woman for eight years. The warden in charge of Lector's
incarnation is a conceited egotist, Dr. Frederick Chilton (Anthony
Heald of "Red Dragon"), who makes a pass at her and fails. Before he
allows Clarice to speak with Hannibal, Chilton shows her a photo of
what happened to a nurse that Lector gnawed on. The nurse is
permanently disfigured as a result of Lector's attack. Lector is now
kept in a cell with a reinforced glass window and stone walls. Dr.
Chilton is prepared to escort Clarice into Lector's presence, but she
convinces him that Lector may clam up at the sight of Chilton. Rudely,
Chilton dismisses himself and turns Clarice over to Barney. Barney
(Frankie Faison of "Hannibal") provides Clarice with a chair and she
and Lector talk briefly. Lector isn't the only unsavory soul in the
prison. In what amounts to an infamous death row of sorts, other
perverts are housed in the same area. One of them, Miggs, make a
derogatory comment to Clarice about her body odor, and Lector later
kills Miggs. Meantime, Clarice entices Lector to talk about Buffalo
Bill. Bill is a serial killer who has slain five women. These women are
a little bigger than the average. In Memphis, we watch as the killer,
Jame Gumb (Ted Levine of "Heat") abducts a girl when he is struggling
to load a sofa into his van. Catherine Martin (Brooke Smith) backs into
the rear of the van and Gumb traps her and takes her to his house. In
the basement of his residence, Gumb has a pit where he holds Catherine.
Meantime, Lector provides Catherine's mother with information and he is
moved to another facility. During his sojourn at the new facility,
Lector fakes off the guards, kills them, and manages to escape.
Lector's escape is pretty incredible. By this time, Clarice believes
that she has found a clue. Crawford warns her that they have found the
killer. Clarice continues with her part of the investigation and
stumbles onto Gumb living in the residence where she thought she would
find somebody else. Clarice narrowly survives a suspenseful moment when
Gumb extinguishes the lights and uses night-vision goggles to overpower
her. Clarice cannot see but she can hear and she shoots at the sound of
a revolver being cocked. She empties her gun into Gumb and he dies. In
other words, he doesn't jump up a few moments later. "Silence of the
Lambs" concludes with Clarice graduating from the FBI Academy.
Well-made, well-acted, "Silence" is top-notch material.

******
11 May 2013
10
Over 20 years after I first saw this film I have now decided to put
'pen to paper' so to speak and praise what I think is one of the most
gripping murder movies made, with a host of actors from Jodie Foster,
Scott Glenn,Anthony Heald, Ted Levine - who was a relative newcomer
then - and of course Anthony Hopkins firmly at the top of their game.
Everyone knows the story by now of how Clarice Starling(Foster) has not
yet passed-out of the FBIs famous academy at Quantico when and where
she is under the close supervision of one of its chiefs Jack
Crawford(Glenn)and they are on the hunt for a serial-killer 'Buffalo
Bill'. They or perhaps SHE seeks the assistance of Dr.Hannibal Lekter,
a brilliant but disturbed criminal killer himself and she has intimate
talks with him in his cell to garner information she hopes will help
find 'Bill' before he kills more innocent young women in his most
deranged and brutal way mutilating them. The only criticism I saw
throughout the film was the plausibility of the situation Foster finds
herself in towards the very end and whether that would be possible? I
don't know - I 'm NOT in the FBI and having read the 'Trivia' I think
this has been explained. Other than that, a brilliant film that just
keeps delivering and when I saw it recently on Spanish TV for about the
5th time it was just as good as when I first saw it and there are very
few films that you can say THAT about!

******
31 October 2012
10
I was about 12 the first time I saw this movie. I was at home with my
older sister and it creeped me out. I remember she had to explain some
of the scenes to me as I was only 12 and maybe a little young to watch
it (but our parents always let us watch movies that as an adult looking
back now, am shocked they did). Love the "feel" of this movie - dark,
dingy and cold. Anthony Hopkins is amazing. Very chilling, but you
can't help but like him. Watching this as an adult still gives me the
creeps. Its a way better alternative at this time of year than a horror
movie. The sequels are OK-only worth watching because of Hopkins. But
this is a classic.

******
17 October 2011
10
It is one great film. No question about it.The Silence Of Lambs is rare
American thriller film that blends elements of the crime and horror
genre that is based on the novel of the same name by Thomas Harris, his
second to feature Dr. Hannibal Lecter, a brilliant psychiatrist and
cannibalistic serial killer after The Red Dragon. The movie stars Jodie
Foster, Anthony Hopkins, Ted Levine and Scott Glenn. It was directed by
Jonathan Demme,who won an Academy Award for this film.The story of the film centers on Clarice Starling,played by Foster in
an Oscar winning performance.She is a young FBI trainee that seeks the
advice of the imprisoned Dr. Lecter,played by Hopkins in his Oscar
winning performance as well just like Foster, to help apprehend another
serial killer, known only as "Buffalo Bill".The movie was smart especially in the intellectual tug-of-war between
Sterling and Lecter.The Award winning performances truly made it
credible and suspenseful.At the same time,the story was full of horror
that will thrill the viewer to the edge of their seats. What makes Silence rise above the other movies of the same genre was
its smart story as well as the movie's ability to put the viewer into
the psychological inner workings of the minds of both Sterling and
Lecter during their meetings.This is what makes is one of the best
films ever made not only in the year but also during its decade of its
release as well.

******
22 September 2011
9
In simple language the movie is truly remarkable. The direction of the
movie is simply awesome and I loved the screenplay as well. The
conversations between Starling and Hannibal Lekter are shot so well and
dialogs are written so fine that even though the character of Hannibal
don't appear much but still its the one that you'll never forget. Even
the character of Buffalo Bill is very much creepy but Lekter wins for
me. Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal has delivered a stunning performance.
Jodie Foster has also done a good job. The psycho-thriller theme is
well established throughout the movie. Its creepy in a sense. The movie
is nearly perfect in every aspect. Even the background score settles
well enhancing the environment. Its one of the movie you won't forget.
Though the character was introduced first in manhunter, its now that it
marks its true nature. I would really recommend it to all.

******
24 June 2011
9
It's hard to believe this film is twenty years old, having seen it when
it first came out and not again till now. The movie lived up to it's
opening hype as a masterful thriller bordering on horror. Anthony
Hopkins' portrayal of serial killer Hannibal Lecter defines the story,
but when all is said and done, his character doesn't appear in the
picture very much at all. However when he does, one's attention is
riveted to the screen, attempting to outguess director Jonathan Demme's
next move in a deadly cat and mouse game between Lecter and his
adversary, be it FBI Agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster), or hapless
security guards caught unaware by a scheming mad man.The larger plot involves the chase after a serial killer known as
Buffalo Bill, named after a penchant for skinning his female victims
after he murders them. To say that the picture has it's grisly moments
would be an understatement. There are more than one scene that require
caution for the faint hearted, visualizing grim aspects of brutality
that don't leave much to the imagination. Buffalo Bill himself (Ted
Levine) is an inspired piece of work, a monster that could have stood
alone as a title character if not part of this larger story.Without giving it away entirely, I have to say that the hunt for
Buffalo Bill gives rise to a clever gimmick that will catch you off
guard for a moment, only to redirect itself very quickly to it's
suspenseful conclusion. This one's recommended for fans of
psychological thrillers who'll try to guess the ending only to be set
up for one more neat twist at the finale. Anyone for a glass of
Chianti?

******
14 April 2011
10
I think its so hard for a such stars like Anthony Hopkins and Jodie to
produce Crime,Thriller movie at this time..Silence of the Lambs is a heart-racing thriller that has arguably one
of the most interesting characters in cinema history, Hannibal Lector,
a famous psychologist who also has Antisocial Personality Disorder.
Hannibal Lector is played by Anthony Hopkins and at the beginning of
the movie, he is approached by a young, rising FBI agent, named Clarice
Starling, played by Jodie Foster. Clarice has come to interview
Hannibal, because she is currently on the hunt for a serial killer,
nicknamed Buffalo Bill, who kidnaps young women and skins them in order
to make a "suit" made out of human skin. Since he is both a
psychiatrist and a ruthless killer himself, Hannibal is the perfect
person to ask for help to catch Buffalo Bill, and the rest of the movie
is devoted to Hannibal's relationship with Clarice as he helps her
catch Buffalo Bill and as he toys with her psychologically.Hannibal Lector only appears on screen for 16 minutes and yet, he has
such a commanding presence over the entire movie. Before the viewer
even meets Hannibal, we hear that he is manipulative, dangerous, a
monster, and a cannibal, and yet, when the viewer finally has the
opportunity of meeting him, he appears genuine and even caring.
However, it soon become evident that this charming persona is only a
disguise used to get what he wants, whether that is his freedom or
traumatic memories from Clarice's childhood. He has no trouble tricking
people into trusting him, and seems to enjoy that he is able to
cleverly manipulate people to get what he wants from them. On top of
that, he is rude and makes very offensive remarks towards others
without any regard to how offensive his comments are. Again, he seems
to enjoy being able to offend people so much with the words. Finally,
perhaps the most telling of all is his murderous nature. Hannibal
enjoys eating people (cleverly nicknamed Hannibal the Cannibal), and
had been arrested for serving his dinner guests the liver from a man
who he had killed. In one scene, he is seen brutally attacking two
guards, biting off one person's cheek and then savagely beating the
other to death, and then after the killing of both guards, he begins to
sway peacefully to the classical music that had been playing in the
background. It was the exact same persona as he saw him standing in his
cell when we first meet him, cool, calm, and collected, thus indicating
his complete lack of guilt for the serious crime that he had just
committed.As I said above, the movie does an excellent job of creating Hannibal
Lector, and his behaviors are consistent and similar to the behaviors
of people who have Antisocial Personality Disorder. Like most other
people with this psychological disorder, Hannibal shows no remorse for
hurting others, especially the people who gets in his way, and he is
certainly fine with committing murder. He manipulates people to get
what he wants and amuses himself by offending and toying around with
others, displaying a common symptom of people with Antisocial
Personality Disorder, a disregard for other people's rights.Silence of the Lambs would have been an excellent movie if it only had
Anthony Hopkins' performance as Hannibal Lector, but it also has a
great performance from Jodie Foster and an unbelievably well shot
movie. It is definitely worth watching, and it does a good job with
showing how creepy and scary a person with Antisocial Personality
Disorder can be.

******
27 May 2010
10
Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster), a young rookie FBI agent, is enlisted
to help in the hunt for a serial killer known as Buffalo Bill (Ted
Levine). To aid the investigation she is requested to interview an
already incarcerated psychopath, the infamous Dr Hannibal Lecter
(Anthony Hopkins). Cunning and very intelligent, Lecter takes a shine
to Starling but will only assist her if she is prepared to let him into
her personal make up. As Buffalo Bill kidnaps the daughter of an
American senator the clock starts to tick downThe Silence of the Lambs is directed by Jonathan Demme and stars Jodie
Foster, Anthony Hopkins, Scott Glenn, and Ted Levine. It is based on
the novel of the same name by Thomas Harris. It won the top five
Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Actress, Best Actor, Best
Director and Best Screenplay. With a production budget of $19 million
the film went on to record a staggering Worldwide profit of almost $254
million. Those awards and those figures don't lie, The Silence Of The
Lambs is one of the rare occasions where everything came together
perfectly.The source novel is in truth brilliant anyway, but how many times have
we seen film makers make a hash of good material by either cutting
corners, or by trying to be too Hollywood in the telling? Too many is
the answer. Jonathan Demme and his team know that not much needs
tampering here, their task was to understand Thomas Harris' complex
characters and give them narrative strength, which they got courtesy of
Ted Tally's brilliant writing. The portrayals of said characters have
gone down in history to an extent they barely need me to have an
opinion. From the first meeting of Starling and Lecter down in the
bowels of the asylum, to the cheeky and unnerving closure, Foster &
Hopkins engage and chill respectively, one of the weirdest, yet most
tender relationships to have hit the silver screen. Scott Glenn is
professional personified as Jack Crawford, while in the wake of
Hopkins' classy monster show it gets forgotten just how brilliantly
twisted Ted Levine makes Buffalo Bill. Two quality monsters for the
price of one movie here, a bargain if ever there was one.For all the plaudits for cast, direction and writing et al, "Lambs"
climbed to the top echelons of 90s cinema because it also exists as an
excellent thriller, even a pant filling horror at times. While it also
works very well as a criminal procedure movie. We know who the killer
is quite early on in proceedings, but with Lecter tossing out
conundrums and the FBI utilising all their tricksy scientific methods,
it makes for a fascinating watch. And lest we forget that Demme shows
himself to not only be a purveyor of adroit pacing, but quite a dab
hand at thrilling set-pieces too-one that would be a spoiler should I
mention it, and the other coming during a wonderful double handed
twister as the net hopefully closes in on Billy Boy. While for hold
your breath tension, night vision goggles are your pal, or not as the
case may be.Not just one of the best crime/thriller/horror film's ever, one of the
best film's ever, period. 10/10

******
9 March 2010
10
'The Silence of the Lambs'. This movie literally made cinema's history
in the evening of March, 30th, 1992. It was Oscar's night, and Jonathan
Demme's thriller went home with all the five major awards - Best
Picture, Best Actor in a Leading Role, Best Actress in a Leading Role,
Best Director and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from
Another Medium, becoming only the third movie is history to ever
achieve this accomplishment (the other ones are 1934 Frank Capra's 'It
Happened One Night' and 1975 Milos Forman's 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's
Nest'). And the Academy was perfectly right, as 'The Silence of the
Lambs' is easily the best movie of 1991 and one of the best thrillers
of all-time. It deserved all the awards it got.'The Silence of the Lambs' is based on one of Thomas Harris' novels
about serial-killer Hannibal Lecter. But Lecter only appears in the
movie within 13 minutes of runtime. Before that, we are presented to
the movie's major plot, that is centered around Clarice Starling (Jodie
Foster). Clarice is a young FBI agent that is assigned to the case of
Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine), a serial killer that skins his victims and
then throws them in a river. But in order to gather information for the
case, Clarice must talk to Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), the most
feared and dangerous serial killer in the world. The story here doesn't
have a lot of originality, but the way the movie explains it to the
audience is simply amazing. The character development is incredible,
the dialogs are outstanding and the montages are breath-taking. I
couldn't blink not even for one second, which proves how good the
writing is. The first of the five major Oscars was certainly very
well-deserved. Thumbs up for Thomas Harris for the novel and for Ted
Tally for the excellent adaptation.Now, let's talk about the acting, and there is only one thing to say
about it: it couldn't be any better. The whole supporting cast is
outstanding, with the exception of Brooke Smith, as one of Buffalo
Bill's victims. She was just average, nothing special to it. But the
member of the supporting cast that stands out is certainly Ted Levine.
He should have been at least Oscar-nominated for his performance as
Buffalo Bill, a quite creepy interpretation. Aside from the supporting
cast, also composed by Scott Glenn and Anthony Heald, all the attention
here goes for the two leading roles. Both Jodie Foster and Anthony
Hopkins are perfect, specially Hopkins. Even though he has only 27
minutes of screen-time, Hopkins managed to deliver one of the most
memorable performances of the 1990's decade. All his gestures, that
creepy coolness, the tones his voice reaches... it's all perfect for
the character. None other actor could have done a better job, another
very well-deserved Oscar. The other leading role here goes to Jodie
Foster. Of course she is not as great as Anthony Hopkins, but she also
delivers a very memorable performance. Her naiveness, the hidden South
accent, her desperate struggle to impress her superiors - Clarice
Starling and Jodie Foster are only one. Again, a deserved Oscar award -
this time for Best Actress.The fourth Oscar award this movie received was Best Director for
Jonathan Demme. And the guy really impresses you on his directing work.
The movie wouldn't be the same nor it would have the same recognition
if it wasn't for him. The places Demme puts the camera are excellent,
as he did it for the audience to feel in the skin of Clarice Starling.
And in order to do this, Demme makes all the characters look straight
into the camera, except for Clarice, that never does this, always
looking at another direction. There are also a few scenes (most
tracking-shots) designed to be like the the eyes of Clarice. And her
childhood memories only increases the audience's approach to Jodie
Foster's character. Another deserved Oscar-award.The movie was also Oscar-nominated for Best Sound and Best Editing. The
Sound here is nothing out of the ordinary, with nice Sound Effects, but
a lousy musical score. Nothing that takes away the movie's
accomplishments, tough. As for Best Editing, it should have got the
award. Craig McKay's editing work is outstanding, as the audience is
fooled to believe in things that turn out to be others. I'm not gonna
spoil it here, but you are gonna feel pretty dumb once you find out the
tricks McKay used. The cinematography here is also nothing out of the
ordinary, such as the other aspects. Nothing that's worth mentioning.Overral, 'The Silence of the Lambs' is the perfect psychological
thriller. The fact it won all the five major awards at the Oscars only
proves my point, and they were all extremely well-deserved. The writing
is amazing, the acting is perfect, and the directing is outstanding.
You put that with one of the most memorable performances of the decade
by Anthony Hopkins, join with a great editing work, ferocious dialogs
and an impressive directing, and you have the best movie of 1991. From
all the five major awards, the last one was the most well-deserved:
Best Picture.10/10

******
2 March 2010
9
Jonathan Demme's 'The Silence Of The Lambs' is an amazing film in all
respects. Undoubtedly, 1991's finest film. Based on the novel by the
same name by Thomas Harris, here is a film that stands out it's feet
with flourish. 'The Silence Of The Lambs' is a gripping tale, there is hardly a moment
when you feel bored. I don't wanna say anything about the brilliant
twists and turns it takes, cause for those who haven't seen this
masterstroke, will give-away it's excitement. It's a great film,
Demme's direction is Exemplary. Ted Tally's screenplay is magical, just
stunning. Tak Fujimoto's camera-work is superb. In the acting department, Hopkins stands out as Dr. Hannibal Lecter.
This is his finest work to date, in fact, it's amongst the best
performances by an Actor ever! Jodie Foster is outstanding, as
expected. Playing Clarice Starling with remarkable ease. Ted Levine
causes terror and hatred as "Buffalo Bill'. Others are perfect in their
parts. 'The Silence Of The Lambs' is amongst the best movies ever made! It's
astounding history with the Academy Awards is a legend itself... do I
need to say anything else? Watch this right now!

******
18 June 2008
10
Looking back at the 90's,some of the best films I saw in that era were
very dark and sinister films that tapped into our fear factor and while
compelling us also terrified us.Silence Of The Lambs and Se7en were
both mainstream pictures that held aloft a very bleak vision but
managed to garner massive public appeal as well as critical
acclaim.Lambs will be best remembered for the scintillating performance
provided by Anthony Hopkins but there really is a lot more to it than
that.The film is alive with evil,it is a sinister and deeply disturbing
film that gets under the skin, quite literally, and keeps the tension
wound tight until the final act.Jodie Foster is brilliant as Clarice
Starling displaying vulnerability and balls in equal measure, the
follow up film should have never been made without her.Director
Jonathan Demme didn't go on to make a film anywhere near as compelling
as this,sure the film is driven by Hopkins' performance but Demme also
gets the best out of Ted Levine and Foster as well managing to maintain
the tension to tremendous effect throughout.In summary Silence Of The
Lambs is a brilliant book to film adaptation that encapsulates
everything that was great about the book and builds upon it. 10/10

******
23 May 2008
10
I love this movie. The writing is as close to the book except for one
place but the film did not butcher the book. The characters were
brilliant, I read the book and it's prequel and Foster is Clarice and
Hopkins is Lecter. Hopkins just emanated evil but in such a classy
respectable way.I wouldn't suggest this movie to someone without a stomach. some of the
scenes are fairly gruesome and it has one scene with Dr Chilton where
he shows Clarice a picture explaining how Lecter injured someone. Heck
that even made me shiver.It deserved its Oscars and it will have a lasting shiver effect on
popular culture for all time.

******
9 May 2008
10
Silence of the Lambs is one of the best genre breaking critically
praised suspense thriller movie ever made. In true fashion, not a
typical horror you would expect but metaphorically, a veneer of horror
is laced throughout this movie. The movie begins with Clarice Sterling (Jodie Foster) training for the
FBI and is called upon by superior Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn) to
interview Dr. Hannibal Lector (Anthony Hopkins) to see what possible
information he may be able to lend in catching the serial killer known
as Buffalo Bill, before he kills his most recent captive.An exciting and captivating thriller and superbly acted; Jodie Foster
and Anthony Hopkins bring to life two of the most complex and intense
characters on celluloid: Clarice Starling, a metaphor of fortitude in
the face of danger, and Dr. Hannibal Lecter, a metaphor of calculated
evil behind a sophisticated veneer. The core of the movie's aspect
deals with the character interplay between them even though Hopkin's
screen time is around 20 minutes or so. His presence is ominous and
electrifying. Hence, the stage is set for an impressive psychological
masterpiece centering on the dependence between Clarice and Lector as
she continues to track Buffalo Bill. The serial killer is mainly a
serviceable character, a restrained and reclusive transvestite. The art
of investigation is a spotlight and interesting given the tension built
as Clarice tracks the serial killer down through the vague advice that
Lector gives her. The stark pale cinematography beautifully captures the mood of the
film. The dialogue is dense, layered with subtlety and the camera-work
is skilfully handled with some stunning display of detail. A
fascinating display of direction is in a scene that shows an intense
and grisly escape that Lector plotted by making a deal which was a
transfer to another cell in exchange to provide Clarence more insight
into a serial killer's profile.Jonathan Demme has done an amazing job at skilfully presenting here
some edgy psychological material with depth that amplifies tension and
maturity. The Silence of the Lambs is clearly a favourite as it
ingeniously combines various facets of film-making to please mainstream
and most art-house film lovers. The greatness of this movie is
validated by bagging the five top Oscars.

******
27 April 2008
10
This movie was amazing. The dialogue was witty, clever and sometimes
chilling. The directing was beautiful and the acting was absolutely
superb. Jodie Foster was great as the the FBI agent Clarice Starling
who is on the trail of a serial killer. Foster was good but the star is
of course the magnificent Anthony Hopkins who steels the show with his
rolling eyes and taunting voice. Both actors deserved the Oscars
awarded to them. So did the director Jonathon Demme. The story was
great, the only clique was with the ending that has always bugged me.
The movie is an intelligent chilling thriller and there was this great
build up to something that didn't meet the audience's expectations.
Besides that everything about this movie was perfect. Highly
recommended.

******
20 October 2007
10
"The Silence of the Lambs" follows young FBI agent Clarice Starling as
she attempts to track a serial killer nicknamed "Buffalo Bill". During
her investigation, she solicits assistance from a psychotic yet
intelligent cannibal named Hannibal Lecter.Jodie Foster provides a strong performance as the neophyte agent
Clarice Starling, who is eager to prove herself yet haunted by her
past. Anothony Hopkins gives a nuanced, refined and haunting
performance as the unforgettable cannibal Hannibal Lecter. Anthony
Heald proves the perfect person to play an imperious minor official as
Dr. Frederick Chilton. Scott Glenn is also notable as Starling's
superior in the FBI.The crime story developed is excellent and remains interesting through
its various turns as it chronicles the investigative process of agent
Starling. One of the keys to this film's success is the well-written
dialogue between Starling and Lecter, which is like a game of chess
because of Leceter's manipulative tactics. The film is also effective
as a thriller, as it builds up a lot of tension throughout its
duration.

******
31 May 2007
10
There are characters who make their entrance in the movie world in such
a spectacular way that the actor or actress which played that character
risks to be associated with him/her for the rest of his/her career.
It's notably the case for Clarice Starling, but especially for Hannibal
Lecter. From the moment they appeared for the first time, it became
evident that Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins would forever be
remembered for their iconic roles.I have to say that it's Hannibal Lecter who impressed me the most. And
that's not only the case for me. I allow myself to tell you that
anecdote which happened to me. My sister is some kind of horror buff
and I decided to test her by showing her "The Silence of the Lambs".
She passed the test successfully but I'll always remember her reaction
during the famous ambulance scene when the movie is two-thirds over.
When Lecter puts off his mask to reveal his face, my sister instantly
gasped. This demonstrates without any doubt the formidable power of Dr.
Lecter. His only very presence is frightening. We see him and we are
afraid, period."The Silence of the Lambs" is the first horror movie in history to be
rewarded with the Academy Award for Best Picture. And believe me that
it deserves that prize. The Oscars for Foster and Hopkins' acting roles
also are. We often associate horror films with ghosts, demons, monsters
and other creatures which come from the imaginary and the supernatural.
But nothing is more horrifying than what appears real and very
plausible. Alfred Hitchcock has already shown that in "Psycho" and
director Jonathan Demme raises the bar with this adaptation of Thomas
Harris' novel.The story involves Clarice Starling (played by Foster), a student at
the FBI Academy who is also a specialist in serial killers. One of her
superiors, Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn), asks Clarice to interview the
terrifying psychopath Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter (immaculately
played by Hopkins) who is also a brilliant psychiatrist, so he could
deliver clues which would lead to the capture of Buffalo Bill (Ted
Levine), another serial killer actively searched by the FBI.Lecter accepts to help Clarice, but only to the condition that she feed
Lecter's sordid curiosity by confessing herself about her childhood's
worst souvenirs.Why is Lecter interesting himself to Clarice's worst days? Does he want
to weaken her? Does he want the bad guy to win? Or is he only a sadist
and a pervert? I would go with the latter affirmation.I think that it is useless to specify that, of all the characters,
Hannibal Lecter is by far the best and the most fascinating. The other
characters describe him in such a frightening and horrible way that we
fear him well before we see him for the first time. And when we see him
for the first time, we instantly remark his cold and menacing eyes, as
well as his disturbing grin.Himself a serial killer, we can consider Lecter as one of the worst (or
best, depending on how you read it) villains in the history of cinema,
even if we see him killing only once. And precisely, his attack is very
stylish. He kills both policemen on the strains of Johann Sebastian
Bach's "The Goldberg Variations" and once he accomplished his work, we
see him stained with blood, just like a painted how has just finished
from making a new painting. That scene establishes a shocking parallel
between murder and art.But Lecter is only one side of this story. In fact, he's only a
sub-plot. The true story involves Buffalo Bill's actions. Bill,
brilliantly played by Levine, acts in nearly the whole Midwest, but his
victims always are rather fat young women. Unlike many movies which
hide their killer until the very end, we often see Bill in this film,
even if we don't know his true identity, nor the frightening motives of
his crimes until the end. The only thing we can discover about Bill is
his appearing mental problems which push him to kill.The horrors of the film aren't limited to the killers themselves. The
movie is strewn with blood-chilling naturalistic images, especially the
images of corpses who got parts of their skin removed. And how could we
forget this unbearable image of the dead policeman with an open abdomen
posing like an angel who is about to take off? There's also a good dose of suspense, especially at the end when
Clarice is chasing Bill in his labyrinthine basement. The climax of the
pitch-black room while Bill is wearing his night goggles to see in the
absolute darkness is breathtaking and holds suspense until the
conclusion. At this moment, we're totally absorbed in that
cat-and-mouse game at the point that we totally forget Lecter's
existence."The Silence of the Lambs" is an excellent example of the horrors of
the criminal acts and of psychological horror aroused by childhood
traumas. Overall, the film is an immense metaphor about the horror of
modern world and wants to get sure that the viewer leaves weakened and
less in security than before he got inside the theater. The sinister
soundtrack of Howard Shore adds to the already sordid atmosphere and
the Q. Lazzarus song "Goodbye Horses" adds even more with its broken
notes which resonate and give goosebumps. Personnaly, each time that I
hear that song, I start thinking about Buffalo Bill who cross-dresses
in front of the camera with that song playing in the background."The Silence of the Lambs" is a grandiose spooky symphony well-carried
by Foster and Hopkins whose roles are already a part of the legend. The
numerous references of the movie in the popular culture keep it well
alive more than fifteen years after its release. Everybody, at least
those who are able to stand horror images, should watch this movie at
least once in their life.

******
7 January 2007
10
I had never seen Silence of the Lambs and decided to pick up the book
by Thomas Harris recently. I was thrilled by the book and I read the
entire thing in about a week. I then hungered to see the award winning
movie that I'd heard so much about. I wasn't disappointed at all. The
cinematography is awesome, Foster and Hopkins turn in A+++ performances
and the story contains the book's intricacies while moving at a pace
fast enough to satisfy. The only detail left out of the movie that was
in the book was that of Crawford's wife's death and ongoing sickness. I
think this really made Crawford seem rather one dimensional in Silence
of the Lambs and takes a lot away from his character in the book. My
girlfriend had only seen the movie and she described him as a bit of a
sleaze which shocked me because he is such a genuine and honestly good
man in the book that is simply in the middle of a massive internal
conflict. However, this does not really detract from the movie at all,
I simply felt that Crawford was an underdone character but understand
the need to simplify him. I suggest reading the book before seeing the
movie. Bon appetite.

******
24 December 2006
10
I never really got off on this film until first saw it whilst on
holiday in a hotel in New York. I didn't get off on it at first but
then my parents bought it on DVD. I saw it again and I just couldn't
take my mind off it! Hopkins is delicious as Hannibal Lector with his amazing acting and
brilliantly menacing speeches. You can't help that there is a monster
just waiting to appear from Hopkins. I just couldn't help laughing with
amazement. However, one of the biggest breakthroughs of the movie is
probably Ted Levine as Jame Gumb (Buffalo Bill), playing the main
psychotic serial killer. He has a way of playing the part that you is
so mad that it is excellent.Despite this, I don't really understand or believe the stories of
people fainting in the cinema at the film's release in 1991. It is a
horror, yes, but not a film worth having a nervous breakdown. Even so,
it is and excellent piece of acting and film making, a great way to
start the 90's; 10/10!

******
21 November 2005
10
In my opinion, THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS has excellent performances by
Anthony (Hopkins) and Jodie (Foster). I thought that Clarice (Jodie
Foster) looked very pretty in all the dressy clothing she wore,
especially the dressy outfits she wore when she visited Dr. Lecter
(Anthony Hopkins) in jail. This film didn't scare me at all. Well,
maybe just a little. Dr. Lecter scared me a little when he attacked the
two cops in his cell. There was only one thing that really grossed me
out, and that was the killer (Ted Levine) shoving an insect down each
victim's throat and then skinning them. That was really disgusting in
my opinion. Also, when I noticed that Buffalo Bill had a pierced
nipple, I got really uncomfortable, but I still enjoyed the movie. To
wrap this up, I'd like to say, "Parents, if you have young children, do
not let them see THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS. They will have nightmares."

******
10 September 2005
10
"The Silence of the Lambs" is a modern day classic for a number of
reasons. It features Dr. Hannibal Lector, bringing Anthony Hopkins a
well deserved Oscar, a pshycotic cannibal behind bars with a brilliant
mind. Clarice Starling, a definitive female hero that feeds Lector
memories of her chilling childhood, who makes it cool for women to kick
butt. And Jack Crawford the FBI Behavioral Sciences Director who
encourages Clarice as she investigates the serial murderer Buffalo
Bill.Usually when one who doesn't truly appreciate the beauty of a film,
sees "The Silence of the Lambs" as a crime movie with a nude dance
scene, a man eating another man's face, Miggs, the Death Heads Moth,
and a the hockey mask of Hannibal Lector. But I truly appreciate the
chemistry between Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins in this film. The
performances of these two brings what could be mistaken for a budding
relationship. In their final scene before Dr. Lector's break out, the chemistry is
clearly evident there. The close up shots of their faces would be
slightly annoying in another movie, but these shots show the anguish
and anxiety of Clarice Starling and the cunning and brilliance of Dr.
Lector. As Dr. Lector questions Clarice of the lambs, her mental
anguish is forced and she must relive memories of the murder of her
father, the town marshal, which could help fuel her search of Buffalo
Bill. As Lector educates Clarice on coveting, his face transforms into
a slightly evil glare that shows the brilliance and evil coinciding in
Dr. Lector's mind. This scene is my absolute favorite because of the
past of Starling is revealed. In this scene we see the true evil of Dr.
Lector begin to form and show in the movie.The chemistry is brilliant and perfect. The only other on screen
chemistry that could even compare to this would be that of Frankie Dunn
and Maggie Fitzgerald, portrayed by Clint Eastwood and Hilary Swank, in
"Million Dollar Baby."

******
8 September 2005
10
Silence of the Lambs is the best thriller ever made, and one of the
best films. Anthoney Hopkins gives what may be the best performance
ever by a leading man. Jodie Foster is not quite as perfect as Hopkins,
but is still Oscar worthy, in her best performance. Jonathan Demme is
one of the best directors alive, and this is his best film, the
direction is near perfect. The screenplay is wonderful, the dialogue
best. An amazing film in almost all perspectives, something extremely
rare for a film of the 90's.If you enjoyed Silence of the Lambs you might also like In the Line of
Fire.

******
12 August 2005
10
Every once in a while, a film is released which revives its dead genre.
In the early '90s, for the horror/thriller genre, The Silence of the
Lambs was that film. After a tribe of awful horror flicks (e.g. 1988's
Child's Play) with recycled story lines like serial killers hunting
dumb teens, The Silence of the Lambs took the serial killer movie to a
new level.The Silence of the Lambs swept the 1991 Academy Awards, becoming only
the third film in history - after 1934's It Happened One Night and
1975's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest - to win all five major
categories (Best Picture, Director, Actor, Actress and Screenplay), and
the first horror movie to win Best Picture. This is a tremendous
achievement when it was released more than 12 months before,
considering the Academy's notoriously short attention span. Each award
was well deserved, with Best Director Jonathan Demme both marvellously
pulling off the most gripping scenes and never losing sight of the
human element of the picture, Best Actor Anthony Hopkins and Best
Actress Jodie Foster both delivering unforgettable performances as the
dangerously intelligent cannibal serial killer Dr. Hannibal Lecter and
the less-than-perfect but strong willed rookie FBI Agent Clarice
Starling, and Ted Tally's Best Adapted Screenplay both delivering
snappy, quotable dialogue ("Oh, and Senator, one more thing: LOVE your
suit!") and perfectly tapping into the mind of a serial killer.This is the horror film that they all want to be, but almost all of
them won't. I've only ever seen one other that is in quite the same
league as this, and that is The Sixth Sense (M. Night Shyamalan must
have watched TSOTL about 12 times while making that film). This
groundbreaking masterpiece of horror is the standard by which all other
horror movies are measured, and it is indeed the film that for which
Hopkins, Foster and Demme will all be remembered. 10/10.

******
5 August 2005
9
I found this film extremely scary and haunting, even though the actual
violence wasn't overpowering by today's standards. In some ways, the
suspense and the build-up to scenes is quite "old school" and proves
that this approach still works. There are has been a lot of analysis
why this film is so powerful. One talks about how Hannibal Lecter only
appears for a very brief time in the movie, yet others talk about him
and build him up, how some of the set pieces refer to our deep
psychological fears...in the end, it works well, and I would highly
recommend it. I have read critics who say that the killer Clarice is
pursuing is too stereotypical, or simplistic. I would beg to differ: I
find that that character too is quite scary, though doesn't have the
three-dimensional nature of Hannibal Lecter. And what of Clarice? she
is brave, and even though it was made in the 90s, I think this film is
still one of the first I saw with a woman as lead detective. Full marks
to the script, and the book of course, because Clarice is quite
fallible, not perfect, and this makes the story more real and
unsettling. We're fighting in her corner, as it were, but we're not
sure if she will win, unlike other male-dominated movies. And one
personal quirk: watch out for Tom Petty's song, "American Girl", I
found the usage interesting, fun and ironic, and the song has stuck in
my head post the movie.

******
4 July 2005
10
I first saw "Silence of The Lambs" soon after it was released, as a
schoolboy. It was one of the first "mature" films I saw and to this day
the movie is kind of a benchmark against which I measure films. The
creepy feeling it leave you without trying any of the cheap tricks
(sudden loud noises, shots of copious amounts of blood ) that other
thrillers do. I saw it years later in 2005 and still loved it.The movie's strong point is Jodie Foster and Anthiny Hopkins' acting
skills ,again the benchmark against which I measure acting. The two
make a great team and that was missing in the sequel "Hannibal".This is a movie of many skins its a thriller, a detective movie, a
horror movie an entertainer and it deals with the nature of the human
psyche too. Not an easy feat to be so many things at once but the
director and cast pull it off.Certainly one of the best movies ever made.

******
20 April 2005
10
This film is shown almost on a daily basis on TV and I never had the
chance to finally see the ending of this picture. Jodie Foster,(Clarice
Starling),"Sommersby",'93, was an FBI Agent who had great insight into
a killer's mind and also had some very dark secrets about Lambs which
seemed to drive her crazy. Clarice had a difficult assignment from the
FBI to look into the brain of Anthony Hopkins,(Dr. Hannibal
Lecter),"The Human Stain",'03, who was a mental patient and had some
very valuable information the FBI needed in order to capture a horrible
killer. The acting by Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins were outstanding
in making this a 'Thrill-A- Diller' of a film story.

******
14 March 2005
10
The Silence of the Lambs is one of the most frightening yet intense and
intelligent films from the early nineties. The casting of Sir Anthony
Hopkins as the evil Dr. Hannibal Lector was a perfect choice and he won
an Academy Award for his 16 minutes of airtime. Jodie Foster deserved
her second Academy Award for Best Leading Actress in this film. Jodie's
Clarice Starling is perhaps one of the best female heroine roles of all
time. I enjoyed watching this film again on AMC with tidbits of
information on the bottom of the screen about the film-making. I would
have like to have seen more Diane Baker on screen. I would have like to
have known more about Dr. Lector's past too. The film always packs a
punch when you least expect it at the end of the film. Besides great
acting, directing, and writing, there is something unforgettable about
this film. You walk away wondering about why this happens and about the
monsters inside of them.

******
9 February 2001
10

Silence of the Lambs is a film that will always be memorable because of 2
things (in my mind)- 1, Hopkins brilliantly mixed type of Socrates meets
Dawn of the Dead zombie charicature and 2, an argument will go on like who
was the better Darren on Bewitched, Jodie Foster playing Clarice Starling
(and version of herself in 10 years Julianne Moore).  I feel that Jodie
Foster is very good here as a FBI agent who has to get in the mind of Dr.
Lecter (Faba beans and all) to find a killer.  Story latter patterned out in
The Cell, which while that was better, this film is a tad better than the
sequel by having you sqeam in your seat while getting memorable catch
phrases and (dare I say) laughs.  A little note (and not too
uncoincidentally)- Dead Director George A. Romero appears briefly as a
Memphis agent.  A

******
15 July 2011
10
I have seen some great movies, old or new. The Silence of the Lambs is
an amazing one, while not my personal favourite of the year of 1991 it
was a well deserved Best Picture win in my opinion.Jonathan Demme's direction is superb, the film is shot in a ceaselessly
atmospheric manner and Demme never lets the suspense drop. The story
from start to finish is enthralling, and the script is tense and
thought-provoking.The Silence of the Lambs is wonderfully acted as well. Jodie Foster is
the one who holds the film together and her performance here is one of
her most excellent, and I mustn't forget Ted Levine who is very
chillingly effective as Buffolo Bill. Anthony Hopkins however steals
the film, it is his perhaps most iconic character and he proves that
although he is in only a portion of the film his performance lives long
in the memory.All in all, amazing. 10/10 Bethany Cox

******
20 May 2008
9
Before I saw this movie Star Wars was my favorite film. I don't know if
my tastes suddenly matured or what but when I walked out of the theater
after seeing this movie for the first time I knew that Luke Skywalker
and the gang had been trumped.Anthony Hopkins was superb as Hannibal Lecter. I have never seen anyone
in all the years I have been watching movies seen an actor portray
intelligent insanity any better. I couldn't keep my eyes off the
screen. Many times when I go to movies I sometimes think of other
things that are related to the movie or not. In this film that did not
happen and it was due mostly to the performance of Hopkins. I was
thrilled that the film won the Academy Award for that year. I thought
the rest of the cast was great to. Jodie Foster is good in anything
that she chooses to take on and the casting was perfect for Buffalo
Bill. Ted Levine really fit that freaky hick part so well.I thought the pacing of the movie was great to along with the
cinematography which added to the suspense a great deal. Awesome
direction and execution throughout the whole movie. I would consider
this movie to be a must see for everyone interested in the thriller or
psychological genres.

******
26 November 2007
10
"Silence of the lambs" is one of the masterpieces of the last decade.
And does it have its reasons. First of all, it's entirely dependant on
the terror that gnaws all the way to the mind of the viewer. The
decline of the Human Being is magnificently chiseled with one liners
that amusingly depict the killers and psychopaths state of mind and
approach us carefully into a nature that is deformed, evil and sick of
the Man's putrefaction.The main spectacle is drawn between Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins.
Both entirely relevant to the movie, they produce a bright contrast and
with their performances they nail the feelings right and expose one of
the best duels on movie history. This duel, although, is not
conventional. Clarice Starling (Foster) will use Hannibal Lecter's
(Hopkins) profound knowledge of the criminal mind to capture the
infamous Buffalo Bill. But Hopkins will play a game in which their
personalities will engage in a retroactive combination, in a "quid pro
quo" mind spar: she will have to expose her most profound, hidden
secrets to Lecter, so he can also dispatch on his pleasure of analyzing
the suffering of others. Both of them reveal all of their character's
whole personality with their eyes: Foster is in constant pressure,
scared but facing the natural Hades with courage and Hopkins shows
human emptiness in his eyes, windows to what is a world full of
depravations.Ted Levine is truly scary. You get the impression that he is the true
Buffalo Bill, twisted and perverse. He shows absolutely no human,
recognizable aspect. He is a terrible villain.The movie will straightly envelop you in an obscure labyrinth where the
human mind is retorted and rotten, with a depressing score and settings
that are grey, murky and never joyful. One has to see it to get a close
approach on the dark side of the mind it or at least, to make their
spirit shake and tremble.

******
3 August 2007
9
It seems as though there is a serial killer out there who's grabbed the
daughter of a United States Senator and this guy has zoomed right to
the top of FBI's Most wanted. This man's modus operandi is to keep the
victims alive for a while before killing them so they're racing against
time to find him. Desperate situations call for desperate measures.The desperate measure is, you want to catch a serial killer, bring in
one as a consultant. That's why FBI trainee Jodie Foster goes to visit
Anthony Hopkins in prison. Hopkins is not just a killer who eats his
victims, he's a brilliant psychologist himself with insights maybe no
one else has.Of course his price are some cheap insights into Jodie Foster's soul,
thrills he probably got when he was in practice.The Silence of the Lambs in less capable hands could have just been
another cheap slasher flick. Instead the leads who walked off with the
Academy Awards for Best Actor and Best Actress give riveting
performances of a sick twisted psycho and a woman who became the
biggest feminist icon since Sigourney Weaver by confronting some demons
of her own. It's the best work that Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster
have ever done and let's not forget the Oscars won by Director Jonathan
Demme and the Picture itself for being the Best in 1991.A couple of players who made their marks on television later on also
score well here. Anthony Heald who was Buffy the Vampire Slayer's
handler plays the psychiatrist in the institute where Hopkins is
incarcerated and who Hopkins makes a fool of and says at the end he's
far from done with. Also Ted Levine who is Captain Stottlemeyer on Monk
plays the serial killer the FBI is trying to catch. Also look for a
good performance by Brooke Smith as Levine's potential victim.The Silence of the Lambs with its taut direction and riveting
performances has an appeal far beyond the horror genre. See it and
you'll know what I mean.

******
21 August 2006
10
SPOILERSThe Silence of the Lambs is the best movie ever created. It is based on
the book Silence of the Lambs and is about a FBI trainee seeking help
from a cannibal to try to catch a man who skins his victims. This is a
horror film that won the top 5 Oscars. The acting of Anthony Hopkins,
Jodie Foster, and Ted Levine is superb. Howard Shore's music is great,
and the cage scene and killing of the 2 officers is one of the best
deaths I've ever seen on film. Starling does get Buffalo Bill in a
terrifying night-vision scene. Overall , this is my favorite film of
all time and is a must-see for horror fans.10/10!

******
3 September 2005
10
I think there is not much to say, all who like thrillers know this one.
This is just so brilliant movie, Brilliant Thriller, more of the mind
than action. With spot on cast for this kind of movie, especially the
chemistry between Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster is great. And Jodie
Foster was perfect choise in her role,as she is known to be very
clever/genius and gifted, and was known this in her childhood.Very good example how good movie can be made around few things, if
people doing it are the right one. Last line is of course for great
Director who made this all possible.I hope there would be more like this, but todays lines in Hollywood is
not giving much a chance for that , its a shame.

******
24 June 2005
10
What can I say about "The Silence of the Lambs?" Besides the fact that
it's one of the greatest mystery films, great actors, and a great
storyline . . . . go and see it if you haven't.Clarise Starling and Hannibal Lector make a great pair in the movie.
Although some parts aren't for kids (as in Buffalo Bill and some
blood), it's a good movie to see if you're home by yourself if you want
to watch a mystery combined with adventure. Not many police films are
good to see, but this one wouldn't make you waste $10 or something like
that. Recommended to anyone who likes police/mystery films, Jodie
Foster, and Anthony Hopkins.

******
30 September 2005
9
The young FBI agent Clarice went to visit the in-jail horrible killer
Hannibal in order to solve the series-killer-case. Clarice was afraid
of him. She also had the psychological problem that haunted her from
the childhood. Although Hannibal treated her with consideration, what
he had done was so cruel that nobody could imagine. The strange
chemistry reaction happened between them since their first meeting.Hannibal's action embodied the complexity of humanity. He was gentle to
Clarice. However he was so brutal to the other people. You cannot
believe that was done by the same person. Sometimes we do know little
about ourselves.It was rare to see that a movie won the best actor and actress (the
academy award) at the same time. It just proved that it was Anthony
Hopkins and Jodie Foster made the movie so outstanding. No one can deny
their wonderful performance. The following Hannibal and Red dragon had
lost the original idea and could not achieve the astonishing effect
that TSOTL brought us.A thriller classic. 9/10

******
6 September 2005
10
I ate 'The Silence of the Lambs' up the first time I saw it and I've
gone back for more who knows how many times. I can clean my plate and
watch the whole thing, or just snack on certain scenes and be satiated.
It is fine dining.I admit it's a little bizarre, but if I'm in low spirits I sometimes
put *this* movie on to cheer myself up, especially if I'm depressed
because I've watched some garbage modern movie. The sheer perfection of
it never fails to raise me up a little, and the fact that it was made
in 1991 gives me hope that the current crop of Hollywood actors and
directors isn't unremittingly bad.The scenes between Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster are masterful,
they're like the cadenzas to a violin concerto. I've watched those
scenes by themselves about twice as often as I've seen the full movie.
To see them feeding off each others performances is beautiful, a feast
in itself, it doesn't even require fava beans or a nice chianti.But it isn't just Hopkins and Foster. There really isn't a poor
performance in the entire film, maybe it's because I'm biased and I've
seen it two dozen times but it seems like even the actors in the bit
parts are far above average. The bug guys, Miggs, the deputies at the
funeral home in Elk River, the chauffeur who "detests physical labor."Jonathan Demme's directing is so brilliantly subtle that it's easy to
overlook given the gripping story and the incredible acting, but the
last time I watched the entire movie I did indeed, "feel eyes moving
over Clarice's body." I'd read about this before, and undoubtedly
processed it subconsciously, but I'd never seen it so starkly. The fact
is that throughout the movie men are staring at Jodie Foster, judging
her, ordering her around, lusting after her, and finally trying to kill
her. This produces an undercurrent of suspense even in scenes that
don't necessarily have any other suspenseful elements.Finally, that they managed to do all this and still keep it so
realistically lurid is, to me, nothing short of amazing. The pictures
of the flayed girls, the bloody fingernail stuck in the wall of the
pit, whatever that thing is in the bathtub, it's all so marvelously
grotesque you get the feeling that certain too-polite elements of
society would love to shun it, but the film is so good that it demands
to be watched.

******
9 July 2005
10
If you want a movie to watch in the dark, look no further than The
Silence of the Lambs. Jonathan Demme's tense thriller combines
excellent actors and a wonderfully adapted screenplay to make, what
seems to be one of the best, if not the best, thrillers of all time.The film follows three main stories, those being that of rookie FBI
agent, Clarice Starling, the psychopath murderer Buffalo Bill and
imprisoned psychiatrist Dr. Hannibal Lecter, imprisoned for murder and
cannibalism. Clarice is sent to Dr. Lecter to attempt to gain
information on Buffalo Bill, because he was a former patient of
Hannibal, however all Hannibal is interested in is getting inside
Clarice's head. As the film goes on Clarice becomes more deeply
involved in the case, right up to the dramatic and excellent climax, as
well as Hannibal becoming more deeply involved in Clarice's mind.
Meanwhile Buffalo Bill continues his murderous spree, killing and
skinning women.This movie is like no other. It combines tenses scenes with a cast like
no other. Anthony Hopkins was born to be Hannibal, and why Michelle
Pfeiffer was originally suggested for the role of Clarice over Jodie
Foster is bizarre, but because Jodie Foster got the role, it doesn't
really matter. When it comes to violence this film is very intense.
There are some graphically violent scenes, however the worst violence
in the film is the mental violence. Hannibal's ability to destroy
someone mentally, is incredibly disturbing, and the films motives are
pretty full on. However this contributes to the films overall feel of
horror, which is why The Silence of the Lambs is one of the most
mentally frightening films of all time.Stars: 10/10

******
29 June 2005
10
Reasons this is so good:It has some of the best characters ever created embedded in a storyline
that is so famously crisp, and clever that to watch it even after 100
previous viewings is still an absolute delight. It is a film of sheer talent, Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins play
each others nemesis yet hide this in a tight net of trust and curiosity
over each others character. and I think the unbelievable potency of
Hannibal 'the cannibal' Lecter is so strong that to actually merge him
into reality is totally feasible. Jonathan Demme also pulls off such fantastic direction, that is
shockingly vivid and imaginative, and the atmosphere created with eerie
scores in the background and repulsive locations (such as Buffalo
Bill's house) is brilliance to a high degree. If you only ever watch
one film a year I suggest you watch this.

******
16 March 2003
10
The Silence of The Lambs explores the life and mind of Clarice
Starling, a female FBI agent who has a lot of issues to deal with.
Somehow by fate, she ends up meeting Hannibal Lector, and they strike
up a very unusual relationship. The most interesting parts in the movie
deal with the 2 of them just talking.The highlight of the movie is obviously Anthony Hopkins' performance.
He's delightfully creepy as Hannibal. The whole suspense of the
character is thinking he's about to do something violent, since
throughout the movie you only hear stories about the terrible things
he's done. When he finally does do something, it really pays off
because it's one of the scariest and most memorable parts in the movie.The Silence Of The Lambs appeals to many people. That's because it can
be viewed from so many angles, and that's why it's become a part of our
pop-culture. I'm not going to write any longer, because I'm having an
old friend for dinner.My rating: 10/10

******
4 January 2001
10

This film scared the crap out of me the first time I saw it, and
considering
how many horror/suspense films I had seen by that point, that's no small
matter. At the same time I was giving my nervous system a workout, I was
sitting there in awe of how well written the film was, how excellently
defined and sketched all the characters were, how intellectually
challenging
the piece was, and how unbelievably good Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins
performances were- thank God they both won Oscars. Frankly, I was
disappointed to learn that there would be a sequel, as I think this film,
and its story, stand so well on their own and need no elaboration. As
excellent and terrifying as JAWS, only with people... which is somehow
even
scarier, once you really start to think about. I worry the sequels will
run
the way of JAWS 2, 3D, and THE REVENGE.  

******
10 September 2011
2
Ever since this one came out I've been reading great things about it,
but I didn't get in that bandwagon as I always had the bugging feeling
this was just another proverbial ruler without a decent wardrobe. Also
I'm not great fan of Foster, neither I'm of Hopkins, but I decided to
give this one a try anyway as, even if I didn't have much expectations
I was willing to be pleasantly surprised by, fool of me, good plot and
decent acting. But what do you know, that 6th sense had kicked up
again. For 75 min. SOTL moves along in so-so territory, as there's nothing in
it that would make for a classic. The main story is one that I've seen
many times before, mostly in CSI, only difference being that here the
police is trying to enroll one nut into helping them to catch another.
But all parallels stop there. The characterization is practically
nonexistent and after 60 min. one still doesn't know a thing about
those cops, as they all act like the oh, so common, stereotypical, law
enforcers. As for the two nuts, they are just caricatures. One thing
that for 9 seasons made of CSI such a classic was the impeccable
characterization, right from to the bosses down to the scruffy guys in
the labs, thanks to the superb acting job by all involved--specially
Peterson--so much so we'd even mention them as if we knew them
personally. Granted, here they had only 2 hours but, please, how many
90-min. movies with unforgettable characters you can remember? This
flick is so bad character--wise that not even Foster's is defined by
her acting, behavior, but by the bits of life story she tells to
Hannibal!. As for Hopkins, he didn't impress me at all; he looks just
like another nut of the kind I see everyday in the street or the subway
and he's most forgettable trying to scare us with his bad ass stare.
Anyway, for 75 min. the flick slumbers along, barely sustaining itself
while totally lacking in atmosphere, tension or emotion.Then the plot dissolves into lameness and stupidity. I'm talking in
first place about Hannibal's escape. We are supposed to believe that
the tightest possible security measures have been taken--someone even
talks of calling the SWAT and cordoning off 10 blocks around-which
means they are aware of the risks he represents. Yet in Hannibal's
floor there are only two guards with no communicationradio, TV
monitor--armed with clubs and maze (while everyone else carry guns).
But it gets even worse: Hannibal flees in an ambulance disguised as a
wounded cop, implying that all present cops & medics are morons. Later,
when it comes to the part in the psycho's place the flick goes into
standard Hollywood crap: awful dialogs; general overacting; chaotic
camera work, editing--to give "atmosphere"--cliché antics by the lone,
enterprising heroine, etc. The flick ends up with an avalanche of feel
good clichésmost of the "law & justice prevail" kind, the only thing
missing there being the final romantic kiss.The cinematography is mediocre and specially bad in the scene where
they examine the body of a victim. Contrary to standards, they shot the
whole scene using--instead of wide or medium shots, to give us the most
possible info on the proceedings--one close up after another, specially
of Foster's, for no reason at all. What's the obsession with those
close ups that litter the whole flick anyway? After a while it gets
annoying. But this is just one of many flows. For ex.: what's the idea
of portraying the head of a mental institution as a spoiled brat? Why
the police ever expected to get a psycho on their side? And why they'd
give such a job to a kid who doesn't know how to handle mental
patients? Speaking of editing, those flashbacks of Clarice's dad are
terribly done.So, stay away from this one. Just another emperor....err, turkey in
emperor's clothes. 2/10

******
13 February 2008
8
Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) an FBI cadet is hired to try to
interview Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins). He's a cannibal and
VERY dangerous. Also there's a psychopath named Buffalo Bill kidnapping
girls and skinning them alive. Lecter hints that he knows who Bill is
and Clarice tries to find out...but Lecter is playing serious mind
games with her. I caught this back in 1991. I liked it but I thought Foster was just OK
and I found the story pretty confusing with glaring lapses in logic.
Seeing it now some 17 years later I still feel the same way. The film
is somewhat slow and I wasn't that scared or upset by it. Also Foster
(who's Southern accent comes and goes at an alarming rate) is just OK.
I'm really surprised that she won the Oscar for this. PLOT SPOILER
AHEAD!!!! There was also a lot of gay groups who complained that
Buffalo Bill was a transsexual. As a gay guy I wasn't offended but
other people were just horrified. END SPOILER!!! Still the movie isn't a total washout. Hopkins is just superb as
Lecter. He's downright terrifying at times. He's only on screen about a
total of 30 minutes but you always feel his presence. Also his breakout
(while completely illogical) is one of the scariest sequences I've ever
seen. The whole movie is well-directed especially during the final
sequence. Also it's the first horror film since 1932 to win an acting
Academy Award. Heck, it won quite a few! Best Picture, Best Supporting
Actor (Hopkins), Best Actress (Foster), Best Director and Best Adapted
Screenplay. So, it's a very good thriller worth catching...but Academy
Award material? I think it was a little overpraised.For horror fans there's an extra kick of seeing Roger Corman in a small
role!"...I'm having an old friend for dinner."

******
5 March 2016
10
Several months ago, I watched The Silence of The Lambs after hearing of
its notorious reputation as being one of the best films ever made.
After viewing this movie, I went on to view all other films in the
franchise (except Hannibal Rising) and also read every book in the
franchise (all of which were also fairly good). After thinking about
how much I loved TSOTL, I've felt compelled to write this review.
Anthony Hopkins delivers an extraordinary performance as Hannibal
Lecter, as does Jodie Foster as Agent Starling and as does every single
other actor/actress. It starts off by hastily introducing us to the
circumstances in which the film takes place and then slowly builds to
what can be described as multiple climaxes that occur over the course
of the film. No faults whatsoever. A brilliant film definitely
deserving of its place in the first 30 spots of IMDb's top 250.

******
22 February 2016
9
Silence of the Lambs (1991) follows the story of the young and
ambitious Clarice Starling in her attempt to apprehend the serial
killer named "Buffalo Bill" (Ted Levine). Starling goes to the infamous
Hannibal Lecter (nicknamed Hannibal the Cannibal for his exotic
tastes). Clarice relies on Lecter for his expertise and knowledge about
the mind of a serial killer. Whereas Hannibal toys with Clarice in
order to amuse himself. Clarice and her fellow agents are forced to
rely on the help of a killer in order to catch another.Jodie Foster does an excellent job playing the young and eager Clarice.
She portrays her Southern accent as often painfully obvious, which
Lecter pounces upon as an insecurity. Foster speaks with a wavering
voice at times, showing Clarice's inexperience and disgust with the
crimes committed by Buffalo Bill. Hopkins is completely absorbed into
the role of Hannibal Lecter. To create his creepy and psychotic persona
he stares unblinkingly, forcing both the audience and Clarice to return
his cold gaze. Hopkins keeps as still as possible while acting, looking
like a snake poised to pounce upon less intelligent prey, and in
comparison to Lecter everyone is less intelligent, and is therefore
potential prey. Hopkins keeps a soft smirk on his lips throughout the
film as if to say he knows something no one else does. The film's
soundtrack is absolutely haunting and mysterious. It works well with
the film to create tension and anxiety in the audience. However, the
director (Jonathan Demme) knows when silence is just as powerful. In a
tense scene in complete darkness we are left with no sound save for the
heavy breathing of Buffalo Bill. The cinematography is excellent for
this film. The colors of the film are gray and lifeless, which
complement the film's dark subject matter. At pivotal moments the
camera angle switches to first person. This view works perfectly when
Clarice rounds the corner and sees Lecter for the first time. We are
able to truly appreciate Lecter's piercing gaze, because we see it
first hand through Clarice's eyes. The performances of Hopkins and
Foster would have been flat if it were not for the well written script.
The small anecdotal stories about Lecter help to build his character
even before we meet him. Lecter's lines are meant to sound
sophisticated and cultured in order to create his paradoxical character
as a gentleman-psychopath. Buffalo Bill refers to his victims as "it"
in an attempt to destroy their humanity in another example of brilliant
writing. A key strength in this film is its character development. Not just
Lecter or Clarice's development, but their relationship itself. The
audience watches as Lecter and Clarice grow closer and closer in a
bizarre exchange not unlike two friends sharing secrets. As Clarice
learns more from Lecter, so too does Lecter learn more about Clarice.
The audience can see that Lecter values this relationship because he
does not hunt her down for as Clarice puts it, "He would consider that
rude". Silence of the Lambs is a gripping and disturbing film, filled with
fascinating characters. It remains a timeless horror film that draws
from the darkest and foulest corner of humanity's existence. It is a
terrifying movie because it reminds us that the monsters in our world
are not imaginary, but could pass us on the street any day.

******
18 December 2015
10
I have seen lots and lots of films, but none were ever so well written
like Silence of the Lambs. The characters are amazing and there is a
lot of shown development with them, especially with Hannibal Lecter,
who has to be one of cinemas greatest Villains. The film tells a
gruesome story that you want to leave your memory immediately after
you've watched it. The Silence of the Lambs is more a thriller than a horror. There are
few intense/scary/suspenseful scenes, but besides that it's just a
story of a creepy mystery. Beware an awesome plot twist awaits you.I'll would like to keep on writing, but I'm having an old friend for
dinner

******
5 December 2015
9
Trainee Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is recruited right out of
Quantico by Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn) of the Bureau's Behavioral
Science Services. He's investigating serial killer Buffalo Bill who
skins his female victims. He's interviewing imprisoned killers but Dr.
Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) refuses to cooperate. Starling is
sent to talk to Lecter.Director Jonathan Demme takes the serial killer genre onto another
level. It is brilliantly intense and brutal. It's a solid entry but
then there is Hopkins' Lecter. It is an iconic villain for all times.
From the moment he first appears, he steals the movie. It's rare that
somebody can produce a character that is so original and so memorable.
He is so impressive that he actually overshadows the penis-tucked
human-skinning lotion-basket transvestite serial killer. Foster is also
pretty solid. She brings a competence to the role that is needed for
the outrageous villains to shine.

******
1 October 2015
10
"People will say we're in love," jokes Lecter, as he tantalisingly
squares up young FBI trainee Clarice Starling in the tense first
meeting. The excellence in Demme's direction comes from knowing what to
linger on and what to hint at. He milks that first encounter of the two
leads to its extremes, leading a young Foster down into the underground
cells, past a room flooded in frantic red light (along with strict
instruction and warning) and finally along that long corridor. The
other prisoners leer and jeer as expected, but arriving at the end is a
glass cell and that still and unblinking monster in Lecter. This very
first conversation is impeccably shot; they trade blows and tight POVs
immerse us into their mind's inner sanctums, and as Clarice's thin
facade and accent is shattered by a few choice words, she is pushed off
centre, disorientated and vulnerable. The plexiglass walls augment the
atmosphere of unnerving intimacy between the unconventional pair. Like
several other figures throughout the film, Lecter's male gaze seeps
into the frame from front on and in extreme close-up, hungrily eating
up Clarice's insecure psyche and exposing the screaming of the lambs in
her dreams. Foster plays this part magnificently, not with acts of
bravado, but in the nervous addressing of a room full of male police
officers questioning her authority, in the low-class accent she tries
desperately to mask, and in her sense of honesty and goodness that sets
her apart and convinces Lecter to take a liking to her. "Don't you feel
eyes moving over your body, Clarice?" We experience this in the rather
nervous way her POV is presented to us, gazing absent-mindedly in every
new scene, scanning the surroundings, and trying to avoid the
sexualising and trivialising gazes of the male dominated law
enforcement agency, which she must navigate with self awareness and a
casual, tactful disposition despite it evidently worrying her. Lecter's
eyes are also fixated intensely, but not on her body. Apart from the harrowing monologues of the screaming of the lambs from
Foster, there are other ways that Demme increasingly notes her state of
mind. Her introduction has her determined in the midst of male power
and domination, no better expressed than when she enters an elevator
full of male agents a good head taller than her. Mid investigation, she
creeps over to the slightly ajar door, and with a smooth edit, we are
transported to her youth, her father's funeral that began the
terrifying downward spiral of her life. She makes the initial
breakthrough with Lecter and expresses her frustration at being used by
her superior, Jack Crawford, and the fading light within the tunnel is
forced back into the frame via the car mirror, opposite Clarice's
increasingly independence and wariness. And in that brilliant
misdirection just before the climax, two operations are crosscut with
the utmost precision, the complex man power of the SWAT take-down, and
the pleasant but curious face of Clarice, not yet aware that she has
stumbled onto Buffalo Bill.Opposite her is the demented yet strangely eloquent and intelligent
Hannibal Lecter, a character which Anthony Hopkins lifts into classic
film territory with his performance. When a golden pen is cast wayward
in the holding cell, we are given a moment's glance, like Lecter and
his eyes light up behind that grotesque and terrifying mask, Hopkins
immediately conveying his intentions. We fear him so much more for the
things unseen, our imagination going haywire as we witness him pull off
a bloodied mask of skin in the ambulance, or as we stumble into the
third floor with a officer hung up like a gory tapestry, or in that
final haunting credits sequence, as he plots the meal of his former
nemesis. Yet he remains staunchly interested in Clarice; in a fleeting
close-up where they exchange files, their fingers touch for the only
time in the film, yet we don't flinch, because strangely like Clarice,
we know that he means her no harm. It's a sort of agitated confidence,
after the brutality of Lecter's escape that flashes with terrifying
aggressiveness and disregard for human life. His advice and assistance steers Clarice into the terrifying climax in
the basement, the tensest sequence in the film. Shore's score simmers
menacingly beneath the surface as Clarice prepares to enter each room
of uncharted territory, the sound design magnifying each heavy breath
and gasp, as well as the faint cries of the kidnapped daughter and the
poodle's frenzied barking. As she kicks open each door, the camera
doesn't immediately peer in and reveal its empty non-threatening
contents, but holds onto Foster's panicked sweeping glance and brief
window of relief. This forbids us from gaining a foothold onto the
scene, and like Clarice we are constantly looking over our shoulder,
even more so when the lights are switched off and she is forced to
fumble around while the eerie night vision places us right in those
slimy hands of Bill. The dread is perhaps a little cheapened by the
slow-motion reaction and gunshot, but all the same, a film shows its
excellence in sustaining tension when you are forced to back away a
little. Here is the only horror film to win Best Picture, one which
drives the audience and the horrors of imagination along the edge,
brimming with nervous apprehension and fear. Best served with some fava
beans and a nice Chianti.

******
21 September 2015
10
"The Silence of the Lambs" is a film that was about 2 hours in length,
but it felt much shorter than that. It keeps itself entertaining,
especially when the two brilliant main villains are on screen! Anthony
Hopkins gives a awesomely creepy performance as the cannibal Hannibal
Lector, and Ted Levine plays Buffalo Bill, in a mildly comic, but still
quite terrifying performance with a subtle layer of sadness.Jodie Foster also does a pretty great job as Clarice Starling, and
deserved the Best Actress Oscar in my opinion.The score by Howard Score is absolutely lovely. The moodiness and
dreariness to the score really adds to the film's slightly sad, and
highly disturbing nature. I think it may actually be his best score
ever, and that includes the score to the LOTR trilogy, which is also
quite magnificent.The film is also very intense at times, mainly during the climax of the
film. And I'm not exaggerating when I say that the climax to this film
is some of the most intense stuff I've ever seen in any film. An
absolute 10, I can't imagine giving it a lower rating.

******
16 September 2015
9
"The Silence of the Lambs" is the first movie that won an Academy Award
for Best Picture to be widely considered as a horror film and the only
the second such film to be nominated in the category, with the second
film being "The Exorcist", released in 1973.In the film, a young US FBI trainer named Clarice Starling, seeks the
advice of the imprisoned Dr. Hannibal Lector to apprehend another
serial killer, known only as Buffalo Bill, a.k.a. Jame Gumb, who
murders young girls and takes their skin and uses it for something.The acting is amazing and the cast is all top-notch: Oscar-winner Jodie
Foster plays Clarice Starling and she is amazing. Oscar-winner Anthony
Hopkins did a great job as Hannibal Lecter and boy, is he so amazing in
that part. Ted Levine and Scott Glenn are amazing as well, but the rest
of the cast is amazing as well.This film is the reason why I put Hannibal Lecter on my Top 10 Favorite
Horror Movie Killers list and I think this movie deserved all of the
critical acclaim and praise and those five Academy Awards it was
nominated for.Clarice Starling and Hannibal Lecter appears on the AFI 100 Years:
Heroes and Villains, Starling appears at #6 Hero and Lecter appears at
#1 Villain.The script, music and other production values are all good and amazing
and I don't think a single person can hate this film.THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS gets a 10 out of 10.

******
8 September 2015
10
Silence of the lambs has to be simply put the best crime thriller of
it's kind narrowly beating out Se7en. The plot is unique in that FBI
cadet Clarice Starling has to investigate the brutal murders of the
Buffalo Bill serial killer by using the specialist advice of
incarcerated serial killer Dr Hannibal 'the cannibal' Lecter. Sir
Anthony Hopkins is that good as Lecter that you forget that he's not
actually the main villain in the film, which makes his escape all the
more shocking, and he brings a new layer to the character that Brian
Cox was slightly lacking. Jodie Foster puts in another top of the range
performance as the aforementioned, toyed with FBI cadet. Yet she
manages in certain cases it seems to hold her own and even rattle
Lecter. Jonathon Demme's direction is very good as he always keeps a
sense of realism in the film without holding back on the shocking
moments. This is a very deep and dark thriller that shouldn't be
watched by people with nervous dispositions. It has no equals in it's
own semi-genre, and has given new life into an all time legendary
character. A definite 10/10 if ever there was one.

******
4 May 2015
9
The Silence of the Lambs (1991): Dir: Jonathan Demme / Cast: Jodie
Foster, Anthony Hopkins, Scott Glenn, Ted Levine, Diane Baker:
Psychological thriller where the film's core regards interrogation of
evil without physical contact. Female victims are found skinned by
Buffalo Bill and Hannibal Lector is believed to be able to identify him
but every agent who has approached his realm of confinement has been
led astray. The Senator's daughter is kidnapped so a female F.B.I.
trainee is issued in hopes that Lector will give in to a female. We
learn about her through Lector's ability to trespass the mind. Shocking
thriller directed by Jonathan Demme who also made Melvin and Howard.
Anthony Hopkins brilliantly demonstrates Lector's sly methods of
penetrating the mind. He delights in toying with victims, which is why
his brutal escape occurred. Jodie Foster is excellent as the young
trainee haunted by her father's death. She is intelligent and brave
particularly when dealing with Bill in the shocking climax. Ted Levine
is monstrous as Buffalo Bill whose one breaking point arrives when the
Senator's daughter gets hold of his dog. Scott Glenn is standard as the
agent in charge of the case but instrumental at a wrong address. Diane
Baker plays a Senator whose daughter is kidnapped by Buffalo Bill.
Penetrating thriller will shock your nerves and silence your senses.
Score: 9 ½ / 10

******
30 March 2015
9
This film is beyond its time. The movie goes through the solving of the
death of a girl and the disappearance of a governor's daughter who the
new detective figures is connected to the most recent killings of a man
by the name of Buffalo Bill. The only person who could know anything of
the man is murderer Hannible Lector who is also a canible. The
detective and Hannible form an unique bond that no person has ever been
able to have with him. Without giving direct information, the detective
was able to to piece together the clues of where Bill could be located.
In the end they're able to capture him as well as the Governor's
daughter. What I appreciate most about the film is its ability to keep
one on their feet. From the moment that she walks down the stairs of
the jail to see Hannible to the moment she walks into Bill's house
alone. The best scene was for sure when Hannible was able to be escape
from the polices custody. It's ironic that for this one man they needed
two helicopters, a squad team and practically the entire police
department and he was still able to out smart them. No doubt in my mind
did this movie deserve every award it ever received.

******
22 February 2015
9
The Silence of the Lambs is a fantastic movie with a very well
developed storyline and an outstanding cast. It is a pure thriller and
likely one of the best ever made, it doesn't just rely on being creepy,
but also on strong performances which I don't think thrillers do often
enough. Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins's performances are absolutely
outstanding, Foster is a very likable and believable police officer,
and Anthony Hopkins completely becomes his character, Hannibal Lecter
didn't seem like an easy role to do, but he did it so naturally, with
no hesitation. This film won five Academy Awards and is only the third
film to win the Big Five, which it completely deserved, it isn't a
movie that you would expect to win Best Picture, but I am very happy it
did. Dramatic, terrifying at times and without a doubt, film gold, I
would recommend Silence of the Lambs to anyone looking for a good
thriller or drama. A young FBI agent must meet with a psychopathic serial killer in order
to catch one who is still on the loose. Best Performance: Anthony Hopkins Worst Performance: Anthony Heald If you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or
review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris

******
11 February 2015
10
I don't think I relaxed the white knuckle grip on the edge of my seat
from start to finish. This is what story telling is all about. It's
easily the type of film that whenever you catch it on t.v., you have to
watch it till the end, commercial breaks, time constraints and all.
Jodie foster impressed me more in this film than she has in any other
that I have seen her in. And to say that Mr Hopkins is what nightmares
are made of would really not be giving him enough credit for what he is
able to pull off on this film.The pace of the story, the soundtrack,
even the amount of violence that they decide to use or not use is so
well done in shaping this film.

******
9 February 2015
9
I read somewhere that Anthony Hopkins has little more than 15 minutes
actual screen time in a feature that runs just under two hours. For me,
whenever Silence of the Lambs is brought up I instantly think of Dr
Hannibal Lecter. This speaks volumes for how much of a powerful and
memorable performance he gives as one of the best villains of all time,
despite only featuring for around an eighth of the movie. His
performance/character is faultless and gives a completely different
approach to so many other villains we see in the movies, he is calm,
well educated, has an intelligent vocabulary, witty sarcasm and is
brutally honest. But on the other hand he is also intriguing,
disturbing and very uneasy to watch. The greatest thing about him
though is how he is caged off from the world in each of his scenes,
like a monster, he isn't accessible and comes across as untouchable.
The most baffling thing of all though is that despite Hopkins playing a
serial killer cannibal who is criminally deranged, you actually have a
strange sense of fondness towards him. At one point I felt myself
feeling sorry for him, how is that even possible? Hats off to the
creators and Anthony Hopkins for that to give the viewer that feeling,
quite the achievement!Jodie Foster gives an incredible performance and this is easily my
favourite out of all the roles she has played. She plays a young,
trainee detective who is extremely vulnerable and is struggling to deal
with the demons of her childhood. Buffalo Bill is a serial killer on
the loose and the FBI are running out of time to catch him, Jodie
Foster's character is sent to visit Hannibal Lecter to do research into
the mind of a serial killer. She visits him in his confined mental
institute where he is serving his life sentence. Hannibal Lecter starts
to mentor Jodie Foster and the few scenes we get of these two, either
on opposite side of reinforced glass are some of the most intense but
somehow touching scenes I have experienced.The plot is perfect and stays very grounded, it knows what it wants to
be and it stays true to itself throughout. It doesn't get over
complicated or take any unnecessary risks, it simply does what it needs
to and the actors do the rest with their fantastic characters and
script. There is one scene in particular that stays in my mind when
thinking of this movie and It is very tense and disturbing but shows us
just what we need to see, it isn't overly gory for the sake of it. This
is what Silence of the Lambs does so well, it is very graphic yet it
doesn't make you want to look away in disgust, instead it connects with
you very well.Silence of the Lambs has it all, it has a solid plot, characters with
depth and development, incredible acting, tension and a great script.
All it needs in my opinion is some more screen time for Hannibal Lector
as he really is a faultless villain but then on the other hand the way
he is used is subtle and could well be more effective because of this.
Silence of the Lambs is one of the greatest thrillers I have seen and
it deserves all the awards and accolades it has received over the past
24 years.9/10

******
11 January 2015
9
This movie was amazing. The dialogue was witty, clever and sometimes
chilling. The directing was beautiful and the acting was absolutely
superb. Jodie Foster was great as the the FBI agent Clarice Starling
who is on the trail of a serial killer. Foster was good but the star is
of course the magnificent Anthony Hopkins who steels the show with his
rolling eyes and taunting voice. Both actors deserved the Oscars
awarded to them. So did the director Jonathon Demme. The story was
great, the only clique was with the ending that has always bugged me.
The movie is an intelligent chilling thriller and there was this great
build up to something that didn't meet the audience's expectations.
Besides that everything about this movie was perfect. Highly
recommended.

******
31 December 2014
10
I absolutely loved this film, it was incredibly well acted, written and
paced. I was on the edge of my film throughout. I hadn't seen any of
the other Hannibal films, but this is not necessary.There was a perfect amount of back story and analysis to thrilling
parts. The creepiness of Hannibal was played brilliantly by Hopkins and
the clever but young and naivety was played equally brilliantly by
Foster. Clarice's willingness and ambition was clear, but that
eagerness put her in vulnerable situations. This was seen be Hannibal
and provided an enticing relationship between the two.Thoroughly recommend.

******
1 November 2014
9
Silence of the Lambs is about Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) a trainee
FBI agent assigned to get help from notorious psychopath Dr. Hannibal
Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) who use to be a respected psychiatrist to help
locate and find another killer Buffalo Bill who cuts his victims skin
off. The only catch is she has to give Lecter personal information
before he revels anything. After prominent senator's daughter is
kidnapped its a race agents time to try and save her but will Hecter
keep playing games? Silence of the Lambs is a really good movie they
make you care about Clarice Starling and know about her personal life
in a really cleaver more realistic way and not her just blurting it out
when necessary like you see in other films. Anthony Hopkins gives a
performance so chilling and powerful, you want to know what he dose
next every time he's on screen, doing this in a very calm and polite
manner (most of the time) makes it even more suspenseful. The other
serial killer in the movie, Buffalo Bill was just as gripping to watch,
a man who kills and skins young women was truly scary. One of the best
most suspenseful scenes iv ever seen, was near the end, a scene in
which they find Buffalo Bill which was for me the most scariest scene
in the whole move and props for the rest of the film for building up to
the that bit so well! Just as i thought it could all be all sunshine
and rainbows Clarice gets a call from none other than Hecter who ends
the call on a line that just makes you wanna watch more. Silence of the
Lambs is a great movie and even if it is just once, go watch it!

******
19 September 2014
10
One of the most famous serial killer films, and no doubt one of the
most theatrical. Hopkins' Lecter may be a showman, but it fits, and
Foster and Hopkins' game of show and tell along with Demme's tastefully
restrained but stylish direction raises the film above the average
serial killer/slasher fare. Watching Lecter in his cage, one gets the
impression of a naughty child living in a world of his own that he
cannot escape from and does not wish to, despite his escape from his
physical confines. Clarice Starling's courteous and increasingly
personal dialogue with Lecter suggests that a part of her may be
trapped in his world. Lecter consumes by his very nature, and both of
her decision as an FBI agent doing her job and Lecter's manipulation as
a cunning predator, Starling gives him something personal, and one gets
the feeling that despite the resolution in the finale, she's left with
an unresolved hunger and curiosity given to her by Lecter. The film
works well as both a thriller and psychological game. The cast is
pretty good all round, Ted Levine as the wild, crazed Buffalo Bill,
Scott Glenn as Jack Crawford, Clarice's mentor, who initially conceals
his agenda from her in order for her to fulfil it. Not a happy film by
any stretch, despite it's somewhat upbeat resolution, one leaves this
film with the impression that the lambs will never be silenced despite
the rescue of one.

******
8 September 2014
9
Spoiler alert: This review contains spoilers, revealing parts of the
plot.Have you ever seen a main character that both inspires and frightens
you at the same time? That's exactly what Anthony Hopkins with his role
as Hannibal 'The Cannibal' Lector accomplishes with his mind-blowing
performance in Silence of the Lambs. This film is one of the most
awe-inspiring thrillers ever produced on screen. It's deeply
psychological, with a strong story. The most amazing irony that this
movie delivers, is that you both respect Hannibal, but also despise
him. He has an incredible role within the film and Hopkins certainly
manages to portray Hannibal perfectly. All the credit to Hopkins for
the amazing performance. Jodie Foster portrays the role of FBI trainee
Clarice Starling, who certainly manages to put op a great performance
as well. We've seen here role as Clarice Starling portrayed by other
actresses in the sequels to Silence of the Lambs and none of them
managed to outperform her, or even come close to her performance in
Silence of the Lambs.This film is a really exciting thriller, with a lot of strong moments
that manage to keep up the pace, which is important to a thriller in my
view. Clarice Starling follows a special FBI training, until her boss
wants her to participate in a special task. He wants her to interrogate
the dangerous Hannibal, who is in prison for his cannibalistic crimes.
When she does, she seems afraid at first, but Hannibal shows his
respect for her and she starts being intrigued by Hannibal. The main
goal for the interrogations is to follow the trail of a murderer named
Buffalo Bill. This insane murderer kills and skins young woman, because
he's an insane cross dresser. They want Hannibal to help them with the
difficult case, because Bill used to be a psychiatric patient of his.
Bit by bit, Hannibal delivers some information, but he wants to hear
the live story of Starling in exchange. Agent Starling offers him a
fake agreement, put together by her boss, so Hannibal will give them
all the information required. But the prison guard Jack Crawford, a
rival to Hannibal, tells him it's a lie. Starling slowly starts to find
out more about this mysterious Buffalo Bill. Hanibal the Cannibal has
been locked inside a cage, but when two prison guards attempt to give
him some food, he manages to escape and murders both men. He then
manages to escape prison. Meanwhile, agent Starling ends up in the
house of Buffalo Bill and attempts to rescue the daughter of the
governor, but she gets trapped in a deep well, until the FBI discovers
and they are rescued. Starling isn't afraid of the fact that Hannibal
has escaped prison, because she knows he respects her and is too decent
to go after her. The strongest part of the film happens in the last
minute, when Starling receives a call from Hannibal and he tells her
he's not going after her, because that would be a pity for the world.Really strong performances by most of the characters. Buffalo Bill is
an insane murderer and his role has been portrayed very well. Hannibal
is really intriguing in Silence of the Lambs, which really adds up to
the film's quality. I'd go on and say this is actually the best
thriller that has ever been made.

******
19 August 2014
9
Directed by Jonathan Demme, based upon the novel by the same name by
Thomas Harris (1988), the movie takes us through a journey of
psychopath minds: the way they think, the way they justify their crimes
(even to themselves), the methods they use, and how the FBI works to
catch them. The movie has the seriousness and intensity that has been
entirely lacking in horror movies lately. It features two serial
killers, one who is an imprisoned criminal, Dr. Hannibal Lecter
(Anthony Hopkins), the other one nicknamed as Buffalo Bill by the FBI.
Clarice Starling(Jodie Foster), a top student at the FBI's training
academy is set upon the assignment of investigating Buffalo Bill, who
kills young women and removes the skin from their bodies for purposes
not revealed(Spoiler alert!).He is an amateur, has his weaknesses and
can be caught, although only someone who has begun to think like him
can defeat him. Clarice is advised by her boss Jack Crawford (Scott
Glenn) to interview "Hannibal the Cannibal" Dr.Lecter, to find out any
leads to track down Buffalo. Lecter being an interesting character
throughout the movie, is a prize-winning psychiatrist turned a killer
and cannibal who gently manipulates her mind and plays on her fears.
The intimidating intellect of Hopkins' character is also reflected in
his abundant wit, which he uses to provoke and torment his jailers and
later confuse the forces to get away. He remains an unrepentant killer,
almost as dangerous in his cell as he is on the loose. With his cunning
facial expressions and amazing telepathic performances, he's the
monster as genius, and Hopkins plays him with disturbing authority.
Cinematography and screenplay have very well put the seriousness
intended by Harris in his novel. A tale of bloody scenes, suspense,
deception, manipulation and a masterpiece for those longing to watch
horror movies.

******
3 August 2014
9
Hannibal Lecter is a psychopath that is way more intelligent than we
can comprehend. We get some memorable quotes from this movie. I don't
think this series needed a sequel ,but it was too epic not to try. I
know it was just to boost the revenue on the franchise. It keeps you on
the edge of your seat and constantly makes you say 'What really?".
Amazing performances by Jodie Foster and Antony Hopkins couldn't change
the movie even if i want to. I have to have 10 lines ayy. OK well Many
good movie start with a boom and a bang and a splash then a splat.
Boyhood is a great movie but is only playing in UK soil and that sucks.
I really wanted to see the epic 12 year making movie. Well that's my
time la

******
19 July 2014
9
"The Silence Of The Lambs" is famous for being Hollywood's finest
slasher film, a masterpiece of unblinking psychological gamesmanship,
but its best cuts were made in the editing room.Time is running out for psychopath Buffalo Bill's latest kidnappee.
Trying anything, the FBI sends a young trainee, Clarice Starling (Jodie
Foster), to chat up an especially diabolical serial killer now in
custody, Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins). The hope is the two
will hit it off well enough so that Lecter will help with nailing down
Bill's persona. But what starts out unsettling enough for Starling soon
becomes a real journey into fear."Silence Of The Lambs" has a great story, diabolical atmospherics, and
a stark visual template that pulls you in. But two things work for it
beyond these elements.The first, which is widely commented upon, is how everyone in this film
is working outside their comfort zones, all the way through to the
audience. Director Jonathan Demme did quirky, humanistic comedies
centered around redemptive themes. Foster didn't play cops. Hopkins
didn't play psychos or big-screen villains, unless it was a historical
figure like Hitler. Handing such creative people different hats and
making them work allowed for fresher, vital impressions.Second, and more critical, was the way "Silence" was cut. Looking at
the "Collector's Edition" DVD reveals scenes trimmed or edited out
entirely, employing plot elements from Thomas Harris' source novel. A
couple of dropped scenes between Starling and FBI lead investigator
Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn) are particularly involving, but the overall
subplot they work to establish, about Crawford's dispute with a nasty
superior and Starling's own line-crossing of FBI strictures, only
obscure what the audience cares most about, which is the relationship
between Hannibal and Starling and also the ongoing case of Buffalo
Bill.The first of these is really where "Silence" best delivers. So much of
the movie's cultural legacy rests in the exchanges between Starling and
Lecter as written by Ted Tally and delivered by Foster and Hopkins.It's a tense cat-and-mouse situation, not devoid of humor or pathos but
focused relentlessly on the core issue of stopping Buffalo Bill. What
motivates Lecter is not sympathy but his interest in Starling, both as
someone he rather likes and as a worthy opponent. "People will say
we're in love," he jokes at one point, and it's funny because it's kind
of true in a twisted way the movie is not afraid to develop, even if
the idea of an actual relationship between the two seems absurd, at
least in this iteration.While known as a slasher film, violence is handled very well. We see as
many murders actually take place here as we did in "Psycho," which is
not that many. More is done by showing less. Hitchcock would have
approved.Some aspects of the film keep me from declaring it perfect. The way
Hannibal makes his big play in Tennessee is too much of the Hollywood-
magic-villain variety, while Demme emphasizes Starling's discomfort as
a woman in a man's world in a way that comes off dated and pedantic
today. Howard Shore's music adds to the atmosphere but never gels as
anything with a character of its own.But when you watch the movie, all you care about is what happens to
Starling and what Lecter could do to her. And that is exactly what
should happen. The end result is a very involving, one-of-a-kind
experience.

******
12 July 2014
10
If you want to watch a scary film...this is it. Amazing directing
acting. Suspense...that you'll feel while watching every scene. The
heightening just keeps you on your toes and thinking throughout. There
is no way of figuring anything out and knowing the end result. Hopkins
is creepy as hell and Buffalo Bill is beyond comprehension. The style
of horror is tastefully done with a palate that stays breathable
wanting more from curiosity. I refuse to be a spoiler. Watch this over
and over to see the nuances in choices and process of each character.
Smart smart writing. The music is just perfect underneath it all. The
vulnerability is priceless. I am thrilled to recommend this!

******
25 May 2014
9
A story between a cannibal and an FBI student. Simply amazing.
Unforgettable. Clarice Starling is the young FBI student, who is set to
interview a very smart criminal. Her due is to find the man that killed
many womens. The FBI believes that the killings were all done by the
same man because of an odd Caterpillar that keeps appearing inside the
bodies of the victims. Eventually the FBI student Clarice connects with
the criminal, Hannibal Lecter. This is a movie that you can not miss.
This will be one of those movies that we will tell our children to
watch. With an amazing team. Joining Jodie Foster as Clarice Starling.
And Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter.

******
24 May 2014
10
A really great film that everyone should take out the time to watch at
some point in their life. We've watched this multiple times in the film
program at USC. It's a great film to break down and understand the
basic tenets of movie-making and storytelling. One of the best parts of
the film, in my opinion, stems from the adept chose of shots. We are
brought into the intimate world of Agent Sterling. We not only learn
about her past through the perceptions of Lector, but Jonathan Demme,
pulls into a world dominated by the sexual nature of men, and it's
viewpoint from the eyes of Sterling. Rather than opt for simple wide,
medium, and close coverage the director chooses to give us the vantage
point of the main character, especially through the copious amounts of
POV shots taken throughout the film. This is only heightened when you
realize Demme wanted the audience to appreciate the perspective of a
woman in an environment where men are prominent and dominant. Great
film.

******
3 February 2014
9
With The Silence of the Lambs, Jonathan Demme laid the foundation of
all psychological thrillers to come after it and also accomplished a
contestant for one of the best book adaptations in film history, as he
transformed Thomas Harris's entertaining and thrilling novel of the
same name into a visionary, absorbing, and stereotype-defying motion
picture that deservedly ranks among the prestigious trio of films to
have won the Big Five categories at the Academy Awards. It's one of the
very few thrillers (not horror films, as asinine Hollywood likes to
classify it) that improves with time, similarly to the Chianti Hannibal
Lecter mentions in the essential The Silence of the Lambs quote, as
it's neither a whodunit nor a howcatchem, but rather a study of
psychopaths' and serial killers' twisted states of mind. For doing so, Demme actually has two at his disposal, though only
Anthony Hopkins's shockingly stoic and sophisticated cannibal counts
among cinema's unforgettable villains. This film's actual antagonist,
Buffalo Bill, is quite fascinating himself and contributes to some
outstanding scenes, but gets a disappointingly amateurish exit, one of
the very few flaws The Silence of the Lambs has. While I'd not call it
a flaw, Jodie Foster as the film's protagonist is a bit overrated in my
book, being a relatable and strong heroine that manages to bear up
against Hopkins, yet not having overly interesting features herself.
The contrary is the case with the film overall, that may not satisfy
viewers looking for a good scare, but is a masterful look at human
emotions and, if that's not your cup of tea, also a splendid
psychological thriller.Another important factor contributing to making The Silence of the
Lambs a classic is its visual appearance, most inventive in the
parallel montage of a FBI squad kicking in the door of Buffalo Bill's
suspected lodging and Clarice, alone, knocking on the door of one of
Bill's acquaintances and the showdown, seen through night vision
goggles. Because of all this, The Silence of the Lambs can very well be
called the epitome of a psychological thriller and is setting the bar
for films of this genre until today, more than twenty years since its
release.

******
28 January 2014
10
We have seen many movies of serial killers as Jason, Freddy and we know
they couldn't be real, but Hannibal could be real, I'm not saying there
is a Cannibal that is named Hannibal and do they same things, but there
are cannibals around this world. Getting more into the movie the idea
of putting the cannibal in jail and taking the young agent into that
dangerous place where only real crazy people go is amazing, we got
vulgar and unrated scenes, thing I think it's necessary in a movie
because if it is a movie without something related to sex or something
like that it is not a good movie because a movie of this type of genre
has to be similar to the real life just because this movie wants to
seem as a true events movie, so we are exposed to that everyday, and
that is why I liked this movie too much. I like fantasy and sci-fi
movies too, nut this is not one of them so it has to contain things as
I said. Jodie Foster gives the best role in her career, they we see his
sacred face while she tries to find the final solution to the case, the
way she is scared when she talks to Hannibal and when she is very
arduous with other people. Talking about Hopkins, he is the only actor
that can make as Hannibal. The only bad thing of this movie were the
sequels, in my opinion, there should be only this and one more movie,
because many times sequels result very ugly. Finally, I rate this movie
10 over 10 because of the good actors, novel and screenplay.

******
23 January 2014
10
where do I start honestly?I've never read the books, but if there as good as the movie then I
will read them. The parts that had Hannibal and Clarice were the best
parts of the movie I loved the whole movie, but the cat and mouse game
was the best. I love the way they make Hannibal Lecter, this "monster" but at the
same time he doesn't like rudeness and when your "disrespectful" sorta
speak.I just love the Hannibal Lecter character in general and how they have
Anthony Hopkins playing the character, honestly if it were anyone else
I don't think I'd watch it. Anthony Hopkins just plays a very good
psychopath.Jodie Foster is amazing at playing Clarice starling. I thought her
character was amazing as well. usually when you have a women as a
detective or any other role they're very annoying and whiny, but
Clarice is kind of a tough character, she doesn't let a lot of things
get to her. This movie is just the definition of excellent movie. I find this movie
to be the best movie of 1991.

******
18 January 2014
10
It has been a good long while since I have felt the presence of Evil so
manifestly demonstrated as in the first appearance of Anthony Hopkins
in "The Silence of the Lambs." He stands perfectly still in the middle
of his cell floor, arms at his sides, and we sense instantly that he is
not standing at attention, he is standing at rest - like a savage
animal confident of the brutality coiled up inside him. His speaking
voice has the precision of a man so arrogant he can barely be bothered
to address the sloppy intelligence of the ordinary person. The effect
of this scene is so powerful that it underlies all the rest of the
movie, lending terror to scenes that do not even involve him.Like all great entrances in the movies, his is carefully prepared. We
learn that his character, Dr. Hannibal Lecter, is both a brilliant
psychiatrist and a mass murderer, known as "Hannibal the Cannibal"
because he eats his victims. He is already behind bars (and unbreakable
Plexiglas) when the movie opens, and indeed "The Silence of the Lambs"
is about the search for another mass murderer, named "Buffalo Bill,"
who skins his victims.Operating on the theory that it takes one to know one, the FBI agent in
charge of the case thinks Lecter might be able to provide useful clues
in the search for Buffalo Bill. But Lecter toys with most of his
inquisitors, or dismisses them, and so the agent hits on the idea of
sending in an untried young female trainee (Jodie Foster). Perhaps she
will appeal to the monster.Foster is inevitably upstaged by Hopkins' rich and gruesome creation,
but her steadiness and pluck are at the heart of the movie.Some interesting aspects have been provided for her character: She is
"one generation up from white trash," as Lecter correctly guesses; she
tries to disguise her hillbilly accent, and she has to muster up all of
her courage to order a roomful of lascivious lawmen out of an autopsy
room. The movie has an undercurrent of unwelcome male attention toward
her character; rarely in a movie have I been made more aware of the
subtle sexual pressures men put upon women with their eyes.We are frightened both because of the film's clever manipulation of
story and image, and for better reasons--we like Clarice, identify with
her and fear for her. Just like Lecter.

******
23 July 2013
10
This movie has special meaning for me. It was the first scary movie
that I ever saw -- and I wasn't supposed to see it. I was ten years old
and performing the role of Patrick Dennis with Shani Wallis in "Mame"
at The Candlewood Playhouse, when one night in the dorm where all the
actors were staying, I convinced some of the older actors to let me
watch it with them. I've never been so scared in my life (a close second would be when, at
the end of Sarah Connor's quiet and somber monologue that opens
Terminator 2: Judgment Day, a cyborg's foot is seen and heard crushing
a human skull). Anthony Hopkins' acting throughout the movie is a master class in how
to choose one, specific action to punctuate your lines. He does not do
much standing there in his cell -- and in fact, at Jodie Foster's best
moments, she is as still and specific as he is. It's almost that crisp
commitment from both actors more than anything else (the plot in
general) that induces both the fear and the pity we experience watching
the movie. At the beginning, we fear Dr. Lecter, and we pity Clarice on
her task to track down the current criminal Buffalo Bill from
interviewing the evasive and experienced psychopath in his cell...but
because of the specific and simple acting and a great script, that
dynamic certainly shifts, and by the end, our original assumptions are
perhaps tossed aside.

******
15 July 2013
9
Although everybody praises the performance of Welsh actor Anthony
Hopkins, this films gets a lot criticism for the same reasons. Some say
it wasn't scary, some say it doesn't match the book, some say all the
science is wrong... well. I have an answer for all that. And the answer
is really a question: who cares? I don't know if I'm really the only
one but this movie was not about the horror, nor the gross/creepy
factor. This movie was yet another movie about life. That's all. This
movies is quite an experience. And although some say that Foster's
acting was not good... her performance was convincing for me.This is, in fact, an all around great movie. It has a plot that keeps
you not only entertained, but also glued to the screen, seeking
answers. It has great acting. It has various lines of moral lessons. It
has charming characters, and cliché filled villains (Dr. Chilton is
actually a villain, didn't know if you guys... like... you know). This
is definitely a must watch for all times. An all around 9/10.

******
11 July 2013
10
I first watched this movie when i was a kid, and as odd as it may be
for a kid to watch, I also fell in love with this movie. The way the
story is told, the way they're all connected. The relationship between
Dr. Lecter and Agent Starling is one that has yet to be able to
duplicate well. This movie houses so many great actors and characters
and needs to be watched again and again. It was all masterfully done,
from beginning to end, you could almost sense what was going to happen
next, however they would do what you expected but better than you
anticipated. This movie is a classic and no sequel or prequel has come
close to the original. Julianne Moore is certainly no match Anthony
Hopkins. In my opinion this is one of the greats.

******
24 May 2013
10
If you need the movie script of SILENCE OF THE LAMBS you've come to the
right place. We have the biggest collection of screenplays, movie
scripts and movie books for reasonable prices.Visit us on:W W W . S C R E E N P L A Y S A N D M O V I E S C R I P T S . C O MA collection of screenplays, movie scripts and movie books to serve as
a resource for writers and actors and those who simply enjoy reading
movie scripts.Reading movie scripts which have been produced is the best tool for
your screen writing education.

******
10 March 2013
10
The Sixth Sense is close.I never really appreciated this movie in the 90s when I was still a
teenage but now grown up having viewed it about 20 times I am blown
away by Hopkins, Foster, the quotes, the suspense, Buffalo Bill and
just ALL the elements and dialogue in-between.Absolutely unreal. So compelling, so interesting and so scary. This
movie is my all time favorite horror movie, up there with Psycho and
the Shining but in my opinion more enjoyable then both. Psycho has the
best twist and is revolutionary and The Shining is more scary but the
Silence of the Lambs was rightfully deserving of Best Picture in 1990
and the Academy got it right.What is perhaps most amazing is that Anthony Hopkins is so scary, evil
yet he is a character you feel some empathy for and you really do not
understand why. His performance sticks with you even though he was not
in the film a terrible deal.The villain, serial killer Buffalo Bill is insanely creepy and does a
marvelous job acting here. One of the best climaxes I have ever seen.
The Score, The Direction, the Acting, and the Script are all amazing
here.This is a 10 out of 10 and deserves all the Oscars it got. Lambs is one of my all time favorites.

******
26 November 2012
8
This film is by no means a typical low budget slasher. This film is a
unique brand of crime and investigation where FBI trainee Clarice
Starling (Jodie Foster) is assigned the deadly task of hunting down the
notorious killer Buffalo Bill. However, to do this she'll need the help
of another psychotic mastermind, Dr. Hannibal Lector. Lector is a
clever but mad criminal, and this is made evident as soon as the
trainee and criminal meet. The acting is fantastic and Anthony Hopkins
makes the movie addicting. Buffalo Bill is also disturbingly creepy,
and his scenes are very difficult to watch.The Silence of the Lambs is a brilliant gem from start to finish,
sweeping four of the Oscars for 1991. Best picture, actor and actress,
and major Academy Awards are just some of the awards collected over the
year from this film. The film is definitely worth viewing not just
once, but multiple times as many people already have. The Silence of
the Lambs is a stellar, suspenseful, and altogether thrilling horror
film. To this day it is looked upon as one of the most disturbing and
horrifying films ever created. Everyone should see this movie, it's
well worth your time.

******
19 September 2012
10
There's no other way to describe this masterpiece. From the start I was
gripped by it's amazing camera shots, acting and music. Jodie Foster is
amazing in her roll as FBI rookie Clarice Starling. Anthony Hopkins is
just incredible, his roll as the monsorous Hannibal Lecter just blew me
away. The best part is definitely the part when Straling is
interviewing Lecter, this partis not only scary but very interesting.
Buffalo Bill on this film is also scary. He skins his victims to make
his "Woman suite. (You'll get it if you just it) Overall, this film is
dark, disturbing and very gripping. It will definitely keep you to the
edge of your seat.

******
29 August 2012
10
Silence of the lambs was nothing short of a brilliant masterpiece. It
is perhaps one of the most captivating and enthralling movies in
history.The cast was perfect, Jodie fosters Sterling was epic, but
Anthony Hopkins performance will linger and echo in our heads for ages
to come.He depicts the perfect ice cold cannibalistic psychopath. He
manages to be nefariously sadistic yet gentle and complacent at the
same time. The on screen chemistry between Hopkins and Foster is
remarkable. Hopkins manages to make Lector such an intricate and
mesmerizing character. Foster gives Sterling just the right amount of
timidness and courage.Easily one of the best movies of all time. This
film is perhaps one of the most successful Book to film projects ever.

******
14 August 2012
9
Anthony Hopkins creates a character who is intelligent, calm,
calculating, charming and.....he enjoys eating people. (a slight
personalty flaw !!). This is a completely compelling man...who loves
the "high arts", is articulate ...is a Doctor...but beef ,pork ,
chicken and lamb ..just don't "do it" for him. Dr Lecter needs that
pure unmistakable taste of homo sapien. The Lecter persona has become
as big as any movie "legendary character".(we must remember--of
course--he IS a monster !!) The movie does have a few flaws here and
there , but Silence of the Lambs is a really great psycho thriller.
Made in 1991, it remains a landmark motion picture. Hopkins was born to
play Lecter....One feels almost hypnotized when those bright eyes are
sparkling (or if he appears hungry).

******
26 July 2012
7
Manhunter is my Hannibal movie of choice. There aren't many to pick
from, but it's the kind of choice you're frequently confronted with and
says something about who you are; Alien or Aliens? So maybe this is
yours. These films, to get into it a bit, are an offshoot of the many
sophisticated threads that first came together in film noir (yet others
led to Lynch). The most self-evident aspect is that they are detective
films, but much more pertinently: they are about the effort to see and
investigate into a part of your story that you didn't know was so dark.
For Clarice, it's the screaming lambs and what it means for her as a
person (lamb lost in a callous world). They are about
twin-nested-worlds: the rational world of cops and forensic experts
where the mind attempts control over narrative, and the semiconscious
world of urges, self and powerful intuition that makes it all bubble up
in the first place.The detective can solve the case because she straddles both.So, these films have power because they're not just about the case or
cinematic criminology, that case which is usually wrapped in exotic
madness to make you, the viewer, want to keep looking for answers.
These answers horrify, assuming we are in sensitive hands, because that
madness has, as a fulcrum, actual human beings in pain. We're a long
way from Charlie Chan. The difference between detective and killer is
not moral right, but having discovered ways to reason with that part of
damaged self. Clarice has signed up for the FBI, and the FBI provides a
structure (note the staged scenarios in training that allow her to
exercise decision-making and control). Our anchor for the entire film
is in her world of controlled emotion.Manhunter is my type of film because of a spin that seems very powerful
to me; it ever-so-lightly transfers the anchor to the killer, in a way
that we understand that that guy breathes and covets in an actual word,
and that world has logic of its own, and that logic affects our logic
and vision. Because we spend time there in ways that make deep sense, his world of
latent visions deepens our own.Demme was not up to it here. So even though well-made, and even though
Lecter explains that Buffalo Bill is a child that was hurt, every
moment we spend in Bill's world is cheap and sensational. Demme goes to
lengths of the silly dance routine in drag, but not so much as a
glimpse inside the skin of that man. There is no real shift of vision
from the comfortable quest to destroy evil to a more ambiguous nature.We're just not in sensitive hands here. Because we're not, the sense of
lurid spectacle spills over the entire thing: from Lecter's prison
block that looks like a medieval dungeon, to the extended crosscutting
between houses in the finale that sensationalizes the bleeding obvious.It's sophisticated and heartfelt on Clarice's end of investigating
herself, but on the other end it's a silly potboiler that looks like a
Texas Massacre sequel. It captivates but it doesn't deepen.

******
26 July 2012
9
Jonathan Demme's masterpiece stands out as one of the greatest films of
all time. It is distinguished in every aspect. The direction, the
writing, the acting... all superb. It captivates, disturbs, and
fascinates the viewer. This is a film that plays on the senses; on
fear, on imagination, and on emotions.The director's visual style paints a dark, bleak, yet colorful world
that depicts the ugly side of humanity. The story itself is phenomenal.
It is intriguing, unsettling, and is told so effectively. The cast is
its strongest point. They are what make this film unforgettable.
Anthony Hopkins is a powerhouse in this film, dominating the role of
Hannibal Lecter, with his leering stare and his creepy demeanor.Yet
there's a charm and wit that draws you in. You forget that he's a
psychopathic killer. Jodie Foster is incredible. She gives her
character so much depth. She disappears in her role with her subtle
mixture of strength and vulnerability. Ted Levine deserves more
recognition for his role as serial killer Buffalo Bill. He is so
disturbing and appalling in this film. He gives a chilling performance. The scenes with Foster and Hopkins are undeniably the strength of this
movie. Hopkins picks away at Foster's inner demons, forcing her to open
up her troubling past. In exchange, he reveals more and more
information on the identity of a notorious serial killer. Foster's
desperation does nothing to budge Hopkins from his request, and her
vulnerability is more and more present as their scenes progress. They
are both remarkable in this movie.I highly recommend this classic if you've never seen it. It hasn't aged
at all, in my opinion. The failed attempts at cinema today make this
film even stronger today than it was in 1991. It is truly a
masterpiece.

******
17 May 2012
9
This is one of those films that sticks with you. The psychological
horror of Anthony Hopkin's Hannibal Lecter is like a thick fog that
remains in your head, sticking to the corners of your subconscious in a
way too few villains have ever managed. It's one of those
career-defining roles that, having seen someone so naturally take it
on, you cannot imagine anyone else stepping into. Having read Thomas
Harris' fantastic novel beforehand, this was one of the biggest selling
points to me. As anyone who has read the book(s) can tell you, Hannibal
Lecter is an extremely deep and complicated character that demanded an
actor capable of both sophisticated mannerisms and a terrible
underlying nature of pure evil. The moment Jodie Foster's Clarice
Starling meets Hopkins' Lecter, you can see it all in the intense gleam
of his eyes.As a best picture winner, this film was righteously recognized for it's
strong merits of precise storytelling, incredible lead acting from
Hopkins and Foster and a strong supporting cast, and most of all for
truly engaging the viewer in it's atmosphere of horror. The little
touches round out the fantastic experience, from Lecter's disturbing
facial appliance to Clarice's slow unveiling of her troubled past and
Lecter's bizarre way of showing his empathy and affection, all the way
to Ted Levine's superb portray of the psychologically disturbed Buffalo
Bill.A movie that still gets under your skin all these years later, it's a
crime if you haven't seen it. A brilliant film from beginning to end is
rare enough, but when it also features a character who was destined to
be one of horror's iconic faces, it becomes a legend in the making.

******
30 March 2012
9
Silence of The Lambs is a white knuckles, edge of your seat story of a
young FBI agent's attempt to track down a serial killer with the help
of another. (Jodie Foster) plays Clarice Starling, an FBI agent who is
haunted by visions of her father's death when she was a child. She is
sent out to find Buffalo Bill, a killer who skins his victims for
reasons unknown to anyone until the near end of the movie. Helping
Clarice is the incarcerated cannibal genius, Dr. Hannibal Lecter AKA
Hannabal the Cannibal, beautifully played by Anthony Hopkins. This
psychotic mastermind knows who Buffalo Bill really is and only agent
Starling knows this. The two have kind of a pact in a you help me, I
help you, manner. This is one of my favorite movies because of the
sheer terror that Anthony Hopkins makes you feel the first time you
meet his character in an insane asylum, (what a great actor). I
recommend this movie to any fan of psychological thrillers, ones that
make your skin crawl when think, "what if that really happened." I give
this film a 9.0 out of 10.0.

******
28 March 2012
9
"The Silence of the Lambs" is one of the greatest cinematic
achievements of cinema's history. Every single element contributes to
create a disturbing and unique atmosphere, and I use very carefully the
word 'unique'. I highly doubt anyone was reminded of a villain with the
same caliber as Dr. Hannibal -with the chilling rhyming nickname-
Lecter, masterfully personified by Anthony Hopkins. I doubt anyone
remembers a similar movie where a young, vulnerable and
non-Ellen-Ripley looking girl doesn't play the victim, nor the hero's
love interest, but the actual heroine. Clarice Starling, as a FBI
trainee is played by Jodie Foster, in a performance subtly combining
feminine vulnerability and heroic tenacity. And no one would have
expected the film to have a binary structure with a classic
serial-killer's investigation in one hand, and a subplot involving one
of the greatest movie villains of all-time and his interaction with the
heroine, on the other.The script is tightly constructed, patiently leading us to assemble
each piece of the puzzle until the series of interactions between
Clarice and Hannibal approaches a disturbing truth. The relationship
between the two leads is even more fascinating because it deepens their
personalities and allows us to get more and more in their background :
the wounds in Clarice's past, the mystery around Hannibal Lecter, and
the roots of evil that inspired the serial killers' acts. And this is
where the freshness of the film relies on : its capability to put
everything into perspective and invite our perceptions to go beyond the
simple 'good vs. evil' dichotomy. The villain are no sharks, no
monsters, no possessing demons, they are everyday men, like some Norman
Bates with an extra level of savagery and pervert creativity and we try
to understand to better fight them.

******
3 March 2012
10
Anthony Hopkins gives one of the absolute best movie performance ever
as Dr. Hannibal Lecter, like he was born to play the role. Even though
Brian Cox played the role earlier in Manhunter a prequel to Silence of
the Lambs(which Hopkins later re-did in Red Dragon), but Hopkins just
makes you think no else should've ever attempted to play this role
other then me. Since no one else is ever going to do as good at the
role so even trying to do so is a futile effort.Jodie Foster starred as young FBI agent Clarice Starling who goes to
the facility that Lecter is being held to interview him to get help
find another serial killer, Buffalo Bill.Silence of the Lambs is one of the few movies to win the Academy Awards
for Best Picture, Best Director(Jonathan Demme), Best Actor(Hopkins)
and Best Actress(Foster).One of the best suspense movies ever made.

******
25 February 2012
10
There is something about this film that will continue to haunt me
forever. Perhaps it is the idea that someone like Lector could actually
exist. That thought exists due to the phenomenal acting of Anthony
Hopkins. While there are many actors whom I would enjoy the privilege
of sharing time with, I think to this day if I were to meet Anthony
Hopkins, I would like it to be in an open room with plenty of people.
That is how convincing his portrayal of Lector strikes me, and I know
many people who feel the same way. Scott Glenn's portrayal of Jack
Crawford is cool and calm, exactly what you might expect of a senior
agent and department head in the FBI. Jodie Foster's portrayal of the
ambitious Clarice Starling is as compelling and haunting as Hopkins',
which would account for both of them winning their respective Academy
Awards. Demme and the film itself also received Oscars, as did the
screenwriters of this exceptional film. The film itself is superbly
written, perfectly cast, and splendidly presented in every aspect.
Details are important to Demme, obviously, so important that filming
was done at Quantico for the academy shots, using actual FBI personnel
in the training sequences. Perhaps the most riveting quality of the
film is the portrayal of Buffalo Bill, and the ability of Ted Levine to
carry off that twisted and complex role. Ted shows us how innocuous
evil can be, and presents it with such flair and elegance we can
imagine such a man being in a rural town like that, hiding his crimes
beneath a veil of anonymity and isolation. Rated R for violence,
language, gore, and some partial nudity, this is definitely not a film
for the kids or even the young teens, if you ever want them to trust
your neighbors and you live in a small town. Collectible? Without a
doubt, one of the finest dramas ever brought to the screen.

******
22 January 2012
9
Buffalo Bill, a psychopath kidnapping and murdering young women across
the Midwest.Clarice Sterling, a young FBI trainee is sent to Baltimore
state hospital to see an inmate, Hannibal-the Cannibal Lecter, known
from his cannibalism he used on his victims.He could help getting to
the trail of another psychopath.The Silence of the Lambs (1991) is
directed by Jonathan Demme.It's based on the famous book (1988) by
Thomas Harris, which I haven't read.Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster
are just the right persons to play the leads.Scott Glenn is great as
Jack Crawford.Terrific work from Ted Levine, who plays Jame Gumb,
"Buffalo Bill".Anthony Heald is very good as Frederick Chilton.Brooke
Smith is great as Catherine Martin.Diane Baker is marvelous as Senator
Ruth Martin.Charles Napier, who passed away last year, is superb as Lt.
Boyle.Also great job by film director Roger Corman, who plays FBI
Director Hayden Burke.And musician Chris Isaak, who plays SWAT
Commander.The movie doesn't lack in suspense, or anything else for that
matter.Lecter's escape scene is something to remember.The movie has
very intense last minutes, the moments in the dark.This is a classic of
psychological thrillers.

******
9 July 2011
9
I'm not sure how anyone could disagree that The Silence of the Lambs is
the greatest Hannibal Lecter film ever made. This is one of the highest
quality horror films you will ever see. It's got an intense story,
riveting characters, and incredible actors. The film takes place years
after Manhunter. Lecter is still behind bars and he is once again
called upon to assist in tracking down a disturbed serial killer. This
time it is young FBI agent Clarice Starling who is assigned to talk to
Lecter and with his information track down Buffalo Bill, a serial
killer who kills young women and then skins them. But once again there
is only so much trust you can put into a cannibal, and Lecter
complicates things while at the same time giving subtle and vague clues
to Clarice that might help track down Buffalo Bill. This is one of the
most disturbing and psychologically grotesque films ever to grace the
world of cinema, but it is made so well and with such expertise that it
becomes a work of art rather than exploitation.This is one of those films where every aspect falls into place so
perfectly it is as if you are experiencing everything the characters
are as it happens, rather than just watching this film unfold. Right
off the bat the movie grabs you with its stern sincerity and you can
immediately feel the tension that rises throughout the film. Through
the beginning of the film we develop a perfect sense of the tension
within the film and the dread within the characters. Then we reach
Clarice's first meeting with Hannibal Lecter and the films true
haunting intensity comes out. At that moment the film becomes a
nightmare that grows darker and darker with each clue that leads
Clarice closer to what she sees as the ultimate evil that she is going
to face, Buffalo Bill. She doesn't even know that the true evil is
Lecter himself, but he is behind bars misleads Clarice to think he
isn't as threatening. We the audience of course know that he is a
bigger threat than any Buffalo Bill, but somehow we forget this because
we are so compelled to feel as Clarice, our innocent and tormented
protagonist, feels. It is a sinister trick the film pulls on us because
it works all too well.This film relies a lot on shock value, making us remember every last
disturbing image we are forced to witness during it. This film engraves
itself into your mind and there is no way to escape the horror elicited
by it. This is a movie that tortures you and makes you feel more than
you've probably ever felt during a horror film. And yet it isn't a
movie that draws out fear through cheap thrills. Every horrifying image
you witness is meaningful and furthers the plot, driving us through the
terror straight ahead to the film's explosive conclusion. This movie is
what I consider to be truly scary. It instills true fear rather than
just frightened amusement. It is masterful in its suspense building and
ingenious in the placement and moderation of its thrills. We see a lot
of grotesque things in The Silence of the Lambs but there are still
things we don't see that make it even scarier.Through its incredible script, excellent direction, and superb acting
this film establishes itself as a masterpiece. What really makes this
film is definitely Anthony Hopkins portrayal of Hannibal Lecter. It is
so perfectly haunting in a calm and sedated kind of way. There is
nothing over the top or ridiculous about his character or Hopkins
performance. It is totally believable which makes it that much more
disturbing. It is easily one of the best film performances ever and a
huge part of what makes this film incredibly terrifying.I don't hesitate to call The Silence of the Lambs one of the scariest
films ever made. Its tension and its suspense make it so terrifyingly
gripping that once the film has a hold of you it doesn't let go. Few
films can instill fear the way this film does. I have to commend it for
actually scaring me while refraining from being an over the top film
full of cheap thrills and easy scares. This film is a horror
masterpiece.

******
2 July 2011
9
The finest movie I've ever seen. Hannibal, the mere sight of him makes
me scream like a girl, he is so dangerous. You would be shuddered by
the way he speaks while to top all that he is a cannibal. The film
trilogy is one of the finest series I have ever seen. Be it be, Jodie
Foster or Julianne Moore or any other it has always be an amazing
experience watching the brutal yet genius psychopath at work.He knows what you are thinking, he knows when you are lying, he knows
the way a psycho thinks because he is the ultimate psychopath. Dr.
Hannibal Lecter, the name brings you the shivers. The fact that he
devours human flesh is horrifying itself.No one could do it better than Anthony Hopkins! No wonder he got an
Oscar for the role.While Jodie Foster is busy finding a psycho killer Buffalo Bill, she is
asked to take every aid she could get from the god of Psychos himself,
Dr. Hannibal Lecter(Anthony Hopkins) who used to be a well known
psychiatrist, who is a cannibal yet a genius at comprehending the human
behavior. Pretty queer interests for a top class shrink, eh! He is
ready to help her only if she lets him wade through her inner soul so
as to assist her as well. She is forced to comply every now and then
with his witty sarcasm as she has to win his confidence to acquire as
much assistance possible to capture Buffalo Bill before he 'skins'
another(Watch it to comprehend the patterns).Everything about the movie was wonderful. The way Anthony studied his
subjects; his sarcasm, his accent and vocabulary were all captivating.The movie's screenplay is the most apposite screenplay ever. The pun
like 'I'm having a friend for dinner' is one of the finest lines that I
can bring back to memory.The one directed by Ridley Scott(Hannibal), however, wasn't as good as
those directed by Jonathan Demme and Brett Ratner(Red Dragon) but then
again it was Thomas Harris altogether, so no comments there.Awesome flick, the greatest thriller and suspense movie of all times.
I'd be a fool if I wouldn't suggest you this one. Go for the trilogy
today!

******
18 June 2011
10
Silence of Lambs is a crime thriller produced in 1991 by director
Jonathan Demme. The screenplay was written by Ted Tally, taken from the
novel written by Thomas Harris. Jodie Foster as Clarice Starling, is an
FBI cadet who is assigned to interview the psychopathic serial killer
Dr. Hannibal Lecter played by Anthony Hopkins. Starling gains the
confidence of Lecter, a former psychiatrist turned killer/cannibal, in
order to obtain information which may lead them to a serial killer
tagged by authorities as "Buffalo Bill," who is killing and skinning
women. During the interviews Lecter psychoanalyzes Starling and in
turn, he states as "quid pro quo," offers clues which lead her to
Buffalo Bill.The theme of this film focuses on plot; good guy trying to catch bad
guy. Within this basic theme is an underlying theme of change. This
theme is characterized by motifs, or patterns that are repeated.
Symbols of metamorphosis are present throughout the story. The killer
is trying to turn himself into a woman by sewing together pieces of the
women's skins. He places a cocoon, the embodiment of change, in their
mouths when disposing of the bodies. When Starling kills "Bill," played
by Ted Levine, a twirling picture displays a butterfly that appears to
fly as it twirls. Silence of the Lambs has a similar theme to the crime thriller film
Se7en, produced in 1995 by director David Fincher. The theme of Se7en
also focuses on plot: good guys after bad with an emphasis on human
depravity which is symbolized by each murder. Victims are chosen by the
sins they commit. Both films delve into the psychological profiles of
both the killers and the detectives. The use of color, particularly red, in the film foreshadows dramatic
scenes that are relevant to the theme. The first time Starling goes in
to see Lecter the lighting at the basement entrance is red and directed
from the side giving a sense of foreboding. The room in which Bill
performs his sewing contains lots of red objects. When Lecter is on the
ambulance gurney (everyone believes it is the police chief), the strap
across him is red. When Mr. Crawford, Starling's boss (played by Scott
Glenn) is on the plane to Chicago, the lighting in the plane is red; as
well as the van when the police stage a delivery. Sound is also used in this film to help in building suspense and
highlight theme. The most dramatic use of sound in this film was the
doorbell scene. The police are raiding the house in Illinois and ring
the doorbell. The buzzer goes off in the basement at Bill's house. At
the same time Starling is ringing the doorbell at Bill's door. At
first, you are not sure which house Bill is in. The relationship between Starling and Lector is a driving force for the
story. The use of color, sound, and motifs emphasizes and builds on the
theme, which in turn creates the dramatic and suspenseful effects used
in developing the plot of Silence of the Lambs.

******
2 June 2011
10
"The Silence Of The Lambs" is an incredibly gripping psychological
thriller that leaves you on the edge of your seat all the time. The
film is about a very vulnerable FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Jodie
Foster) who is sent by her instructor (Scott Glenn) to go and seek out
information from a very brilliant and psychotic imprisoned serial
killer named Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) on
tracking down another serial killer known only as "Buffalo Bill" (Ted
Levine) who skins his victims. Soon after Starling and Lecters
interview Buffalo Bill abducts 25-year old Catherine Martin, the
daughter of the US Senator Ruth Martin. Clarice soon after tells Lecter
that if he tells them who Buffalo Bill is in time to save Catherine
Martin the senator will transfer him to a better prison. The acting in
this film is superb, Foster and Hopkins have great chemistry together
they also won Oscars for there roles. Ted Levine also gives a
phenomenal performance, he plays Jame Gumb perfectly. This film has
some of the best scenes ever showed on film. the climax of the film of
the film was done perfectly it lasts for about ten minutes and it
leaves you on the edge of your seat and biting your nails. The very
last thing that happens in this film is also don't perfectly and is one
of the best endings ever. Overall this film is my favorite film of all
time, a brilliant physiological thriller, a must see for those who
haven't 10/10

******
13 May 2011
10
This film is often criticized for its treatment of using homosexuals as
the bad guy, but when watching this film, I could not even think of
political standpoints. I was so engrossed with how well made the film
actually is. Anthony Hopkins (In his best role to date) plays Hannibal
Lecter, a devious former psychologist turned cannibal with a brilliant
mind. When a serial killer stalks the Midwest called Buffalo Bill, the
FBI recruits a trainee, Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) to visit
Lecter. Their main goal is to get Lecter to help them capture Buffalo
Bill by looking into him psychologically (Bill skins women, and the FBI
doesn't know why). Thus, starting a relationship between Lecter and
Starling. Not a love relationship, a personal info relationship:
Starling must reveal secrets about her past in order to get Lecter to
talk. This film is by far one of the most deftly made suspense movies
ever made. With Jonathan Demme's crisp, point of view direction, we see
through the eyes of the character and this gives us a sense of how they
are feeling. Winner of five well deserved Oscars (Picture, Actor,
Actress, Director, Adapted Screenplay) , Foster and Hopkins leave this
film by giving us a chill down our spine and a heart that is still
beating from unbearable suspense from the finale.

******
24 April 2011
10
The Silence of the Lambs (1991) reigns supreme as one of the greatest
thriller movies of all time. Jonathan Demme reaches cinematic
perfection by combining writing, direction and acting of the highest
calibre together to form a classic that blows the usual mediocre
thriller out of the water. The film tells the story of young FBI Agent
Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) and her quest to help find the serial
killer Buffalo Bill. To find Buffalo Bill, Starling requires the help
of Dr Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), a brilliant psychiatrist who
is imprisoned for his cannibalistic behaviour.The Silence of the Lambs is excellent in all aspects of production and
form. The dialogue is crisp, poignant and always essential, resulting
in a film that is pulse-racing and highly absorbing. The presence of
pretentious or stilted dialogue is negated early on in the movie,
Clarice referring to a contrived reference as "too hokey for Lecter".
Never a dull moment, the Silence of the Lambs is masterfully
suspenseful as Hannibal Lecter is always one step ahead; his
omnipotence, humour and theatrics providing the audience with a villain
that is as charming and likable as he is perturbing. The performances
are incredible; Hopkins unforgettable as the cannibalistic Lecter,
while Foster is compelling as Clarice Starling, playing the young FBI
Agent with understated confidence and assertion. Clarice is created as
a feminist character with incredible subtlety; she remains unfazed by
the advances and gazes of on looking men throughout the film, focused
solely on prevailing in her male dominated field of work and uncovering
justice. The chemistry between both of the actors is undeniable,
Clarice's freshness and subtlety boding well with Hannibal's abrasive
and supercilious behaviour.Twenty years on, time does not appear to have worn upon the Silence of
the Lambs, Demme's masterpiece still considered as one of the greatest
psychological thrillers of all time. With strong performances, an
intense score and a no-nonsense script, The Silence of the Lambs
elucidates the seemingly forgotten art of story telling to create a
film that is captivating from start to finish, and chillingly lingers
in the mind long after it has been viewed.This superb film rates a 10/10 from me. I do wish I could review
longer, but I'm having an old friend for dinner...

******
10 March 2011
10
"Silence Of The Lambs" is really that kind of movie that gets under
your skin and lays eggs. Doesn't sound appetizing, but that's pretty
much the point. It's a very vile and intense film, it's filled with
dark, unnerving scenes that make you feel dirty for watching them. The
tension just never goes away, it never gives you a moment to lay back
and relax. Anthony Hopkins has surprisingly little screen time, but
somehow his uncomfortable presence is always felt. Damn those prison
scenes are ominous, downright unpleasant to watch really. Jodie Foster
is pretty brilliant too, even with her much-ridiculed Southern accent
she still gives a stellar performance. The climax is also everything
you expect and more, excellent to say the least. To me this is one of
the best and most exciting thrillers ever made.

******
24 February 2011
10
Silence of the lambs is by far one of the best thrillers there is.
Agreed there isn't much violence on this movie, that makes it better.
That's what separates it from other thrillers. This film focuses more
on the psychological side of human behavior and how an event in ones
past ripple through the rest of their lives. Jodie Foster and Antony Hopkins deliver outstanding performances. How
one can't like this film is beyond me. Antony Hopkins is the scariest
man in a straight jacket and his on screen relationship with Jodie
Foster is so deep, that you can almost imagine being in the room with
them.The music is brilliant, same as cast, location story and the entire
film is one that, if you are a true film fan, will have on their
shelves. Also it is as good as the book. And I don't say that often!10/10

******
22 February 2011
9
Jodie Foster stars as FBI Agent Clarice Starling who's on a mission to
track down a homicidal maniac, but only the sneering cannibal Dr.
Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) is the only person who knows his
whereabouts. But his presence is luring and quite intimidating so
getting into his head shouldn't be an option. With supreme intelligence
like Stephen Hawking and diet that will put Jeffrey Dahmer to shame,
Lecter has the delight in manipulating his victims through his
diabolical mind games.Kindly, Lecter obliges to Clarice in helping with her investigation if
she joins him in his little web of mind games. but the catch is she
must reveal her personal background about her and he'll do the same.
The horror genre in the movie isn't some dark, scary macabre individual
going on a joyful killing spree, but a chilling, manipulative supremely
intellectual individual who's desires is to play games with the medulla
oblongata. He's got the gift of smelling one's fears and knows exactly
where to strike at you, psychologically. There's even a good chance
that the psychopath Agent Starling is after might even be twice as
crazy as Lecter. But Lecter's motives are so convincing and executed to
perfection by Sir Anthony Hopkins that the room temperature in the
theater got a bit colder than usual.With the instincts of a snake, Lecter starts then starts to slurp.
Hopkins later reveals it was improvised just to add more intimidation
to the character. This role as Dr. Lecter brought this relatively
unknown British actor exceptional fame and Hollywood started to take
more notice from this middle-aged performer. Lecter himself has
identical similarities to Boris Karloff's 1934 movie "The Black Cat" in
which Karloff plays a demonic Satanist. Instead of making Lecter an
evil, ghoulish monster who goes on a killing spree, he takes the Norman
Bates route and plays a monster in the form of a sophisticated
gentleman. Sure he gladly helps Clarice, but at cost of haunting her as
well. Sure he's not as bad as we are lead to believe, but you can't
help taking your eyes off the screen when he comes on.What was fortuitous about the release of "The Silence of the Lambs" was
released at the time cold-blooded cannibal/serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer
was making the headlines. Both stories were quite identical to one
another as they both lured their audience with gripping and chilling
effects. Therefore, it is safe to say that "Silence of the Lambs" gets
us into sorting out connections to find a convincing explanation as to
what drove Dahmer to be the way that he is. Unlike other psychological
thrillers, this one will have you pondering to yourself over what kind
of connection this movie has to the Dahmer story. The real shortcoming
here is that audience at the time wanted more, as in more Hannibal.
Well it took 10 years in the making and in 2001 "Hannibal" was
released. And even though Dahmer is rotting in hell, Hannibal will live
on into ours minds forever.

******
6 February 2011
10
"Silence of the Lambs" is a movie based on finding a serial killer.
During the search for the killer, the FBI (Federal Bureau of
Investigation) (The Silence of the Lambs, 1990-2011) enlists a student
from the FBI's academy Clarice Starling (played by Jodie Foster) by
Jack Crawford (played by Scott Glenn). Clarice is one of the top
students at the academy, and Jack feels that she is the key to getting
an incarcerated murderer to help find the killer. Sen. Ruth Martin's
(played by Diane Baker) daughter Catherine (played by Brooke Smith)
kidnapped by the serial killer and everyone is doing everything they
can following leads to save her. This serial killer finds girls who are
a certain body size in order to use their skin, which does not become
known until later in the movie. Clarice gains some trust with the Dr.
Hannibal Lector a very intelligent, yet deranged individual who kills
and eats his victims' body parts. Clarice plays Dr. Lectors game of
"Quick pro quo" and answers his question to each of his questions.
Playing the game she is gaining his trust and following all of the
leads he gives her, she finds that there is a deal between Sen.
Martin's office and the government which is then signed by Dr. Lector
with the doctor at the prison ward responsible for Dr. Lector's (Demme,
1991). Dr. Chilton (played by Anthony Heald) is an arrogant person who
needs to make himself more important than he is. Therefore, in doing so
he allows Dr. Lector to escape shortly after he is transfer to a
holding cell built in the middle of a gymnasium. Meanwhile, Clarice and
the FBI are following leads as to where the senator's daughter is.
Clarice ends up in one location while the FBI ends up in another. This
is the awesome scene in the movie where Clarice is at the door of Jame'
Buffalo Bill' Gumb (played by Ted Levine) the house appears to be a
normal house from the outside view, however, once she is inside the use
of the lighting is spectacular. Clarice starts to question Buffalo Bill
whom then starts to get nervous then tries to shoot Clarice. During the
chase of Buffalo Bill, she is lead to the basement, which is more of a
dungeon with and old well present. That is where he keeps the girls he
takes until he makes sure their skin is perfect for his use. In the
dark, Clarice feeling her way around while Buffalo Bill is where night
vision goggles. The filming of this scene must have been very difficult
because if any lighting were incorrectly used there would have been
shadowing cast thus, losing the appearance of total darkness. The
ending of this scene is a justified shooting of the killer Jame
"Buffalo Bill" Gumb. The ending of the movie moreover you realize the
true impact that Clarice had on Dr. Lector who is still loose, when he
calls her to congratulate her on her graduation from the FBI Academy
(Demme, 1991). This movie is similar to the movie "Green River Killer"
(2005), in the aspect of the determination to apprehend the killers
(Lommel, 2005). Agent Jack Crawford and Clarice Starling (Silence of
the Lambs) and Detectives Dawson and Cole (Green River Killer) show the
same type of fortitude in the cases portrayed in these two movies.

******
30 October 2010
10
Truly a masterpiece of a Horror/Thriller. Anthony Hopkins as the
cunning, smart, torturing Hannibal Lector and Jodie Foster as the
quick, spirited detective make a good batch up in this fine film. Ted
Levine also does a gory job at the insane Buffalo Bill.Alongside with other great Horror Films such as "Child's Play",
"Halloween" & "Cape Fear" Remake, this has got to be one of the most
creepiest, most intellect films i have ever seen in years.Anthony Hopkins especially can protract his character well onto the
screen as he is only in the film for 15-20 minutes.Silence of The Lambs is an unforgettable, chilling, memorable and
awesome film that I put on my top 10 List of Films. This film would
instantly get a 10/10 for it excellent plot, lovable characters, creepy
quotes and memorable scenes.

******
15 October 2010
10
It's hard to fault a film that is this widely loved. Thankfully I don't
need to.What can I say? Great acting. Awesome score. Some of the most tense
sequences I've seen in all of horrordom.I know they've made sequels and prequels to "Silence of the Lambs" but
there's no need to go any further than this one.Anthony Hopkins is a marvel. He underplays the killer and it's hard to
imagine anyone creepier. Can you imagine this guy living next to you?
This is another example of why I love the Halloween season so much.And Jodi Foster makes a major impression as the well-intended FBI agent
who becomes Hannibal's unwitting assistant. Is it respect or love or
fatal attraction? That's left to the viewer to decide.

******
14 August 2010
10
after hearing about this movie a lot from my friends, i finally managed
to see this film and although i wouldn't say it blew me off but even
then it was a great movie-watching experience.every great movie has its 1 strong point that separates it from the
others and make that film stand out. it could be the story, the script,
the cinematography etc. but for this movie without a doubt it was the
acting performances of its lead actors. through 'hannibal lecter',
anthony hopkins creates a character that is unforgettable. scott glenn
and jodie foster also put in strong performances.the script of the story is based on a book which i haven't read but
whenever this sort of a thing happens, you find the script lacking and
this happens here too. although you may not feel this but at some
points you feel that a little bit more insight could've been useful.
one particular situation is easily predictable(may be i have seen it in
many movies after that). the cinematography and background score are very good as you expect
with any technically good movie. the use of close range shots to
showcase lecter is very well done.the direction of this movie is very good with attention played to every
bit of detail and sailing the movie off smoothly. a few scenes are
absolutely chilling and leave you star-struck with their way of
depiction. also i have to say that it is one of the most clever titles that i have
heard.in the end i just want to say that this movie is a one that shouldn't
be missed for a great performance by anthony hopkins.

******
12 August 2010
10
A psychopathic serial killer known as Buffalo Bill, is kidnapping and
brutally murdering young women. After several victims have come up, but
no luck in catching Buffalo Bill, the FBI sends Clarice Starling (Jodie
Foster) to interview a demented, yet brilliant prisoner named Dr.
Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins). Hannibal used to be a very respected
psychiatrist, and FBI agent Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn) believes that
this genius prisoner can help them into locating Buffalo Bill. But
before Starling can get any information out of Hannibal, she must gain
his trust, and then the hunt will begin.The story to The Silence of the Lambs was brilliant in every way
possible. When I first started watching this it seemed as if it was
just going to be your typical mystery film, But in no way was this
movie typical. It is packed with surprises, plenty of suspense, and
some of the most unforgettable characters that you will rarely see in
movies such as these.Anthony Hopkins gives one of the best performances I have seen, and it
is easily his career performance. As soon as this movie was over I
instantly became a huge fan of him, and since then I have always
enjoyed his movies, whether I thought it was a good film or not.
However, I think because of the unbelievable acting on the part of
Anthony Hopkins, people often overlook Jodie Foster in this film. Even
though her performance might not have been quite as jaw dropping as
Anthony Hopkins, it was still in my opinion the best of her career, and
for an actress like her that is saying quite a lot.Overall, The Silence of the Lambs is probably in my top 20 best films
of all time. It absolutely blew my mind. If you have not seen this
movie, then I recommend watching it as soon as possible, because I can
assure you that if you are a movie fan you will like it.

******
16 July 2010
10
Winner of 5 Oscars, Silence of the Lambs remains a dark, sinister and
chilling tale with a chemistry between the two main leads that has to
be seen to be believed.Rookie FBI agent Clarice Starling (Foster) seeks advice from the
brilliant and cannibalistic psychiatrist Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins) for
information on a new serial killer named "Buffalo Bill" who has a
perverse habit of skinning his victims.Hopkins puts in a career best performance as the titular Doctor,
providing us with one of cinema's most creepy and cold-blooded
characters, his voice gets under your skin and stays with you forever.
Foster is equally as superb as the rookie student, her vulnerability
giving way to hardened and steely resolve during the cat and mouse
climax.However, it's Ted Levine who steals the show as Buffalo Bill, his
sexually-frustrated nature is enough to make even the most hardened
viewer shudder (THAT dance).Chilling, goose-bump inducing and compelling, Silence of the Lambs is
still one of the most decorated and riveting thrillers of the 90's.

******
13 July 2010
10
The1992 Academy Awards was a very specific year in the acknowledgment
of great film-making, and all because of one movie, one movie that
accomplished something that very few other movies have. Sweeping all
five of the major Oscar awards including Best Picture, Best Director,
Best Actor, Best Actress and Best Screenplay, Jonathan Demme's "The
Silence of the Lambs" is a thriller, a horror, a psychological study
into the mind of the serial killer, and a very powerful example of what
film can turn out to be when actors, writers and directors are all at
the top of their game.Clarice Sterling (Jodie Foster) is a young FBI trainee who is pulled
out of training and assigned the case of finding a serial killer named
Buffalo Bill. She is sent to the mental institute to gain insight on
the character by interviewing another serial killer, the notorious
Hannibal Lecter, or "Hannibal the Cannibal", played by the great
Anthony Hopkins. While Hopkin's gave one of the most chilling and
disturbing portrayals I have ever seen, it's Foster's performance that
keeps this movie rolling. Clarice has a troubled past, full of fear and
repressed memory. Hannibal is the monster she is trying to learn from,
but he is not going to give her anything without something in return,
in this case, access to her deepest, darkest secrets. The relationship
between these two figures is tauntingly fascinating. There's a certain
poetry involved here and it's so provoking to watch. Some may call this
chemistry, but I think it's just two talented actors with and an
equally talented director playing their part, and doing one hell of a
job.Despite my gratitude for both actor's performances, if I had to choose
which one I'd call my favourite, it would have to be Jodie Foster as
Clarice Sterling. I fell in love with Foster after I saw this movie.
Every time I think of her now I think of those old-fashioned clothes
and burgundy shoes. I think of her amazingly delicate portrayal of a
woman haunted by her past yet still trying to save the life of a
teenage girl. Which reminds me, one thing that was really nice to see
was that it wasn't a man trying to save the day for once, it was a
woman. Almost every other Ameircan movie I've seen it's always been a
man saving the damsel in distress. There was never a time where a woman
got to have the acknowledgment or the parade, and I think Johnathen
Demme picked up on this fact and expressed it as another theme to the
movie. Close to the start of the film when Clarice was on her way to
the office for her assignment, she walked into this elevator and she
was surrounded by huge blokes, it made her like the smallest thing
ever. It was quite funny, and I think it really said something. Clarice
was a woman working in a man's world, guys would often chuckle or
question at her presence, and occasionally even sexually harass her in
mild ways. Witnessing all this it makes you think that there's
something to prove here and that it was going to be interesting to find
out how it would manifest into a final ending. Jonathan Demme is probably never going to be able to do something like
this ever again. It's possibly my most favourite film ever, but if not
it's certainly in my top 3. It's perfectly acted, perfectly written,
and perfectly directed. This is a top-notch movie that for me scores a
perfect 10 / 10, no doubts, no regrets, AWESOME!

******
9 July 2010
10
Naive young female FBI agent (Jodie Foster), trying to gain an insight
into the mind of a serial killer, seeks the help of imprisoned serial
killer and psychiatrist Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) to track
him down.These vivid characters, brilliantly acted, linger in the mind for a
long time. Hopkins approaches his role as Lecter with something like
gleeful gratitude; he makes it look like an actor's long-awaited dream
come true. In its way, this tense thriller is a masterpiece, even if
viewed from behind the sofa. In 2006 at the Key Art Awards, the
original poster for the film was named best film poster "of the past 35
years".

******
18 March 2009
10
So I recently had a conversation with a friend who is ten years younger
than me about the relative merits of the new wave of horror thrillers
and remakes (Last House On The Left, The Hills Have Eyes, Halloween,
etc.). She is a fan of the genre but remarkably she hadn't seen this
film. We watched it together and she was understandably blown away.
"That might be the most tense climax I've ever seen on film!", as she
put it. I figure moving into Hitchcock is the next logical step, but I
digress.It's still amazing to me that the Academy deigned to recognize a
psychological thriller that opened in the first quarter of 1991, and
not only that but made it the third film ever (and so far the last) to
sweep all 5 "major" awards. But the appeal of Silence of the Lambs has
little to do with its critical accolades. This is a film with
deceptively subtle themes, a brilliant screenplay and superb direction,
and two of the most outstanding performances in film history. All
thrillers since owe a debt to SOTL and probably could learn a thing or
two about the power of sustained tension and suspense from it, instead
of the "gotcha" sensibility of modern horror.The story follows Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster), a fresh-faced FBI
agent with obvious ambition, as she becomes involved in the case of a
serial killer named Buffalo Bill. Bill has a predilection for skinning
his victims, and other bizarre character traits which become apparent
later. He is also exceptionally smart and due to a lack of evidence,
the FBI can only glean a pattern of his crimes but nothing about the
man himself. In desperation, her boss Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn)
suggests that she seek insight from another notorious killer, Dr.
Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins). And that's when everything is really
set in motion.One of the most overlooked aspects of SOTL is the buried symbolism of
America. Director Jonathan Demme and his DP Tak Fujimoto use heavy
reds, whites, and blues all throughout the film. Sometimes, the tinted
effect emphasizes tension; other times, danger. Aside from the opening
training sequences in Quantico, you'd be hard-pressed to find many
well-lit bright shots. A key scene in which Bill takes another
unsuspecting victim is foreshadowed by that victim singing Tom Petty's
"American Girl". Location and colloquial dialects of many characters
are extremely important in highlighting American culture. There is
definitely an "only in America"-type of recurring motif. If The
Godfather represents The American Dream, SOTL is The American
Nightmare.Another brilliant choice that Demme makes is to use a lot of closeups
with no camera movement on Clarice and Hannibal. He trusted that his
two actors, with such compelling facial expressions, could handle the
material and they don't disappoint. Much has been said about both
Foster and Hopkins' work here so I won't repeat much, except to say
that Starling's vulnerability vs. Lecter's unflinching, probing gaze is
one of the fundamental reasons that the film sustains so much pressure
and both actors are marvelous in some excruciatingly emotional scenes.Finally, the screenplay elevates the material to that of a classic.
Consider how strong a character Clarice is. She is not submissive to
her superiors, who initially dismiss her talents because she is a
female with no real experience. However, though she starts out as a
timid, passive agent her strength of will and perseverance shine
through and eventually HER efforts lead to the resolution. She also
refuses to succumb to Lecter's psychological torture, and that is why
he finds her so intriguing and continues to push her deeper and deeper
into her rawest emotions. Rarely has there been such a well-developed,
strong female lead in all of film history. On top of all that, the
screenplay affords equal time to Buffalo Bill, a decision that makes
him all the more interesting since we see and learn of his process,
methods, reasons, and true brutality. The night-vision climactic
standoff is so effective precisely because we truly care about Clarice
and genuinely fear for her safety if she fails.In short, instead of watching the high gore, low impact crap that
passes for a good horror thriller these days, you could do much better
and see one of the most effective and revered movies in the genre. With
edge of the seat tension, powerful imagery and a chilling masterclass
of acting by Anthony Hopkins (in only 16 minutes of screen time!) along
with great work by Jodi Foster, Silence of the Lambs is rightly
considered among the best of its kind. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm
having an old friend for dinner...

******
28 February 2009
9
What makes The Silence of the Lambs, which won the Oscar for Best
Picture of 1991, a classic? It's not the story, involving a serial
killer kidnapping a senator's daughter. There's nothing wrong with this
story, but it's rather the characters that make this movie so memorable
and powerful. Anthony Hopkins plays Dr. Hannibal Lecter, one of the
greatest villains in movie history (if not the greatest), a perceptive
psychiatrist turned cannibalistic killer turned prisoner. Jodie Foster
plays Clarice, an FBI trainee who gets to know Hannibal, hoping he can
help her with a current serial killer case. Hopkin's performance is
mesmerizing. He's intelligent but a monster. He's frightening because,
as Crawford tells Clarice, "you don't want Hannibal Lecter inside your
head." But Clarice lets him inside her head, and breaks a number of
other rules regarding how to talk to Hannibal. As Hannibal asks Clarice
for details on her personal life, their meetings become a sort of
twisted therapy, developing Clarice as a character and allowing Foster
to deliver an impressive performance of her own when telling her lamb
story.The Silence of the Lambs is compelling, and frightening. The moth is
creepy. Lecter's escape scene is, for me, the scariest thing in the
film; his face is calm as he's killing the guards. The movie ends with
Hannibal free again, a cliffhanger ending that (unfortunately) resulted
in a disappointing sequel ten years later. The Silence of the Lambs is
one of my all-time favourite films.

******
1 February 2009
9
Its brilliantly made dark psychological thriller which gave one of the
most dangerous character of Hollywood cinema - 'Dr. Hannibal Lecter.
The movie is a screen adaptation of best selling novel by the same name
written by Thomas Harris. Clarice is FBI trainee goes to interview Dr
Hannibal the cannibal to solve the puzzling serial killer Buffalo Bill
who skins his victims & keeps them in a pit in his basement. The
current captive is US senator's daughter & Dr. Hannibal is the only
available clue of the case. Its interplay between Clarice & Dr.
Hannibal which made it unsettling thrill ride of 2 hours. As he helps
to solve Buffalo Bill case, he digs deep into Clarice's hidden psyche.
Every technical aspects of the film are just immaculate & gives you
thrill feel from the beginning to end. It's waste of words if I say
much about the performances since the film swept the Oscars, winning
Best Actor (Anthony Hopkins), Best Actress (Jodie Foster), Best
Director (Jonathan Demme), Best Picture, & Best Adapted Screenplay (Ted
Tally). This is the third film who won Oscars in all 5 major
categories; the other two were- 'It happened one night' & 'One flew
over cuckoo's nest'. Hopkins won the Best Actor despite being in the
film for about 30 minutes, may be the shortest screen appearance for
any best actor winner & that itself proves that Anthony Hopkins has
delivered his best in it. I have watched 'Red Dragon' & 'Hannibal' made
in the same legacy of this one but after watching this today I must say
this will remain matchless classic.Ratings-9/10

******
13 January 2009
8
Silence of the Lambs is one of the most gripping and chilling
crime-thrillers ever made and is based on the critically acclaimed
bestseller by Thomas Harris. The movie deserved its five Oscar wins.
The genre does not get much better than this.Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is a young and attractive FBI trainee.
She is called on an "interesting errand" by director Jack Crawford
(Scott Glenn) to try to make a profile of Dr. Hannibal Lector (Anthony
Hopkins), an imprisoned and insane former forensic psychiatrist. There
is also a killer on the loose who kidnaps and skins young women, known
as "Buffalo Bill"/ Jame Gumb (Ted Levine). Hannibal Lecter offers to
help capture him before he kills again.Hannibal Lecter is simply one of the most unforgettable villains in
history. Hopkins's portrayal chilled many audiences (including my
mother lol) and became a phenomenon. Hopkins deserved more recognition
than an Oscar! Jodie Foster was great for the part. She also deserved
her Oscar. Her and Hopkins make a good acting duo.Ted Levine was creepy as Jame Gumb. His accent made me crack up
sometimes. He portrays the homicidal maniac to a horrifically authentic
degree. I can hardly stand to watch in his little "dance sequence". The
characters all together are simply unforgettable.As the case with most of the Hannibal Lecter movies (with the exception
of "Manhunter), "Silence of the Lambs" sticks close to the book. The
book and the film both can't be compared to other books and films of
the genre. I think most if not all audiences will be pleased.8/10

******
28 November 2008
10
Silence of the Lambs has Jodie Foster, a vulnerable, inexperienced FBI
student with a mind as green as the terrifying Hannibal Lecter, the
Cannibal whose cunning head helps the poor FBI find a missing "big"
girl. What more can you ask for? This film is genius. Jodie Foster and
Anthony Hopkins together in a film as mature and sick as this? I was
completely satisfied with the film because in general, it's a good film
with a good plot, excellent acting and good story flowing. The acting
and the atmosphere of the Cannibal really has an impact on you while
you're watching and you can do nothing but shudder every time you see
Hannibal, with the freaking smile and voice he has. This is also one
the few films that actually scared me, mentally. Again, it's a mature
film, with a sick and gross plot. If you can handle some extreme stuff,
both perverted and psychological, watch this film and you'll love it.

******
23 November 2008
9
Clarice Starling (Foster) interviews cannibal Dr Hannibal Lecter
(Hopkins) in an attempt to track down serial killer Buffalo Bill.No amount of praise that comes into this world will be enough to
recognize the brilliance of this picture. Intelligent, quick witted,
psychotic, different, shocking, tense and beautifully acted, the list
of positives simply continues.The most recognized feature of this film is more than likely Anthony
Hopkins' portrayal of the evil Hannibal Lecter. An extremely
intelligent man who simply knows everything, he IS the epitome of evil.His smart sophistication and intelligence is brought to the screen in a
vivid and shocking manor when dealing with FBI trainee Clarice
Starling. The pairing of Jodie Foster (The Accused) and Hopkins
(World's fastest Indian) is a thing of art. With Clarice's entry into
the crime world and Hannibal's experience, we see a wonderful
reflection of life. The past, the present and the future all
intellectually driven by Lecter. Ideologies of investigation,
nightmares and diagnosis's are all brought to the screen in a shocking
manor, brought to an astounding light and credit to the actors who both
received Oscars for their acts. Though Hannibal has hardly any screen
time he is the stand out figure of the picture and will leave a
devastating effect in the viewer's mind that will never be erased.Based on Thomas Harris' novel, this tells the story of Clarice, coming
into the FBI world, unaware of anything and still haunted by her past.Unlike many crime films out there, this 1991 Oscar winning picture is
beautiful in crafting character but also delivering a knockout issue
driven plot, combining the two most important elements of films. This
is achieved through some intelligent portrayals, but a grasping
realistic direction tactic by Jonathan Demme.The plot is consistent with the dramatic ideology of the serial killer
driving the film forward. There are a couple of scenes that are
questionable, and a second viewing is usually necessary to capture all
the necessary information.Having never read the book myself, I find this to be a shocking tale
that the book may either offer so much more, or put a dent on the
picture. Either way, the film is a necessity for any film fanatic.Smart and sophisticated, Silence of the Lambs is fast and flowing,
beautifully realistic with a great line of characters, and one of the
greatest on screen villains in history.

******
18 November 2008
9
The FBI thriller to end all FBI thrillers.We can probably thank "The Silence of the Lambs" for the plethora of
CSI shows bombarding our T.V. screens today, but don't hold that
against it. This is one of those films that I never tire of seeing, and
I can't come across it on cable without stopping whatever it is I'm
doing to watch it."Lambs" came out of nowhere in 1991 as the big film of the year, and
the fact that it won the top five Academy Awards has given it prestige.
But to look back, it's amazing that this film was taken seriously
enough to win big. It's brutal, violent and traffics in all manner of
psychopathic nastiness, from cannibalism to sexual deviation. Jonathan
Demme's direction is tight but by-the-book -- it's first and foremost a
plot driven movie. But the film's ace card is the performance by
Anthony Hopkins, who chose to play Hannibal Lecter as a suave and
polite Englishman rather than a raving lunatic. His scenes with Jodie
Foster, as FBI trainee Clarice Starling, are mesmerizing, and it was a
brilliant choice on the part of the screenwriter (and this probably
came from the book, though I haven't read it) to make the film, under
its grisly surface, essentially about a love story.Foster's performance doesn't hold up well all these years later. She's
mannered and unconvincing, especially later in the film as her
character becomes more frantic. But Hopkins' creation remains one of
the most memorable ever committed to the screen.Grade: A

******
14 November 2008
9
The Silence Of The Lambs is directed by Jonathan Demme, based on the
novel by Thomas Harris, has music by Howard Shore and stars Anthony
Hopkins, Jodie Foster, Ted Levine and Scott Glenn. The Silence Of The Lambs is the second of five films and a TV series to
deal with the cannibalistic killer Dr Hannibal Lecter(Anthony
Hopkins.)The first was Manhunter which starred Brian Cox as Dr Lecter.For many people Anthony will always be the better Lecter(no disrespect
to Brian Cox, but his Lecter was only seen on screen for about 10
minutes and was just not scary enough.)F.B.I cadet Agent Clarice Starling(Jodie Foster)is sent by her boss
Agent Jack Crawford(Scott Glenn)to talk to Hannibal Lecter in a maximum
security prison. Clarice is sent to get his help on the case of a
serial killer called Buffalo Bill(Ted Levine).As Clarice talks more
with the Dr he becomes intrigued by her, soon she finds she must tell
him personal things about her past for him to trade the profile he has
built up on Buffalo Bill.The pair develop a strange relationship and in the books Lecter falls
in love with her. In the films that never comes across as being the
case. Featuring outstanding performances and some very scary moments
this is a horror film that does not rely on gore and over the top
violence to be frightening.It leaves most of the details to the mind of
the audience and that makes it more scary than if we were shown the
horror. The entire cast are superb with Hopkins and Foster both winning Oscars
for their performances, the awards were completely deserved. Despite
Hopkins often getting most of the praise for his performance this is
Foster's film, she is brilliant as the tough, yet vulnerable Agent
Starling and makes Starling one of the best remembered heroines in film
history. Ted Levine is also brilliant as the chilling Buffalo Bill.

******
28 October 2008
10
Broodingly, intimately and truthfully shot, quietly edited, with a
gloomy orchestral score and a richly commanding cast everywhere from
Hopkins and Foster's obvious milestones to Scott Glenn and Ted Levine,
this artistically complex, penetratingly intimate movie is a
masterpiece in all departments. I do not categorize it as a horror
film. Maybe a suspense thriller, because whenever I watch it, I view it
as such, but the reason it is so compelling is because it is not
genre-specific. Yes, it is scary, it is suspenseful, especially in its
heart-exploding climax, and our fear of Dr. Hannibal Lecter is
established as soon as he appears for the first time, as FBI cadet
Clarice Starling reticently passes the maximum security cells of
clearly demented ward occupants, and director Jonathan Demme cuts to
her point of view as she arrives at Hannibal's cell at the end of the
dank corridor, and he is awaiting her already, standing with perfect
posture, a pleasant, polite look on his face. His speaking voice has
the care of a man having transcended the common cognizance that he can
hardly be concerned to speak to the slack acumen of the ordinary
person. The effect of this scene is so powerful that it underlies all
the rest of the movie, affording fear to scenes that do not even have
to do with him.There is so much to say about Hannibal Lecter, as a character, as a
villain, as a person. But rather than doing so, I shall simply say that
the reason Jonathan Demme's The Silence of the Lambs as a film works
incomparably better than Ridley Scott's Hannibal or Brett Ratner's Red
Dragon, in the sense of portraying Hannibal in the most powerful and
mystifying way, is because it tries to create sympathy for him through
his charm, his incredible intelligence, his creative cultivation and
his penetrating insight into the mind with all five senses, then turn
the monster loose. Accordingly, there are moments when Lecter commits
brutally violent acts, but Demme and the adapting screenwriter Ted
Tally wisely let a little go a long way, with the foreseeing intention
that the long-term impact is of his evil psychological strength.Most of the best stories never started from ideas but always from
character. I firmly believe that The Silence of the Lambs is an
offshoot straight from the creation of Hannibal Lecter. Even as rich
and sympathetic and real as Clarice Starling is, she is a projection of
what Dr. Lecter would find fascinating, how he would affect an eager
but inexperienced rookie's undertaking of a critical case.The Silence of the Lambs is not simply a horror film because of its
involvement of two psychopathic serial killers but because of its
organic use of the great common phobias and fears. Here is a story
involving not only cannibalism and skinning, but also kidnapping in the
least likely situation, one that will shatter one's trust and sense of
good samaritanship, being trapped in the bottom of a well, the details
and anatomy of decomposing corpses, large insects, being lost in the
dark, being tracked by someone you cannot see, not being able to get
people to believe you, people who know your deepest secrets,
beheadings, bizarre sexual perversions, and being a short woman in an
investigation otherwise led completely by tall men.Demme is aware of the pitfalls of shock value and exploitative horror
film techniques, but does not hesitate to take chances. His first scene
with Hopkins could have gone over the top, and in the hands of a lesser
actor almost certainly would have. But Hopkins is in the great British
tradition of actors who internalize instead of overacting.Jodie Foster is unavoidably upstaged by Hopkins's fertile and horrific
conception, but her stability, natural sensitivity and stealthy
backbone are at the core of the film's resolve. Real and
attention-grabbing facets lurk within her character as they do in any
one of us: She is one age group ahead from white trash, as Lecter
precisely conjectures, she tries to camouflage her southern accent, and
she has to rally all of her nerve and fabricated confidence to instruct
a room full of coarse small town lawmen out of an autopsy room. This
gripping and incessantly developed drama has a nuance of unsolicited
male attention toward her. Hardly ever in a movie have I been made more
alert to the understated sexual burden men instill in women with their
eyes. Ideally, if you're going to have a character appear in a story
long enough to glance at a woman, pass by at the wrong time, take a
picture or anything to such a minuscule effect, they had better be real
enough that you can guess what they ate that morning. The makers of The
Silence of the Lambs understand this.

******
26 October 2008
10
Review:The Silence of The Lambs is easily one of the greatest films of all
time. From it's eerie and atmospheric opening Lambs grabs you and
doesn't let go. It's plot is riveting, it's characters unique, it's
direction is remarkable and it's acting is top notch. Hopkins character
is by far one of the most intriguing and psychotic to have ever been
portrayed on film. From the demonic looks to the glaring and unblinking
eyes, Hopkins has crafted a menacing and deranged character that only
will stand as being one of the greatest roles. The first time we
encounter this psycho is in the dark bowels of the asylum, where
Hopkins conveys an aura of pure insanity and evil by doing nothing but
just standing in the middle of the cell.Lambs is an excellent and taught thriller that boasts great
performances as well as an A* worked direction from Demme who works
this first rate classic like a symphony orchestra. Demme creates visual
style and symbolic substance that take movies and especially thrillers
to a new level.Verdict:Scary as hell and thrilling in equal quantities. And a pure acting
sensation for Hopkins and Foster.

******
25 September 2008
10
First off, I will recommend this film right now to anyone who can take
in this truly horrifying story, as there is not one minute where even
we, the audience, feel safe. The Silence of the Lambs is right in my
top-10 list for the best films of the decade (1990-1999), and after
viewing it, it may be in yours too.The acting is brilliant from all involved. Jodie Foster's performance
is one to cheer for every step of the way, but the real star of the
show, even for how his character plays out in the "big picture", is
Anthony Hopkins. There's not one scene where we do not fear what this
psychopathic genius Hannibal Lecter knows, and every moment he appears
on screen your heart will sink -- even if his screen time is VERY
short. Ted Levine is very good as Buffalo Bill and sightly underrated
for his performance.Howard Shore's music is haunting, terrifying, and uncomfortable, making
it a score I'd recommend to anyone who listens to orchestral music.
From tone to realization, Shore's intense music sets the stage for what
we see, making it a great achievement -- probably the best of the
decade as well.The story is very graphic. The violence is pretty heavy, and the first
scene between Clarice and Hannibal are disturbing -- especially the
moment when she is about to leave; definitely not for young viewers.The story is very enthralling and extreme. The mystery and suspense
works every time, and Jonathan Demme and Ted Tally deserve every award
they get.Overall, I highly recommend this film to those who can watch such an
intense film with deeply disturbing subject matter. This is just one
horrifying and excellent masterpiece that you must see.

******
23 September 2008
10
This is my favourite film. Ever since i have seen it i have been in awe
of its brilliance. The story is based on a fantastic novel and the it
is adapted to screen perfectly. This film is better than any other i
have seen in my life, and I've seen a few films. Anthony Hopkins became
my favourite actor because of this film and I've seen many other of his
films which are great as well. His performance is second to none.
Lector has such a presence that we are scared even before we see him in
his cell. Anyone who calls this film rubbish obviously knows nothing
about good film. If you have not watched it already then i suggest you
do as you are missing out. I have not seen a better villain than
Hopkin's Lector, you wont either, even Han Gruber (Die Hard) or The
Joker (Bataman:The Dark Knight).

******
21 September 2008
10
Jonathan Demme's 1991 film is one of my all-time favorite movies, and
it's one of the reasons that drove me to study film-making. It's an
intense psychological thriller with a phenomenal cast and some of the
most memorable characters/scenes in cinema. Based on the novel by
Thomas Harris, the film follows Clarice Starling, an FBI trainee who
has been pulled on to assist in a case by the head of the FBI
Behavioral Sciences division. Starling must interview incarcerated
serial killer Hannibal Lecter in an attempt to help capture a new
killer who has risen up and killed three women for their skin. Of
course, this movie is legendary, so I'm sure everyone knows this much
already...Demme's film, while not the first to feature the character of Hannibal
Lecter, is what turned the psychopath into one of the greatest movie
villains ever created. Most of the credit for this can be attributed to
Anthony Hopkins portrayal of the evil genius. The character is
charismatic and frightening, all at the same time, so you can't help
but like him despite the terrible things he's done. Lecter is a film
icon due to Hopkins' performance. The best scenes in the film are any
that include conversations between Lecter and Starling (Jodie Foster).
They make every other scene in the movie (including the primary plot)
seem insignificant and I found myself waiting for the next interview
scene. Foster was great as the naive FBI agent-in-training who is
thrown into the fire for her first real assignment and Scott Glenn gave
a strong performance Jack Crawford, head of Behavioral Sciences. Aside
from Hopkins, I'd have to say the best performance came from Ted Levine
as Jame "Buffalo Bill" Gumb. Perhaps I am just easily entertained by
sociopaths but watching him as the severely disturbed Gumb still gives
me the creeps.I wouldn't say I was ever really scared by this movie, so I wouldn't
classify it as horror. It was more a sense of uneasiness from the
film's two resident psychos: Hopkins and Levine. It gives you a minor
glimpse of the mind of a serial killer and it does it effectively,
thanks to the writings of Thomas Harris and Ted Tally. Despite having
been released in 1991, the film is timeless and continues to stand
today as one of the best movies I've ever seen. Honestly, if you're
reading this and haven't seen this film, do yourself a favor and watch
it. You won't regret it.

******
31 August 2008
10
This movie had scared the bejebus out of my sister. But I'm mad that I
haven't seen this movie a lot sooner than last year when I was 17. I
wish I seen this movie when I was like 10, I just loved horror. But
then again, this movie isn't a horror movie, it's more of a
psychological thriller. This is hands down the most terrifying thriller
of all time, I wouldn't recommend than young teenage girls (if you're
brave enough) see this movie because it might scare you. But
nevertheless, this is a great movie.Swept all five major academy awards for best actor in a lead role, best
actress in a lead role, best picture, best screenplay, and best
directing. Jodie Foster performance in this movie is incredible,
especially near the ending (she's been doing it since she was a kid).
Anthony Hopkins performance is so good that is can scare you. Two of
the most horrifying villains are in this movie: Hannibal Lector and
Buffalo Bill.If you like a good thriller, this movie is for you. Even some of the
things the characters said in the movie really gave me nightmares. You
will be terrified of this movie, I can guarantee it!You must see this movie.

******
13 July 2008
10
Clarice Starling is a trainee FBI agent, and although we live in
liberated times she is clearly regarded as decoration by most of her
male compatriots, after all, she is a woman in a male dominated world.
That said we know she is something special when she is the only one
left in the elevator on the way to the top. She is asked to go on an
assignment by Jack Crawford, a senior figure at the Bureau to profile
serial killers, perhaps, to help profile a new killer, Buffalo Bill, a
man who skins his victims, different patterns each time and all dumped
in different places. The Killer she is given the job of profiling is
the one that will not co-operate, the infamous killer Hannibal Lector,
formerly a renowned psychiatrist before he went off the rails towards
the siding known as insanity.And so Clarice begins a series of interviews with Lector where they
both attempt a kind of intellectual and emotional sparring as they try
to find out more about each other. As they get to know each other, with
Clarice giving more in terms of info and Lector giving more in terms of
soul they become unwitting colleagues in the race to stop Bill adding
to his list of victims. This film is a modern classic in every sense of the word. The colour
seems to have been bled from every frame leading to a drab and desolate
world without hope or sympathy. The use of symbolism is some of the
best I've ever seen with the bug motif occurring throughout and not
just in terms of the killer's signature, be aware of how his eyes look
in the night vision goggles, we know that Bees can see in ultra violet
and the way in which his vision is turned into one colour is extremely
bug-like, however the big parallel with bugs is at the end of the film
(Spoiler alert) when we see the figure dying on the floor with the
night vision goggles on, with the wounds on both sides of his chest, he
dies like an insect, something that many people may not notice.The film is also clever in its usage of more familiar symbolism to make
us feel certain ways. As Bill's next victim is driving along we see her
singing to a song on the radio, not just singing the main words but
flitting between backing and the main lyrics, just the way we all do,
making us far more concerned than we would be if she was just driving
home, by showing her doing what we all do, she becomes us and we fear
far more for her future fate.However, this is not just a film about symbolism, this is a film about
the decisions that we make and the decisions that we are forced to
make. Clarice is sent on a path to the FBI after the death of her
father, he was her world and all she seeks is his approval and by
following in his footsteps it is the closest she can think to do that,
this is a decision made by circumstance that is unavoidable, and she
has no regrets over it. Hannibal by contrast goes fruit loop after
dealing with endless whingy whiny patients with no problems when what
he wants to do is deal with interesting problems. Somewhere along the
way his mind snaps and the discussions that he would have no doubt
enjoyed with Clarice are soured by the fact that there are bars between
them, this regret is clearly etched on his face when they discus serial
killers and Clarice says, so impassively, "No, you ate yours", she
knows what he is and he doesn't impress her like his mighty intellect
should, because he is a killer and to her that is all he is, and, as he
realises this and looks away it is this regret that is revealing.
Lector loves battling or discussing intellectual matters with equals,
and so few ever came his way, and the regret he feels over meeting
Clarice clearly too late is portrayed beautifully by Anthony Hopkins
who gives the performance of a lifetime in giving us this killer who
still contains within him a human soul.This is the glory of this performance, although people have pointed out
that his screen time is more warranting a supporting actor nod, there
was simply no finer male performance, supporting or otherwise, and
perhaps one of the greatest pieces of luck that the film enjoyed was
Gene Hackman turning the role down. Anthony Hopkins doesn't just
perform Lector, he inhabits him and we get treated to an amazing piece
of acting that shows us that Serial Killers, the worst kind of people
that there are, are still people, and that this is perhaps the saddest
thing about them.To add to this great performance Jodie Foster not only gave a good
performance but matched Hopkins perfectly, showing all of Clarice's
strength's and vulnerability with such stunning realism that we feel
almost every shiver that goes through her skin as she trawls society's
bottom step in order to stop a monster feasting endlessly on victims
that society does not care much about. Scott Glenn rounds off this
acting triumvirate with a measured controlled performance that exactly
matches his character.Jonathan Demme's direction is superb, the music compliments every scene
with an uneasy balance that never allows you to settle in your seat and
the script is first rate. After I thought about this film and
considered how good it was I tried to think of some reason to give it a
nine, and I couldn't. This film really is a ten and although the
subject matter is not everyone's cup of tea, it is worthwhile for those
who have a hard enough stomach.

******
18 June 2008
8
Agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) enters into a relationship with
Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), a brilliant but deranged
flesh-eating psychiatrist. He may be her only hope in catching Buffalo
Bill (Ted Levine), a new serial killer who strips women of their skin
for his own nefarious purposes. Can she trust him? "Silence of the
Lambs" won a few Academy Awards, and it's plain to see why. Everyone
involved does a wonderful job, and even after several viewings the
movie remains fresh and enjoyable. I still haven't figured out what
kind of accent Jodie Foster has, and I probably never will. Anthony
Hopkins is perfect as Lecter, and I think it goes without saying that
this will be the role he is remembered for. Maybe not his best role,
but certainly his most widely received.The film has a timeless quality to it. Of course, we can tell the year
the film was made from the clothing styles and production quality of
the film. But there's nothing glaringly time-specific about it (compare
it to "Manhunter" with the pastel jackets). Some things may seem silly
and unintentionally comedic (there are excessive amounts of close-ups
on Lecter that make me chuckle) but overall it's a good, smooth
showing.I'm not going to get into detail about the film, director Jonathan
Demme's vision or the changes from book to film (such as the number of
Lecter's fingers). The film has been combed through a hundred times by
critics and fans, and I'm merely adding an opinion that's been voiced
before. But I will say this: as of 2008, the film retains all the
qualities and positive aspects attributed to it when it first arrived
in theaters. One suspects it always will.

******
17 May 2007
9
This film is regarded as one of the best films of all time and
deservedly so. Jonathan Demme is at his absolute best here building
suspense and tension into a blend of physical and psychological terror
rarely matched in film.The reason this film works so well is because of its stars: Jodie
Foster and Anthony Hopkins. The chemical reaction that takes place
between these two on screen is so palpable and acidic you find yourself
hardly able to watch.Their scenes are what sets this film apart from any other horror ever
made. And yes it is a horror movie. The mind games never wain when they
are on screen. They must have had a great time working with each on
this film.This is a must see for horror film lovers, suspense film lovers, and
just plane film lovers. A great movie.

******
17 May 2007
10
Hannibal Lecter is a scary non-vegetarian in this meaty thriller.Seriously, this film is regarded as one of the best films of all time
and deservedly so. Jonathan Demme is at his absolute best here building
suspense and tension into a blend of physical and psychological terror
rarely matched in film.But, the reason this film works and kicks so much ass has everything to
do with its stars: Jodie Foster (Genius) and Sir Anthony Hopkins
(Knight). The chemical reaction that takes place between these two on
screen is so palpable and acidic you find yourself hardly able to
watch.Their dynamic is what sets this film apart from any other serial
killer/horror/suspense/thriller ever made. The verbal jousting never
wains when they are on screen. These are mind games unlike any other
portrayed in the movies before or since.This is a must see for horror film lovers, suspense film lovers, and
just plane film lovers. A great movie.

******
4 May 2007
10
It was the time of my life, watching this movie, Anthony Hopkins as Dr.
Hannibal Lector, yes this movie has to be my favorite thriller of all
time! Academy Award winner Anthony Hopkins definitely brings one of his
best acting performances ever to cinema, making this movie. You will
not be disappointed when you watch this movie, i guaranty it. How many
Oscars did it win, um let';s see, 4 Oscars! They are coming back, to
make Hannibal Rising, that movie looks pretty satisfying, but nobody
can top Anthony Hopkin's performance as Hannibal Lector...never, i bet
Gaspard Ulliel is a pretty good actor, too bad he'll never be as good
as Anthony, sorry...Gaspard.

******
7 April 2007
10
Congratulations are in order. Each of the films has lots to offer
(Manhunter the least), but Silence of --- offers the most. I've never
seen a better performance from Jodie Foster. Anthony Hopkins will
forever be remembered as Dr. Lector. Who else could play the role?
Johnny Depp, as fine an actor as he is?On to the most despicable characters; they are so easy to hate, more so
than Lector's murderous cadre of acolytes, who, after all, have an
excuse. In order of increasing odiousness: 1. Catherine, the rich,
loudmouthed senator's daughter. Whatta bitch! She would have done
better as a capacious frock. 2. Freddy Lounds, the flaming asshole
tabloid publisher. Whatta spectacular way to go! 3. Dr. Chilton, the
smarmy director of the mental hospital, who never tired of tormenting
his prisoner, Hannibal Lector. Did he go well with fava beans? We can
only hope so, for Lector's sake.Finally, is that Barney who gets off the plane in the ISLANDS, MON,
with Dr. Chilton? There was a remark made about security for the Big
Shots. If so, that was just desserts.One of the most sensuous scenes in any film I have seen is when the
blind woman, Reba, is taken by Dolarhyde to 'experience' the beautiful
tiger, under sedation. The way she listened, took in the scent and
touched the animal, finally burying her cheek in its fur. Now, THAT was
a scene! It beats the pants off Salome's dance, eh?

******
4 April 2007
9
A film that actually deserves all the acclaim and praise bestowed upon
it. Everything, from the story right down through to the music, is
outstanding, making for a chilling and memorable drama. Hopkins steals
the show, of course, and his Oscar is well-deserved despite it being
the shortest performance for a winning lead actor; Foster provides a
nice contrast to him, and is also deserving of the acclaim. The scenes
between Lecter and Clarice are so exceptionally done that it's nearly a
shame when the focus shifts from him to Buffalo Bill, but an underrated
performance by Ted Levine makes the climax just a thrilling. The scene
where Lecter escapes is one of my all-time favourite cinematic moments,
not just because of the gore, but because of the pure horror that is
developed without any supernatural elements.

******
5 March 2007
10
In The Republic, Plato puts the tale of the ring of Gyges in the mouth
of Glaucon, who uses it to make the point that no man is so virtuous
that he could resist the temptation of being able to steal at will by
the ring's power of invisibility. In contemporary terms, Glaucon argues
that morality is a social construction, whose source is the desire to
maintain one's reputation for virtue and honesty; when that sanction is
removed, moral character would evaporate.What is the screenwriter trying to tell the audience other than another
gruesome tale of human nature. The entertainment of the doctor, Hanibal
Lecture, must be as equal to the thrills of the audience. Just as the
good doctor hears the evils of man baptized by the oath of Hippocrates
he is obligated by the oath to remain secret. At least until that oath
can be legally dealt, and still due to personal intelligence the
details not recorded are his duty to disclose.Almost like a shield that mirrors his own reflection his conscience
maintains his own character, but it consumes him. This reminds me of
the scene from Superman II as well during the hour of judgment of the
State criminals. Where they become imprisoned in a mirror for their
crimes. Was it really three different criminals or just one with three
personalities of a mute, military general, and women.Just as the beginning of this analysis ancient myth of human nature
could play on many aspects. Perhaps the reason for the use of the
Deaths Head Moth being placed in the mouth. Or, based on history of
film this could be the screen-writers reference to Der Fanger, 1966. A
German movie that deals with a butterfly collector who develops a
super-ego of power that deteriorates into a psychosis of mania where he
begins to collect women.Myths such as the emperors new cloths may play a significant role.
Hence the use of women to make a new image that is respectable. The
women are used to conceal the hidden emotions of the dual character of
cross-gender nature. Thus the suspect makes a physical outer appearance
as apparent as his illness inflicts is physical character.Just as a garment is made from silk cloth at the expense of the moth
the image of mentally ill must be at equal risk concerning human
virtue. As the story is told and what is known about society and human
virtue without both the individual is naked to the morals and ethics of
the society. Thus as an analogous relationship just as the moth is
destroyed for the sake of the merchant because of the separation of
Buddist values and economic values the mentally ill individual destroys
women when he truly separates from the moral and ethical obligations of
society to promote his own individual image.Actor Anthony Hopkins plays a fantastic role as the doctor. His
practice at being cold and clever makes him seem the more distant. This
is the exact opposite in his role as Ted Brautigan in Hearts in
Atlantis. Anthony Hopkins recently became a US citizen from the United
Kingdom. His duty to the UK military and theatrical skills have
propelled him in his own career that is highly noted by his peers from
around the globe. Good job Anthony Hopkins.

******
28 February 2007
10
A very interesting storyline, a determined rookie agent and the most
chilling character ever depicted on film make The Silence of the Lambs
an all-time classic. Not many films have won the top 5 Oscars and this
certainly deserves to be one of them. The camera-work in this film is
brilliant, showing you the action through the eyes of Clarice Starling
with all other characters speaking into the camera, getting you
involved with the film, and you can almost feel the fear of Clarice's
assignment. Anthony Hopkins' performance as Hannibal Lector is
something else. There are very few evil characters that you find
yourself rooting for, and even despite knowing that he is a sicko mass
murderer, you want him to escape from the prison. He is one of the best
characters ever, certainly the creepiest! The Silence of the Lambs is
one of the most thrilling films of all time, and the twist at the very
end is the icing on the cake. 10 out of 10 - easy!

******
11 February 2007
9
In your opinions, list the best Hannibal movies of the series in
order...I haven't seen 'Hannibal Rising' yet or 'Manhunter', so I can't put the
films in a legitimate order myself, but I will say 'Silence of the
Lambs' is simply the best thus far (I'll be surprised if anyone thinks
other wise). Personally, I thought 'Hannibal' was a piece of crap
(maybe because I couldn't accept Julianne Moore as Clarice Starling,
however, I preferred Harvey Keitel as Jack Crawford in 'Red Dragon').So for me at this point, I'll say... 1.Silence of the Lambs 2.Red
Dragon 3.Hannibal 4.??? 5.???

******
10 February 2007
10
This is one of the movies that I had heard of but had never really
wanted to see, now with the upcoming release of Hannibal Rising...I had
figured that I would watch it. Let me say that it was just now that I
finished Silence of the Lambs, and I moved directly onto Hannibal, the
sequel. Can anyone tell me if Manhunter or something like that (an 80s
movie) is an installment to this series? It seems like it would be, but
I've stumbled upon many that have the same kind of title, or the same
characters that have absolutely nothing to do with the intended film
(i.e. Halloween II) Aside from my banter chat, I believe this movie was
excellent and I regret not wanting to watch it earlier. I think I will
add this movie to one of my Favorites, if not my number 1. I am pleased
that this movie has gotten such a high rating. Thank you for proving
faithful, IMDb.

******
15 December 2006
8
Not an easy film to watch, but gripping all the same. Anthony Hopkins
delivers one of the most complex and disturbed characters in the
history of cinema, while a young Jodie Foster shines as the ambitious
and smart Clarice Starling, on the trail of a deranged psychopath known
as Buffalo Bill. But in order to find this man, she is going to need
Hannibal Lecter's help...The horrifically disturbing manner of Buffalo Bill is powerfully
delivered by Ted Levine, and in no doubt set the standard for how other
thrillers are measured.The dreadful consequences of being a victim of a deranged psychopath is
displayed to graphic effect in this now legendary award-winning film as
we witness the horror and evil of this person's mind which in no doubt
will send shivers down the spine.I've awarded The Silence of the Lambs eight points, which may mean nine
to everyone else!

******
6 October 2006
10
I actually watched Hannibal before I watched the silence of the lambs
and I have to say it just doesn't compare. Silence of the lambs is
definitely one of the best thrillers of movie history. Anthony Hopkins
does a superb job playing Hannibal Lector and Jodi foster playing
Clarice Starling as well. What I enjoy most about this movie is that we
are actually dealing with 2 pshycotic killers but using the
intelligence of one to catch the other. As much as I would love to give
away parts I just can't. Buffalo Bill was simply a freak but I was
fascinated on how Lector was able to lead Clarice to him by the small
clues he gave her throughout the movie. If you have never seen the
silence of the lambs, I don't know here you have been but you better
get to your video store if you want to see a thriller that will have
you on the egde of your seat. Most definitely a 10 out of 10!!!!

******
16 September 2006
10
This has everything it can give. The cast of the movie are anything but
ordinary, and the plot is well made through and through. Jodie Foster
does a spectacular job playing the role of Clarice Starling, a tough
rookie FBI Agent. Anthony Hopkins is excellent as the clever, but
sinister mass-murderer Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter. She goes to
where Lecter(Hopkins) was being held. To me I get the chills being
around that guy. But as the old saying goes, "to get a killer, to find
a killer." That other killer is "Buffalo Bill"(Ted Levine), a Ed
Geine-like killer who kidnapping and killing young women. Unlike Geine,
he didn't eat his victims like Lecter. Trusting a killer like Lecter
can be bone-chilling, but as long as a trust issue isn't a problem,
they can work together. I like the scene where Lecter was in this round
cage, and when he called out Clarice to get her papers, he strokes her
hand with his finger. Some may call this scene nerve-racking, to me
it's a flirt. He trusts Clarice, and I bet she does the same too. Hmmm!
Then after that, he gets his dinner, he killed those two guards. He got
the liver of the tougher one. Must tastes like foie gras. (HEH HEH!)
And he wears the face of the other, another Ed Geine-like action.
There's plenty to see in that movie, the moths, the booby traps, and
the chilling climax this movie got. It didn't lack anything there! A
Neo-classic! 5 stars!

******
10 August 2006
8
The silence of the lambs is undoubtedly one of the finest movies of the
nineties.....with brilliant performances by both Foster & Hopkins.A young FBI agent(Foster) is assigned to take the help of a psychic
murderer & a very cunning Dr Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins)to catch hold of
a deadly serial killer named Buffalo Bill(also a wannabe
trans-sexual),who has been brutally murdering young girls........Although Hopkins has a short role,but the way he carries his role is
really commendable.....Foster is equally charming......and Ted Levine
also fits to his role perfectly.One of my favourite movies...but unfortunately i haven't seen
'Hannibal' & 'Red Dragon'.

******
2 August 2006
10
Silence of the Lambs is a true work of art. It stands as my favorite
film not only in the thriller/suspense genre, but of all films in
existence. The story is original and never goes stale, all of the
characters are interesting, the dialogue between the bright, young
Clarice Starling and the maniacal, manipulative Hannibal Lecter is
phenomenal. Hannibal Lecter is one of the most terrifying characters in
film due to his extreme intelligence and disturbing habits. The camera
work in this movie is also outstanding, especially toward the climax of
the film, when the florist is ringing the doorbell; that's all I will
say as to not give it away, but it throws you for a loop. Who can
forget the eery "Goodbye Horses" tune with the infamous dance? The
climax will have you on the edge of your seat, just waiting to jump.
The film is puzzling, intense, suspenseful, anything you could ask for
in a thriller. The film is mesmerizing and has yet to be beaten by any
other film as my top choice.

******
23 July 2006
9
This movie is simply excellent because it truly shows you the life and
methods of a serial killer. Not only that, the movie also demonstrates
how the FBI investigates, studies, and acts against these maniacs. If
that isn't enough, the movie also displays the basics of criminology. We have a complete serial killer movie with high budget and excellent
production values. This is by far, the best movie about any serial
killer. The main character should be Buffalo Bill because all of the
events have to do with him. The FBI is "hunting" him because he
kidnapped the daughter of a senator. The FBI agent in charge of the
case is investigating hints given by the sinister Dr. Lecter in order
to catch Buffalo Bill. And of course, Dr. Lecter's speeches always give
something away in order to capture the maniac. The events that lead to
the ending have important information; every scene is a step towards
the mystery behind Buffalo Bill. Agent Sarling is the person in charge
of the investigations. She's clever, brave, and beautiful. I won't get that much into the scenes of the movie because it would be
giving away important things to those who haven't seen it. I'll just
comment on how this movie displays the intense relationship between a
novice agent and a powerful-minded cannibal, who also is a
psychologist. The relationship between Dr. Lecter and Agent Starling is
the best feature of the movie; all the scenes involving both are great
in the acting and dialog factor. The acting couldn't be better. Mr.
Hopkins delivers his best performance to date. Dr. Lecter is the eyes
of Buffalo Bill; we get to understand and learn about him through
Lecter. Jodie Foster demonstrates that she's a brilliant actress and
person. How could she manage to perform this complex character? She's
just great. The direction is great. With the proper use of dark combined with
beautiful exteriors, "Silence Of The Lambs" is an unsetting movie with
excellent cinematography. This movie has some memorable scenes in movie
cinema and will always be the number one movie about a serial killer.
Watch this movie in order to witness one of the best movies of all
time, and expect excellent dialogs, acting, direction, and an
entertaining factor like in no other movie.

******
11 July 2006
9
The Silence of the Lambs picks up 5 years after the events of
Manhunter. A serial killer is kidnapping and murdering women, and
wearing their skin as clothing. When the governor's daughter is
kidnapped, an FBI trainee named Clarice Starling is sent to talk to the
cannibalistic Dr. Hannibal Lecter so he might shed some of his vast
knowledge on the case. This leads to a bizarre relationship where
Clarice opens up to Hannibal for information. This is a very good
psychological thriller that will live on through the years as a
timeless classic.The Silence of the Lambs is superior to it's predecessor because it
seems to be made on a larger budget, and it uses some big names. It
successfully translates the mood from Thomas Harris' novel to film, so
the movie comes off as dark and creepy. The characters are awesome. The
cat and mouse conversations between Hannibal and Clarice are immensely
interesting. She is shy, and Hannibal forces her to be bold. The serial
killer in this movie, Buffalo Bill, is based off of real life killer Ed
Gein, and he is extremely disturbing in this movie. Another good thing
is that this is a no holds barred movie. It doesn't pull any punches.
It shows what it wants, and it makes the movie more realistic.The acting is awesome. Anthony Hopkins does a vastly superior job in
the role of Hannibal Lecter than Brian Cox did in Manhunter. He made
the character his own, and that's why nobody mentions Brian Cox in the
role. Hopkins' portrayal is creepy and memorable. Jodie Foster does a
knock out job as Clarice Starling, the shy FBI agent forced to
interview Hannibal.Overall, this is an amazing movie, and it definitely deserved the Best
Picture Oscar. Anybody that loves a good psychological police drama
really needs to rent/buy this movie.9/10

******
1 July 2006
10
Silence of the Lambs has perhaps the best script translation onto
screen I have ever seen. Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins mix so
seamlessly in this psychological thriller that it pulls you in farther
than you expected a movie could do. It won numerous awards, and for
good reason, it simply put is in a league all its own. Hopkins
performance as the now infamous Dr. Hannibal Lectar is perfect. A
psychologist genius, who eats his patients is detained in the insane
ward for life due to his total threat to society. Meanwhile one of his
old patient's lovers (Buffalo Bill) has become a serial killer pursued
by Jodi Foster/the FBI recruit. Only Lectar knows the identity of the
killer and has the mental aptitude to elude the FBIs questions long
enough to enjoy the numerous conversations between him and Jodie
Fosters character Clairice. The true terror of Hannibals character,
genius and cunning , is contrasted by Buffalo Bill who skins his
(female) victims after holding them hostage for days. This film gives
you interesting glimpses into the FBI's pursuit of a serial killer,
putting you in the shoes of an investigator piecing together a puzzle
in order to save a young womans life. This film is purely
psychological, and extremely clever with subtleties that most people
who have seen the movie have never caught themselves. Examples are the
numerous hints Hannibal gives in very unconspicous ways about the
killer Buffalo Bill. The movie has a couple big twists that are hard to
see coming among all the SUPERB acting and dialogue. One of the more
memorable scenes are of the Buffalo Bill home and torture levels below
ground that seem to go ON AND ON forever. It almost looks like he'd
been living down there since the 60s or 70s and never moved junk
around..very cool prop work. I just can't say enough about Hopkins
performance...finally, a SMART villain. Amazingly, Silence of the Lambs
proved that the scariest villains aren't supernatural but could be the
people next door.

******
5 June 2006
10
The Silence of the Lambs is a cinematographic treasure hard to find in
today's society. The work put into this grand film is spectacular. The
chemistry between two Hllywood legends, Foster and Hopkins, is a rare
characteristic in modern day movie making. What's great about this
movie is it's honesty and incredible truth. What truly surprises me
thought is it's wisdom, such a smart way to put it together, such a
smart way to write it, to film it and to act it. A very rare
masterpiece in the the cinematographic business. Though it is gruesome
and direct, I can't help but to recommend this work of art to all those
in search for the perfect film. It has action, drama, it's thrilling
and just won't let you go, it will stay in your mind forever, as it
stayed in mine.

******
22 May 2006
9
There is very little one can say about this film that hasn't been said
many times already. It exploded on to the screen as a complete
surprise, and fully deserved the extraordinary level of the plaudits it
received.It is not realistic, but do all films really have to be? The central
character of Clarice Starling is easily recognisable as the modern
career woman struggling with something to prove, played to perfection
by Jodie Foster. But of course she is overshadowed by the entrancing
performance of Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter. At once terrifying,
fascinating and slightly surreal, he lurks in the mind long after the
movie ends, even though his time on-screen makes up a relatively small
proportion of the film, and it is worth seeing for him alone.It is hard to say that the film would have scored the success it did
without this mesmerising performance. But as so often with films which
are dominated by one single aspect, the fact that you are made to look
closely at it reveals a number of other qualities. Tension is admirably
maintained, despite the far-fetched plot, and at times it is genuinely
frightening, keeping you on the edge of your seat.It's a thrilling ride; one which requires you at times to suspend your
sense of reality and go where the director wants to take you. Hugely
enjoyable and largely ridiculous, there is no such person as Hannibel
Lecter. Or is there?

******
19 May 2006
9
yeah, so I saw this film in like a month ago. my movie obsessed friend
let my borrow it. this movie looks crappy, at first, but oh man. you
gotta see it, its so awesome. this movie is by far the best suspense
movie I have ever seen in my entire, short, meaningless life. this
movie build up suspense so well that I almost like, exploded near the
end of the film! it's like riding a roller-coaster, except no idiots
are like screaming next to you and you don't just want to punch that
guy in the face. anyways, Anthony Hopkins, your the best actor I know,
well I don't know that many actors... in fact i can't really say i know
you... but anyways your awesome actor, you get your job done well, and
hope you make more Hannibal Lector movies and like eat 50 more people.
anyways if you have not seen this film, every hour you waste not
watching it..God kills One kitty. so see it, and believe.

******
18 May 2006
10
This movie is something which I decided I would never watch again after
I did first, but I did it many time afterwords - mainly two reasons - a
blood-freezing story wrapped in a most delicate manner each fans of
thriller adore, and outstanding play by Jodie Foster (which surely was
embedding every woman we loved in a moment of her confrontation with
evil) and Anthony Hopkins, which was impossible magnetic and very
assuring. Thanks for this horror (to my regret continuation has not
been equally powerful art, though probably exceeded the level of
horror). I would rank this movie inside top 20. However, there are some
elements which could have been better.

******
9 May 2006
10
This film was absolutely brilliant, the atmosphere it gives out to
people was great!! It kept you in suspense and thrills all throughout
the film. Jodie Foster did the character of Clarice Starling justice it
was refreshing to see a female play such a hard but a chilling part and
she definitely done well. Well what can i say about Anthony Hopkins he
just was superb he played the part so well in the sense of keeping you
intrigued of what he was going to ask or say to Clarice next. Also you
could see that Hannibal Lecter loved Clarice in his own way. This film
will go down in history as a classic and it will never get old or grow
out of date, in my eyes it will always be remembered as absolute 10 out
of 10 film.

******
9 May 2006
10
Wow. Just wow. The most deeply frightening movie I have ever seen. The
plot revolves around Clarice Starling, an FBI trainee, who, to track
down serial killer "Buffalo Bill" (who kidnaps and skins women) must
talk to another captured killer and psychopath, Hannibal "the Cannibal"
Lecter. Her relationship with Hannibal evolves into something slightly
sado-masochistic, and becomes a twisted version of the father-daughter
dynamic - Clarice has issues with her father, and with guilt. Deep
consideration of what constitutes "higher" and "lower" forms of being
in a human, what exactly is psychopathic and what exactly is evil, and
all forms of destructive being are taken into account, symbolized by
the death's-head moth. The character Hannibal is extremely intriguing
and multi-dimensional, especially compared with Buffalo Bill...while
the latter knows that what he's doing can get him in trouble, he still
doesn't perceive himself as psychopathic, but Hannibal does. He
continues to do what he's doing when possible, to acknowledge it, to
even use it to his advantage with the weapon of fear, and all the while
functioning on a higher, very intellectual and thoughtful level. His
morbid curiosity in Clarice's past runs parallel to the desire to
consume another human being. By the way, did you know that there is a
species of moth that lives on nothing but tears?

******
8 May 2006
10
Sir Anthony has been my favorite actor since I was a very small child.
Everything he stars in is a perfect 10; he is a perfect 10; and he
outdid himself with the stunning performance of Dr. Hannibal Lecter!
Magnificent! Even as a small child I was aware that this man is an
actor of high caliber and I have seen everything he has ever been in
and I never tire of watching his films over and over again. I find his
skills phenomenal and I am hoping that he will make many more films!
His gifts to the world through his talent is beyond compare and I hope
he lives forever! Hannibal Lecter is a very complex character and only
Sir Anthony Hopkins could have done such astronomical wonders
portraying him. God bless you Anthony! Your number one fan!

******
4 May 2006
8
This is another film in which so many aspects of it have been written,
critiqued, and analyzed that I seriously wonder why I am even bother
writing a review of it. Based on the best-selling novel by Thomas
Harris, LAMBS is film that manages to successfully play to both
cerebral and visceral senses without slighting one for the other. In
other words, those looking for an intelligent psychological thriller
will be rewarded with an articulate script and strong performances,
while slasher fans will reveal in such genre staples as a transvestite
killer who skins bodies. Jonathan Demme's taunt direction ties all the
elements together flawlessly, and delivers outstanding performances
from his stars.Jodie Foster brings her innate intelligence and charming naiveté to her
role of FBI agent Clarice Starling, and she should receive major kudos
for portraying her character's strength as stemming from her brain
rather than any pumped-up Sigourney Weaver-esquire physical prowess.
Anthony Hopkins also delivers a tremendous performance that and belies
his relatively brief screen time with immense effectiveness. He is so
menacing that it feels like he's everywhere, even though he is only
on-screen for roughly one-fourth of the picture. Scott Glenn and Kasi
Lemmons are fine, but underused - this is the Foster and Hopkins show
all the way! The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences were
certainly fans of the film, as SILENCE OF THE LAMBS swept the Academy
Awards, deservedly winning Oscars in all five major categories. This
was only the third film in history to do so.A perfect motion picture.

******
3 May 2006
9
3 feelings mingling, the indulgence in perversion in Buffalo Bill, the
sense of precision in FBI, the madness of genius in Lector. These three
feelings mingle like a recipe to form something all its own, a feeling
greater than the sum of its parts, just as a clock or an automobile is
something on its own and bigger than the brute sum of all its parts.
The scene in which the movie tricks you into thinking Jodie Foster,
also known as Clarice Starling, is in one house or approaching one
house (I can't remember) when she's really in another is well done and
has tricked me more than once, which means even once I had already seen
the movie it had the ability to draw me in so that I forgot to remember
that the movie was going to try and trick me. Also, though stating the
obvious is often tedious, this is one case that warrants repetition

******
30 April 2006
10
Silence of the Lambs is one of those few flicks that, like wine, seems
to get better and better with age. I fist saw this film my 7th grade
year of school and I fell in love with the characters. Dr. Hannibal Lector(Anthony Hopkins in well deserved Acadamy Award
winning role) is the evil, yet somehow attractive, cannibal. Clarice
Starling(Jodie Foster, equally as stunning as her counterpart) is the
innocent young FBI trainee who has to somehow get information out of
Lector to save a young woman from the grips of the antagonist of this
film, the incredibly creepy Buffalo Bill. I won't give away anymore of
the plot but it's a thrilling and riveting ride the whole way.
Everything in this movie seems to be perfect. The lighting, editing,
all the cast: all perfect. The score to this film was terrific, and
added such tension to the scenes. Definitely a 10/10 stars movie.

******
5 April 2006
9
Though there are few films so outwardly violent, the real gold in this
film comes from the interaction between Anthony Hopkins and Jodie
Foster. He prowls like a lion, back and forth in his glass cage,
muzzled, dangerous. Foster reacts to him as you would someone who could
kill you if you looked away for a second. Parry and thrust. As the film
develops, a charming kind of standoff occurs. The FBI agent begins to
see some humanity in this monster. She needs him, but she needs to
trust him first. There are the scenes with the mask and the biting off
of noses and other violence, but these show that he is in many ways a
cunning beast. He is also a genius. As the profiling goes on, more and
more layers of the mystery are cleared and the quarry knows the quarry.
Hannibal Lecter is a celebrity brutalizer, and, of course, a cannibal.
Hopkins knows few peers in contemporary cinema. His films are almost
always worth the time. I doubt if he has ever created anyone like this
before.

******
2 April 2006
10
I saw this for the first time when I was like 13,and it just totally
floored me.Its one of the ones that has you engrossed in its
showing,and thinking about it for days afterword.Sir Anthony Hopkins
has always been one of my favorite actors of all time.For a while after
I saw him as Dr. Lechter in this,I thought there was no way he could
act in any other way in real life.Jodie Foster is awesome as Clarice;
also acting convincingly as the FBI agent closest to Lechter.The scene
that got me was when Dr. Lechter kills the two guards so savagely,all
the whilst that haunting piano score is playing.When he finishes,he
simply meditates on his record by looking upwards from the inside of
his cage.It was so wild to have that complete contrast of
character.There is many other scenes in this that didn't require
dialog,just moods created by suggestion and setting,and background
creativity.Elements that are cgi free.All the better are the
films,directors,writers,and actors that can achieve tension and
suspense on this level without computers.One of my favorites,and still
the best in the trilogy.10 outta 10!!!!!!!!!

******
29 March 2006
10
The silence of the lambs is one of the creepiest ever made. However, I
say that in a good way. It is the type of scare that doesn't pop out of
the corner, but instead it get's into your head and plays around with
you. That is the type of scare that i want to see in a movie. Buffalo
Bill is probably one of the most messed up movie characters ever made.
It rubs the lotion on it's skin or else it gets the hose again, is the
line that I say to my friends and they get creeped out (he also does a
"dance" in front of his camera). Hannible Lector, played by Anthony
Hopkins, is the greatest villain ever in cinema history (it's true
because the American Film Istatute named Hannibal the number 1 villain
of all time). Why was he named that title why?. Well you are going to
have to watch the film and find out for yourself.

******
7 March 2006
10
The Silence of the Lambs is about a young FBI agent named Clarice
Starling, who is assigned to save a missing woman kidnapped by
psychopathic killer with the help of another killer. The Silence of the
Lambs is one of the best films of the 90's and the best of 1991 by far.
The acting is the main reason why this film should be looked at. Jodie
Foster, Ted Levine, and especially, Anthony Hopkins have excellent
performances and they make this Oscar winner, a great one to watch. The
screenplay written by Ted Tally is excellent and the rich dialogue,
gave Anthony Hopkins's 19 minute screen time an Oscar, mainly because
of his greatly used dialogue. The directing, cinematography, and
soundtrack also made this an enjoyable and fantastic film to watch. I
highly recommend it!Quote of the movie: "A census taker once tried to test me. I ate his
liver with some fava beans and a nice chianti."Hedeen's Outlook: 9.5/10 **** A

******
23 February 2006
10
"The Scilence of The Lambs" is possibly the most unexplainable film
ever to be viewed in cinema. The film depicts a young, vulnerable FBI
cadet (Jodie Foster) who is sent to evaluate Dr. Hannibal Lektor
(Anthony Hopkins), who might have a clue leading towards "Buffulo
Bill", a killer who skins his victims in order to sew their skin. Jodie
Foster gives an excellent performance and this is definitely her
signature film. Anthony Hopkins rules the film and will scare you into
fits! Some aspects of this film are very disturbing but the acting is
great. Many scenes between Foster and Hopkins are outstanding. Not only
is this a great exhibition for acting but it is also very entertaining.
Thrilling in every aspect, this movie is so real, I guarantee you will
be sleeping with a night light for the next few months.

******
13 February 2006
10
I've seen this film countless times, and it is still riveting each
time. There are times that you feel nothing but the deepest sympathy
for the protagonist, and other moments when you want nothing more than
to see what just might happen to her.Jodie Foster is a trainee at the headquarters in Washington D.C. for
the F.B.I. Clarice Starling (Foster), has been asked to question Dr.
Hannibal Lector, a prisoner at an insane isilum for help on a murder
case the F.B.I. has been investigating. Hannibal (Hopkins), agrees to
help her solve the case, if in return she tell him personal information
about herself. The murder that they are investigating is a serial
killer who has been kidnapping heavier set woman, in order to skin
them. Throughout the course of the film, you will go inside the mind of
a psychopath, a serial killer and a woman trying to save her mind from
all the chaos that is tangeled in between the story.I will never get tired of this movie, and it was one of the few out
there that not only deserved each and every Oscar that it received, but
still a movie that can creep you out even after seeing it a hundred
times. It's a classic and will remain that way for a long time to come.

******
2 February 2006
10
I've seen a lot of horror movies, but the thing I've noticed is that
when you watch a horror movie after a few times, it's not that scary
anymore. I've probably watched Silence of The Lambs over 20 times, and
every time I watch it, I "jump", get startled. Anthony Hopkins is a
great actor, and I was really happy to see him get Best Actor for this
movie, he's brilliant and very freakish-like. Jodie Foster, also a huge
congrats on the Best Actor win at the Oscars, brilliant job by her.Here's the story there's a maniac out there by the name of "Buffalo
Bill" and the FBI sends trainee Clarice Starling (Foster) to interview
a psychiatrist named Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lector (Hopkins).
Lector agrees to give Clarice hints about how the Feds will catch
"Bill" if she tells him stories about her own troubled past.It's an amazing film, the thing that makes this movie different from a
lot of other horror films is....this movie barely has any blood or
gore. I gave this movie a 10 out of 10 because the acting is brilliant,
the characters memorable and the story unforgettable. Wonderful movie
recommended to anybody that loves watching horror movies!

******
30 January 2006
10
The Silence of the Lambs, directed by Jonathon Demme, is one of my all
time favourite films. It is also one of the only films that managed to
scare me. Anthony Hopkins portrays Hannibal Lector with an unsavoury
relish while Jodie Foster gives the performance of her career (which is
saying a lot!). Ted Levine also gives a very weird, but excellent
performance as Buffalo Bill.Buffalo Bill, a woman killing transvestite, is kidnapping, killing and
skinning young women. Agent Starling is assigned to gather information
from Dr. Hannibal Lector who might provide insight into the mind of a
psychopath. But the only way he will give her any information is for
her to feed him details of her personal life.This movie succeeds in all it sets out to do. Some scenes are very
chilling and disturbing (especially the ending), which helps make a
very uncomfortable atmosphere. The scenes with Hannibal and Clarice are
very tense. The acting in this is flawless, with Hopkins and Foster
both winning Oscars. The directing and screenplay also won an Oscar,
with it also nabbing Best Picture.5/5.

******
27 January 2006
9
There should be no questioning why Sir Anthony Hopkins & Jodie Foster
won Oscars for their roles in Silence of the Lambs. Hopkins as Hannibal
"The Cannibal" Lecter is terrifyingly superb portraying the fiendish &
super-intellectual imprisoned psychiatrist. Hopkins speaks eerily,
never blinks, & commands fear from all those near him. Foster as FBI
trainee & former farm orphan Clarice Starling gives a very convincing
naive, wide-eyed, & reluctantly courageous young woman faced with
finding a sadistic "Buffalo Bill" serial killer & getting to know the
infamous Dr. Lecter. Both actors make you believe in their characters &
leave you further engrossed in the movie.SOTL is the story of a manhunt for a serial killer dubbed "Buffalo
Bill" because he skins his "humps" or victims. FBI trainee Starling is
summoned by Behavioral Science Dept. guru agent Jack Crawford to make a
visit to Baltimore Psych. Hospital & talk to its most famous patient,
Dr. Hanibal Lecter. Starling is briefed on the physical procedures used
with Lecter by conceited & aloof hospital director Dr. Frederick
Chilton, who Lecter despises. After a brief encounter with Lecter,
Starling uses the doctor's clues to find a patient of his, also a
victim of the serial killer. The decapitated head is that of Benjamin
Raspell, who Lecter knows intimately. Lecter gives Starling clues to
catching the killer as long as she provides him with very personal
information about herself. Starling is warned about Lecter's devious
ways but decides to cooperate with him to get more clues. After more
victims & a U.S. senator's daughter kidnapped by Buffalo Bill, Starling
is on a race against time to save her from certain doom. Starling goes
to W. Virginia with Crawford to examine the body of one of Bill's
latest victims. Starling discovers a object forced into the girl's
throat which happens to be a moth, scientifically known as the Death's
Head Moth. After Starling & two entomologists index and identify the
pupa, she discovers the moth is a grisly calling card. Starling also
finds the same moth pupa in the head of Benjamin Raspell, a former
patient of Lecter & lover of Buffalo Bill. With Crawford leading the
way & Lecter agreeing to guide her for favors, Starling follows the
trail to Memphis, TN., where she meets the Cannibal on last time to
pick his remarkable brain for clues. Lecter makes a deal with Memphis
authorities & Senator Ruth Martin to assist in identifying Buffalo Bill
in exchange for access to books, etc. & an annual trip to Plum Island
for a short retreat under S.W.A.T. team surveillance. Starling speaks
with Lecter shortly as she is escorted to a plane back home by Chilton
& Memphis police. Lecter makes his move by ordering a 2nd meal
consisting of extra rare lamb chops in Starling's honor. Lecter
upchucks a small metal object behind a screen in order to free himself
of handcuffs used by police to enter his make-shift cell. Of course,
Lecter escapes confinement by trickery, kills the policemen guarding
him, & makes his way out of trouble posing as a wounded cop.Starling stumbles upon a surprised Bill at his home who must either run
from or kill the young trainee. Starling prevails by killing Bill,
saving the Governor's daughter, & graduates from Quantico at the
delight of Agent Crawford. Lecter, now on the loose & following his
nemesis Dr. Chilton, licks his chops at the notion of "having an old
friend for dinner". Lecter slyly walks the streets abroad to surprise
Chilton with his usual "calm sociopathic demeanor."SOTL will scare you, surprise you, & make you remember Hannibal Lecter
for days to come. If you like a thriller with "bite", this film will
give you your fill in spades. Superb nail biter that will have you on
the edge of your seat from start to finish. A must see!!!

******
24 January 2006
10
"The Silence of the Lambs" is truly a masterpiece. It's a thriller that
requires brains to figure out the twists and turns. It's not a mindless
horror movie either; the horror elements are very psychological and
tend to be disturbing. Furthermore, the film is almost exactly like the
novel of the same name.I really love the characters in the movie because they stayed true to
the characters in the book. Jodie Foster played the role of FBI rookie
Clarice Starling in a very realistic setting, and Anthony Hopkins
played his role as the cannibalistic Hannibal Lecter superbly. Both
characters were very convincing, thanks to the powerful performances
done by Foster & Hopkins.The cinematography is outstanding. Everything about the background
imagery mentioned in the book sprang to life in this film. Some
locations look very beautiful, while others are downright creepy.The theme music throughout the movie is good and scary, enough to make
your nerves tingle. There are also little scenes where familiar popular
songs are featured.To conclude, this is a very rich film and sticks to the book very well.
It is just as enjoyable as the novel.I give this film a 10/10.

******
1 January 2006
8
I do not believe there are movies which are perfect, but some are
close. 'The Silence of the Lambs' is damn close.I like every second of this movie and that never happens to me when I
watch movies. There are always scenes which could have been better or
just thrown away. This is where 'The Silence of the Lambs' is
different, here you can definitely talk about quality and not quantity.The main reasons, in my opinion, for the success of this movie are; the
excellent light- and sound effects, the psychological manuscript and
the professional actors such as Jodie Foster (Clarice Starling) and
Anthony Hopkins (Hannibal Lecter).'The Silence of Lambs' did not, in any way, scare me physically but
psychologically and that's why I believe this one of the best.

******
17 December 2005
10
During the scene in which Buffalo Bill is standing in front of a tall
mirror and talking to himself there is a song playing in the
background. What song is it? Someone please help. I remember that in
this scene he is dressed all creepy in a lot of makeup. He is standing
shirtless in front of a mirror and his nipples are pierced. He is
talking to himself and saying things like "I'd f*ck me, I'd f*ck me" in
that creepy voice of his. Like I said, there is a song playing in the
background during this scene that I might used for a mixed cd. If
anyone knows the title and/or artist name I would appreciate knowing.
Thanks.

******
2 April 2005
9
I have always wanted to see this movie. I mean, I was always told that
it would creep me out, and it was exciting and beautiful (okay, that's
just going a little overboard)and it would scare the living crap out of
me, but it was on TV, so I watched it. I taped it, and watch it every
chance I get.I did not get the scares that you would normally get from a thriller,
but from the movie, I got the emotion of each character, and the
suspense that made it simply irresistible.The plot for this movie is outrageously original. You don't just get
one serial killer, you get two for the price of one. Dr. Hannibal
Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) is so spine-tingling and ominous, that it is
hard to imagine how he could of been a psychiatrist. Clarice Sterling
(Jodie Foster)is the perfect choice for THomas Harris, the man who
wrote the novel, to have chosen for a mission such as the one she is
facing in the movie.Buffalo Bill (ted Levine) is disturbing as well. He has contributed one
of the most famous lines from a thriller into pop culture: "it rubs the
lotion on its skin, unless it gets the hose again" The acting is so
realistic, that you can hardly believe that this is not really
happening, but it is actually playing out in front of your eyes, almost
as if its true. The suspense is almost hard to bear. You can't wait to
see what happens next. I know that when I saw it, I was called away,
and I practically hung on to the television to see what would happen.YOu wouldn't want to let go either. I gave it a 9 out of 10

******
7 March 2005
9
Silence of the Lambs, a masterpiece in cinematic history. I did not see
this movie until last year because i would always go to rent it but it
would not be in, I almost bought it(which i wish i did then) because it
was only $10.00(CDN). I am glad that it was in when i did rent it
because i was really starting to get mad. I would not say that this was
the best of the trilogy,I would have to say that Red Dragon is the
best, most people do not agree with me but that is their opinion.
Hanibal focuses way to much on trying to make you vomit so it is pretty
bad.Wonderfuly acted and directed, Demme created something so great and
Hopkins and Foster were excellent. This may have been disgusting at
some parts but at least it didn't focus on only gore(like Hanibal),
this movie had a great climax and an amazing way to build us up to it,a
must see thriller.10/10

******
15 February 2005
9
This is a great film that has a lot of hidden meaning. Especially that
for women's rights. In the way that Clarice Starling is treated
unfairly. This is really a film about overcoming adversity. Their is
plenty of scenes which detail this perfectly. One is when she is
running with her friend at the FBI compound when a group of males go
running by and give them looks of "What the hell are they doing here."
The way Hannibal Lector will only talk to Clarice a woman mainly I feel
because it is a different approach the FBI used. This main fact is
covered up by the fact that Lector likes her or has a crush on her.
Another is when she is doing training at the FBI compound when they run
into the place to secure it Clarice messes up and is told that she is
dead and he looks at the guy and says you did great, but to Clarice he
says you messed up. The scene of the film which details my point is the
scene in which they are at the funeral home in which all the police are
meeting and Scott Glenn's character tells the other police officer to
come with him into the other room to talk details, this way Clarice
can't hear them and then Clarice looks around to see herself surrounded
by men. All in which are giving looks of "What the hell is she doing
here." If you pay attention closely this is repetitive throughout the
film. One scene in which Clarice overcomes her "disadvantage" which
don't get me wrong is not one but detailed in the film this way is when
doing an autopsy of the body, Clarice yells at everyone to leave. They
listen to her and leave. She actually cracks a smirk in this scene, to
almost say to herself "I did it." Of course we all know the ending of
the film, where the women was right and all the men at the other place
were wrong. She overcame her adversity and succeeded over the men and
is also shown at the award ceremony at the end where award ceremony
says her name first as opposed to the male name next. Scott Glenn's
character is a closet sexist. This is a great film once again and
deserves all its credit but watch close for these details throughout
the whole film. 9/10

******
22 January 2005
10
Silence of the lambs is honestly the best movie I've ever seen... I saw
it for the first time when I was at the age of 14, I watched it with my
mother an I remember, that I was afraid of it after watching... Until
now, I saw it for the fifth time and now I get less afraid than
fascinated by this movie... Hopkins acts in such a great way, that you
feel disgust at Hannibal Lecter on the one hand and an overwhelming
fascination on the other hand... In this movie you can find a great
tension, cruel stories but also there is this relation between Lecter
an Clarice... Lecter is Clarice's enemy and a kind of "friend" or
"admirer" of her at the same time... Silence of the lambs is really a
movie you HAVE to see !

******
16 December 2004
10
The Silence of the Lambs is one of the greatest horror movies I have
ever seen. I absolutely loved it, even when I first saw it at age ten I
loved it. Anthony Hopkins is so incredibly intriguing, and without him,
Hannibal Lecter wouldn't be anywhere as capturing as I find him to be
in the Hannibal Lecter trilogy. Hannibal and Red Dragon are also great.
Manhunter I didn't like nearly as much as any of the others because of
the not having Anthony Hopkins as Dr. Lecter. Hannibal is my favourite
out of any Hannibal Lecter movie or book because it shows him free.
That is my main reason. You get to see what the doctor is like without
bars in front of him. I recommend The Silence of the Lambs as well as
any other Hannibal Lecter movie to anyone that enjoys horror movies,
but then again I have been told over and over that I have an obsession
with the Hannibal Lecter movies and books. As long as your stomach can
handle the occasion blood and gore that is included in the movies.

******
13 November 2004
10
Once in a while a movie comes along that just blows you away, and this
is one of them. The performances - ALL of them - are downright
brilliant, from the unsure, yet aggressive Clarice Starling, her
controlled superior Agent, the insane Buffalo Bill (by the way one of
the more haunting movie villains...he'll come to you in your dreams ;)
and, of course, Hannibal Lecter. What can I say about Hannibal - he is
the reason why you watch the movie another time. I said Buffalo Bill is
haunting. Well, if that is true, Lecter is the stuff that nightmares
are made of, and yet, in a strange way, you want to have dinner with
him (preferably one that you cooked yourself). A fascinating character
that you wish to see more of, and actually have the feeling to see more
than you actually do - He has a total on-screen time of about 15
minutes. Fun Fact, I believe that's the shortest on-screen time that
ever brought an actor an Academy Award. To sum up the rest, the storyline is compelling, has enough creepy
moments to be classified as a horror thriller, and was followed by a
bunch of movies that desperately want to be "the silence of the lambs",
but are not. In my opinion, and I only include this because another
reviewer stated the opposite, it is by far superior to "Se7en". If you
haven't seen this movie, it's about time. If you have, there is no need
for you to read this review.

******
17 August 2004
8

I think it's gotten to the point where most people don't really care about
the Academy Awards anymore, because they're not for individual achievements,
but for appreciating an actor or a film because it cost a lot of money. But
back before those days, when the Oscars meant something, it was a huge honor
to win the five major Academy Awards-picture, actor, actress, director, and
screenplay. The Silence of the Lambs is the third, and most recent, one to
do that. Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins won acting awards, Jonathan Demme
won the directing award, and Ted Tally won for best adapted screenplay. Was
it deserving for all of those awards? For the most part, more or
less.Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins), a serial killer/cannibal who has the identity and
the whereabouts of notorious serial killer Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine), is
being interviewed by rookie FBI agent Clarice Starling (Foster) for
information on Bill. But Lecter's more cunning and demented than first
glance, and has fun playing with the mind of Starling as she's interviewing
him.Since I don't really know what to say about this movie, I'll go my fail-safe
way and go over each award it won and why it should have won for that
reason. The screenplay, based off of the book by Thomas Harris, has a slow
build-up (one that originally turned me off), but as soon as Lecter is
introduced, it's paid off. The script takes us inside of the head of Lecter,
making him one of the most interesting celluloid characters of the 1990s.
The screenplay also doesn't really waste that much time with unimportant
characters, although a little more on Jack Crawford would have been nice.
But the screenplay is tight and holds together well, throughout the
hit-or-miss directing career of Demme.Demme won an Oscar for best directing. I have mixed feelings about this one.
On one hand, many scenes in Lambs aren't boring, but not really that
exciting or involving. He does have some good style (I love that
night-vision scene), and does build up some good suspense as the movie comes
to a close. The suspense is laid on thick at the end, and I suppose it makes
up for the still entertaining but not thrilling rest of the movie. Demme
does set up some mystery, too, as we follow Clarice's adventures. There are
also some very disturbing scenes ("It rubs the lotion on the skin or else it
gets the hose again!"), which fit in with the tone of most of the movie.
Disturbing, yes, but actually impacting? Not really.Both Foster and Hopkins won acting Oscars for leading roles. Foster's
character, as I said before, began as being annoying to me, but soon became
a person I could tolerate. But was she deserving of an Oscar? A nomination
is even a stretch, mainly because of that awful accent of hers. Hopkins was
great, but with total screentime being around 16 minutes, he was more of a
supporting actor (although, I guess the awards were crooked then. They
wanted to give an award to both Jack Palance for City Slickers and Hopkins,
but they were both supporting roles). I think we got the gist of Hannibal in
those 16 minutes, and Hopkins put in a memorable performance in that
time.Lastly, Lambs won best picture. Is it the best picture of 1991? I'm not
sure, I haven't seen every film from 1991. But it's a damn good
one.My rating: 8/10Rated R for language, violence, and disturbing themes.

******
20 June 2004
10

since i first saw "The Silence of the Lambs" when i was 12 years old, i
have been terrified. This first time i laid eyes on Hannibal Lector
questioning Clarice Starling about her unfortunate past, i knew i was
hooked. The pure evil he held in his eyes has captivated me since. Jody
Foster should now be considered one of he greatest female movie
detectives of all time. She provided an excellent view into the life of
a struggling student with real skills that was able to overcome her
previous experiences. I now consider "The Silence of the Lambs", not
only my favorite horror/suspense film of all time, but just my flat-out
favorite. Anthony Hopkin's portrayal of Dr. Lector deserves every
snippit of praise it has received, and could probably deserve much
more. I wish the other "Lector" films could hold up to this one.
EVERYONE SHOULD SEE THIS FILM!


******
4 June 2004
10

**Deemed spoilers**No matter how many times I watch this film, I always get the deep sense
of brilliance taken from the first time I watched it. This is certainly one of the better films of our generation - In light
of the a-typical "horror" movies of today, Silence of the Lambs is in a
considerable class of its own. Although gruesome in parts, it perfectly
balances the sense of fear and psychological reliance's the different
characters have upon each other. The play between Lecter and Starling (Hopkins and Foster) is a duo that
rarely is seen on screen, and was utterly plausible. Starling walks
into Baltimore as a trainee FBI agent (and as others have commented
before me, this perhaps is the only bone of contention, the reality or
lack of henceforth of a training agent being assigned to the case) and
you feel she leaves Lecter's cell a completely different person.
Relenting all the pressure people have hyped around Hannibal "Cannibal"
Lecter she reaches him with no airs and graces and willingly accepts
the feat. The relationship develops into something on a level of trust,
Clarice recognising Lecters needs and desires, and when he escapes
towards the end of the film she is aware and sure he will not come and
find her. This is the kind of rapport they built up during the movie,
almost the blind leading the blind. Lecter had a sense of dependency on
Starling as much as she had upon him, although she to a more extreme
extent. Hopkin's and Foster play the characters with absolute precision and to
this day I know anyone else having been cast in those roles would have
not found themselves anywhere near the on-screen chemistry (platonic,
of course) that the aforementioned actors had. Hopkin's is in a class
of his own as the mentally inept yet frighteningly intelligent Lecter
and Foster is equally magnetic as the vulnerable, shielding Starling
trying her hardest to face the horrors in front of her. Her reliance on
Lecter is more than just meets the eye - Her main priorities were to
deal with the "Buffalo Bill" case but you can see having spoken to
Lecter on numerous levels she took a sense of knowledge and experience
out of it. The connection on an emotional level was fantastic to watch,
especially as Lecter purges out Starling's memories of her troubled
youth. Foster, in particular, played this part wonderfully.My favourite scene is most probably when Clarice is visiting the home
of one of "Bill's" victim, and whilst looking around the rooms she
notices the closet, adorned with fabric reading in dress making.
Realising what Bill is doing to his victims (and without trying to give
too much away) she immediately phones HQ and the desperation in her
voice as she tries to articulate her discovery is the first in many
climax's the film offers.Behind the clear thriller sense of the film and the tendency to sit on
the edge of your seat (the first time you watch it, you will have a
completely new concept of a "thriller/horror" movie, especially if you
are seeing it for the first time from here forth) the stories of the
character weave so well together and as well as enjoying the build up
of suspense, you also come to appreciate the characters themselves. In
my humble opinion the prequel and sequel of Silence of the Lambs didn't
get near what this 1991 excellence gave to the audience. A definite 9/10.


******
2 May 2004
9

This is quite possibly the scariest movie since "The Exorcist".
Metaphorically speaking, Hannibal Lecter appears to be The Serpent to
Clarice Starling's Eve. Hannibal is a member of elite society; a
representation of the best our civilization has to offer. His  Jeckyl-Hyde
persona is a mockery of that civilization, and thus Satan-like. Starling,
the would-be savior of the "lambs", is inexplicably drawn to him. This is
without a doubt one of the best good-vs-evil stories ever filmed. The
cast,
from Anthony Hopkins, to Jodie Foster, to Anthony Heald as the creepy Dr.
Chilton, to the unforgettable Ted Levine as Buffalo Bill, was remarkable.
It
would have gotten a 10, but certain plot elements weren't very plausible,
such as the FBI assigning a student to the case. Otherwise it was a great
film.

******
1 May 2004
10

the silence of the lambs is a truly excellent and clever film. it mixes
action, suspense and sends shivers down your spine. throughout it has
witty
dialogue, which adds to the brilliance of the film. not only is the plot
and
the screenplay good, but the stars are on top form as well. the young
jodie
foster shows us her acting skills as she portrays the up-and-coming fbi
agent clarice starling. she plays the character so well and she deservedly
won the best-actress oscar for this film. anthony hopkins, as the
psychotic
hannibal "the cannibal" lector, doesn't let jodie have all the limelight
and
puts in a stunningly good performance as a villain. just like jodie, he
deservedly won the best-actor oscar for "silence of the lambs". it is not
surprising then when the best scenes in this film are between starling and
lector. the chemistry is undoubted and i thoroughly enjoyed the chilling
conversations between the two. silence of the lambs also won the oscar for
best film . i would recommend this film to anyone. 

******
13 April 2004
10

The Silence of the Lambs is one of the most thrilling, well-made movies of
all time. Having been drawn up from Thomas Harris' bestselling novel, the
movie is flawlessly written and possesses immaculate acting from all
characters involved, which becomes, deservedly, the heart of the
film.
While all involved became their roles and acted superbly, it is really Jodie
Foster and Anthony Hopkins who take the credit come judging time. The
characters are so different: Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter, AFI's number one
villain, a freakishly brilliant and frighteningly destructive serial
cannibal, whose psychotic mind hosts the facts and clues everyone needs to
solve the case and track down the elusive Buffalo Bill. Foster is Clarice
Starling, the protagonist, the incredibly strong, courageous and sharp
heroine of the story, who overcomes her scarred past and measly FBI trainee
label to surge past the real FBI and catch up to Bill herself.
It is impossible to walk away from this film without numerous thoughts
racing through your mind, especially about the sparkling acting, story,
directing and all-around movie's production. Silence of the Lambs has become
one of America's greatest films, a psychological thriller that makes you
think every step of the way.
Oscars for best actress Jodie Foster, actor Anthony Hopkins and director
Jonathan Demme. Well deserved.

******
7 April 2004
10

One of the great movies compared to the book execllent but it needed more
info on lector and more backround towards him instead of bufallo bill...
if
they chose to keep lectar as a minor charecter [ they didnt] then it would
be ok not to give to much descriptive details.. it still was a very good
movie besides some other atachtments to it .. Another good thing to do was
to mainly do some backround on the trial of lectar which was the one that
got him in the prison in the first place.. the movie on the other hand was
a
very good one considering it invovled a cereal killer unlike scream [ the
worst thing that i would call a horror film] it had a unique touch to it
that made it so popular

******
15 February 2004
10

A shocking, unforgettable movie. The performance of the cast is brilliant
(Anthony Hopkins is particularly terrifying in his role) and the script is
just amazing. One of the better psychological horror movies i've ever
seen.

******
8 February 2004
10

You realize you're in a different sort of thriller when Clarice Starling
walks down that corridor, trying to ignore the cat-calls of a cell-block
full of lunatics, only to find that the most dangerous inmate on the block
is standing calmly in his cell, waiting for her, almost as if he's welcoming
her to a cocktail party. Rare is the movie that gets everything right, but
"The Silence of the Lambs" comes awfully close to providing the perfect
example for a modern thriller. It's so disturbing to watch for some people
that it's often described as a horror movie, which says more about other
films involving serial killing, in my opinion, than it does about this one.
We're not used to crime thrillers that actually show killing and its
aftermath in gruesome, clinical detail-- "The Silence of the Lambs" does.
We're not used to films showing us psychopaths of unnerving ferocity-- "The
Silence of the Lambs" does. Most importantly, we're not used to seeing this
kind of story presented in such a matter-of-fact way-- "The Silence of
Lambs" is never showy in its camera work or its performances. Most crime
thrillers don't quite thrill, and certainly don't frighten, because you
never quite believe them. You believe "The Silence of the Lambs", especially
when you wish you didn't.

******
5 February 2004
10

A real 10/10 movie. It really deserves the big 5 Oscars that it got (Best
Movie, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Actress and Best
Screenplay).Dr. Hannibal played by Anthony Hopkins is one of the best and most
memorable
characters ever created in Hollywood movies ("Hello Clarice"). His voice
is
really spine chilling. A must see if there was ever one...

******
30 January 2004
10

I think that "Silence of the lambs" is the BEST movie ever made!! It's so
brilliant and the actors are so great, especially Jodie Foster and Anthony
Hopkins. They really deserved their Oscars... If you haven't seen the best
thriller in the world, GO SEE IT NOW!! :)

******
29 January 2004
10

Now, surely EVERYONE has seen this film.....
I am a fan of the books, and was delighted when was made into a film
(despite me being 13 when it was released!!!!)
I wasnt disappointed, Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins, put on massive
performances.
Hopkins is the show stealer though, and he thrives off of jodie foster
genuinely looking scared in the prison sequences.
Well, the end line for this is that if you havent see it, please do as
you'll miss one of the best horrors since Pyscho.
and if you have, i dont need to tell you how good it is!!!
i rated it a 10 by the way- not many films ive rated 10
either!any questions would be answered at my email address.

******
29 January 2004
10

Now, surely EVERYONE has seen this film.....
I am a fan of the books, and was delighted when was made into a film
(despite me being 13 when it was released!!!!)
I wasnt disappointed, Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins, put on massive
performances.
Hopkins is the show stealer though, and he thrives off of jodie foster
genuinely looking scared in the prison sequences.
Well, the end line for this is that if you havent see it, please do as
you'll miss one of the best horrors since Pyscho.
and if you have, i dont need to tell you how good it is!!!
i rated it a 10 by the way- not many films ive rated 10
either!any questions would be answered at my email address.

******
26 January 2004
10

I only watched this film because I'm studying Jodie Foster films for my
university thesis. I started the thesis three months ago and Ive become
somewhat hooked on SILENCE OF THE LAMBS. A truly magnificent and definetly
Jodie Foster's best. Sir Anthony Hopkins was incredibly chilling in this
film and its one of the few films that does send tension and chills through
my spine. Both Foster and Hopkins deserved the acting Oscar for their roles- Foster
was so perfect as the brilliant but vulnerable Starling. Its a shame that
HANNIBAL could not beat this film.It deserves a higher ranking on this list than 26!10/10H xxxxxx

******
24 January 2004
10

Silence of the Lambs is one of the only movies to win best picture that
truly deserved it.  Not only did it win Best Picture, but also, actress,
actor, director and screenplay, sweeping the five biggest awards.  A huge
accomplishment!
The brilliant acting of both Hopkins, Foster and the directing of Demme
create what I believe to be the most intelligent, suspenseful piece of
cinema ever created.  I have seen this movie over 100 times and never tire
of it.  Amazing soundtrack too!

******
16 November 2003
10

I'll probebly have the shortest review on the imdb message board for this
movie. what's to say? It's all been said, the film is a modern day
classic-the ultimate in crime dramas/psychological thrillers etc etc-it puts
other thrillers like "kiss the girls" to shame.I don't think this was overtated, I know few people who, even if they can't
sit through it don't at least have a high level of respect for this movie.
Hopquins and Foster just made this superb, their interaction on screen was
fascinating-just fascinating-the ultimate in the cat and mouse and this
movie besides being the ultimate in suspence was also strangely
touching.I almost didn't see this, I was told it was so difficult to sit though but
it really wasn't. I haven't seen part 2 or 3, I don't want to-nothing could
possibly measure up and Jodie Foster probebly knew this after all we don't
see her in the sequel.To wind up, this isn't just a good film, it's superb.And the academy knew it
to, I just wish they hadn't made a sequel.

******
21 October 2003
10
For character development of Hannibal Lecter, please view Red Dragon,
first.It is the prequel to this movie, and bestows the viewer with much
needed information not gleaned from this production.The end of "Red Dragon" tells us that Hannibal has an upcoming visit
from another FBI agent to look forward to; a female agent. He asks for
her name but due to the nature of prequels, we already have that
information: Clarice Starling. This is one of those Oscars-dominating
movies whose name was on the tip of everyone's tongue for a while. From
time to time, a movie comes along which is so annoyingly popular as to
make me wish to never see it. Mainstream popularity is not wholly attractive to me, and I tend to
avoid it at all costs. However, I was forced to view this film as a
class requirement in college. So I rented it, determined to hate it. First of all, the whole movie, although released in the early 90's,
appears to be obsessed with the 1980's. The clothing, the hair styles,
the clichés, the soundtrack, and the atmosphere seems to be wrapped in
a time warp. Starling's (Jodie Foster) character in particular, seems
to be a walking cliché. She is a hapless hick; an unfortunate who is,
as Lecter put it, "...one generation away from poor white trash." Secondly. I was born in the south, and I can tell you that her accent,
though sometimes a decent reminiscing of poor West Virginia, is
horrible. It comes and goes seemingly at whim. Third. The training and knowledge Starling exhibits, combined with the
fact that she grew up poor, in a home where sewing was almost a certain
necessity, the fact that she missed the obvious sewing patterns of skin
removed from the victims just does not work for me. I grew up upper
middle class, and I knew in the first 30 minutes what Buffalo Bill was
up to. Her character should have been written to be more intelligent.
She was able to puzzle out Lecter's riddles, but not see what was
staring her right in the face? And lastly. While the film quality is horrible; grainy and low quality,
the cinematography itself is startlingly good.All that having been said, the psychological aspects of this film are
above reproach. Dr. Lecter's character, portrayed brilliantly by
Anthony Hopkins, is the perfect portrayal of a psychopathic sycophant
with a "taste" for high society. As a slave to his own superiority, he is a thousand times more
dangerous than those psychopaths who believe they are on a holy
mission, or at the head of some spiritual metamorphosis into a higher
state of being. Lecter is under no such delusion. He is the brilliant sociopath who can
blend into society without casting even the briefest hesitation in our
acceptance of his social graces and high society politeness. He does as
he does, merely as a means to humor himself, and for no other reason.
There are no outward clues or appearances of anything gone wrong within
and therefore, is all the more deadly for it. He simply...is. His manipulation of Starling is on a high intellectual level. He is a
sage of such devious management of others' minds. His knowledge of
Buffalo Bill, the newest personification of sickness, brings Starling
to his cell. As a brilliant psychiatrist turned "Chesapeake Slasher,"
Lecter has had the opportunity to touch many lives; to shape, mold, and
guide others less fortunate than he. Indeed, his influence may very
well have assisted Buffalo Bill in his crossing the stream between
being a confused and needy individual, to that of a homicidal
psychopath. Many researchers have agreed that offender profiling can be a useful
tool in solving serial homicides (Egger, 1998; Stevens, 1997; Holmes,
1998; Canter, 1994; Douglas and Olshaker, 1995). However, the question
remains as to whether the lack of ability the modern police department
has in dealing with serial homicide has created a real need for this
type of investigative practice. A lack of psychological training, limited resources, and an apparent
rise in serial homicide rates may be creating the appearance that
police need new investigative techniques, when in reality what may be
more appropriate is a higher standard of psychological training among
police investigators. The number of serial killers presently active in the United States has
been estimated to be between 30 and 500, depending on the source
(O'Reilly-Fleming, 1996). Just think. With the possibility of 500
serial killers who are "active" in the US, how many of them are as
educated and intelligent as the character of Hannibal Lecter? The
statistics are chilling at an estimation of 80% (O'Reilly-Fleming,
1996). Many serial killers are professionals; doctors, lawyers, even law
enforcement personnel or city employees. People who have passed the
civil service tests, psychological evaluations, and thorough
screenings. Sociopaths are such due to their ability to "blend in" with
our society without any obvious dysfunctions. How many people do you know who are a little "quirky," eccentric, or
just plain freaky? Chances are, they are not the homicidal maniacs in
your lives. Chances are, they are the very polite, nice, friendly and
helpful person at the drug store where you go; the empathetic lab tech
who is drawing your blood; the family physician with the terminal
smile...think about this, and these movies, next time you encounter an
overly-polite stranger. Just a thought. This movie rates a 9.8/10 from...the Fiend :.

******
21 August 2003
9

My absolute favorite ! Glued to the screen from frame 1 till the end.
There
are a lot of good things to be said about this movie and have already been
said. One thing however, which I find is great about this movie, but which
is hardly mentioned is that it keeps you at a 100% suspense level without
going into a "shocking" scene. I mean there are no kiekaboe scenes (you
expect someone to jump from behind a tree in the opening scene, etc), no
special stunning effects, no bloody scenes (the camera is on Lectors face
when he kills the policeman), etc, etc. Nothing really scary is directly
shown, all is in the suggestion that something is going to happen. Great
!

******
20 August 2003
10

I still can't get over how well made this is. Even after 12 years. This
ranks as the best suspense movie that has ever been made and ever will be
made. I have seen this movie about 5 times and I am still on the edge of
my
seat with excitement. This movie never really scares(that is because I
don't
get scared that often at movies),but it intrigues me to the bone. I know
Hannibal is a criminal and a villan, but ya can't help getting a kick out
of
him. Anthony Hopkins,to me, is the best actor in Hollywood. Jodie Foster
played an incredible part as well. No one could have played that part but
her.She was so calm about everything.Even when she was being freaked
out.If
ya haven't seen this flick yet what are ya waiting for???

******
6 August 2003
10

The subtext of Silence of the Lambs is phenomenal considering it is the work
of Jonathan Demme.  He is not a creative person, but it is a blessing that
this movie lacks any subtle directorial touches.  The focus is on the
actors, not the circumstances.  This is evident in Howard Shore's score, a
mix of the conventional horror movie and the old school thriller.  It is not
particularly pompous, but it doesn't need to be.Jodie Foster attempts to be deep, if it weren't for Demme's camera she would
be nothing more than a decoration.  Her accent is just a distraction from
her actions, by golly I hated it.Anthony Hopkins is the dominant feature of the entire film.  More than him,
it is his character.  Hannibal is certainly one of the 10 deepest characters
ever created for film, he has superseded Hopkins himself.  Notice how the
camera loves Hannibal and he loves it back.  Hopkins will never be better
despite recent efforts to eclipse his role.  Hollywood has tried cashing in
on Hannibal Lecter's persona, but never understanding the context enough. 
Gore doesn't substitute for script.  The final parody, of course, is the way Demme presents America as either a
victim or something hidden in a closet.  The apparition never gets to see
the light of day because it is constantly being snuffed out at night by the
forces of evil.  Maybe he was being prophetic in his primitive
mind.Given the documentary style of the film, it is interesting how much
attention is given to Jame Gumb.  Had he been absent more often, I'm certain
it would've helped the suspense, but one must wonder ahead of time where the
story is going.  We can guess what Clarice is going to do ahead of time, but
what about Hannibal?  That is the fault of the editors, but Silence of the
Lambs is certainly better edited than Batman or Empire of the Sun.  It is
gruesome, not for titillation in the fashion of Friday the 13th. Rather, it
is present for the sense of realism.  Might I add that this is one of the
most disturbingly dark movies ever made.Overall, a well-deserving winner of Best Picture (for once I agree with the
accursed Academy of fools) that stands out in its genre.  Horror will never
be the same.  I would have preferred if Foster didn't have that nagging
accent, but that's a small price to pay for a lack of a message in the film.
 Geometrically superior to its so-called 'sequels'.  4.5 out of 5
stars.

******
4 August 2003
10

This film pioneered the Hollywood image of today's serial killer.  Well
researched, there are minimal flaws to ruin the credibility of the
gruesomely graphic files of both the cannibal Lector and "Buffalo Bill".Ted Bundy, Jeffery Dalhmer, Clifford Olson, and lately Robert Picton have
exposed the world to the sensational world of the serial killer.  The
media
exploits the stories of these demented murderers as the consumer watches
in
disgusted amazement.Silence of the Lambs showed a somewhat accurate, yet oversensationized
view
of the takedown of a mysterious freak of society.  The killer, first
portrayed as an unknown to his victims, makes you feel vulnerable, like
it
could be anyone.  Toward the end of the film it is revealed that the
killer
was known to at least one of the victims, leaving you feel as though it
could be your neighbour, or uncle.This wonderful movie will have you looking over your shoulder and second
glancing at those strangers who pass you by.

******
25 July 2003
9

This movie is the perfect example of the magic that can happen when you
have
a great script,superb actors and a director who can make it work.  Unlike
its sequal Hannibal, which was too over the top with its movement lacking
cohesion, unessary and confusing artsy/fartsy b.s., violence and gore that
it left the plot and characters involved weak and under-developed while
the
prequal-sequal Red-Dragon although a descent piece of work did not go the
extra mile to really develop the characters and the story itself was much
too "similar" to the story-line of Silence to stand out on its own as
being
anything other than "what you might expect". Silence stands on its own as
a
dramatic and meaningful peice of cinema with a well developed plot and
deep
charactars that pull you in and take you on a chilling thrill ride.  This
is
one of those great movies that stick with you and stand the test of time.


******
18 July 2003
10

The silence of the lambs earns its prestigious distinction as the third
movie ever to sweep the big five at the Oscars. Foster plays young but
exceptional Clarice Starling, who in efforts to hunt down a serial killer
holding a woman hostage, must interview another such psychopath. The mind
of
former psychiatrist Dr. Hannibal Lecter is twisted but brillant, and may
hold the key to the mind of the man the FBI is looking for...but in order
to
get at this information and earn his trust, Clarice must use her only
bargaining chip: The revelations of her own deepest fears and
vulnerabilities. Truly creepy, smart and astoundingly good, this movie
deserves the hype... A must see 

******
21 June 2003
9

The only thing taking away from Silence of the Lambs are the atrocious
sequels that followed. As a stand alone piece, Silence has to rate with
the
top movies of all time. Anthony Hopkins portrays the greatest villian
ever
in Hannibal Lecter and Jodie Foster (who was sorely needed in the
sequels)
is terrific as Clarice. Anthony Heald gives an underrated performance in
his
supporting role also. Silence is mandatory viewing but to get Silence in
its
full glory you must ignore the sequels.My rating : @@@@@ (out of five)

******
18 June 2003
10

A few years ago I tried to watch The Silence of the Lambs but there were
many distractions and I was unable to follow it properly. Having had Red
Dragon delivered to me accidentally (my own fault, through not cancelling
the order) and thinking it was brilliant, I decided to invest in The Silence
of the Lambs. And I am delighted that I did. It is the best psychological
horror/thriller I have ever seen, and Anthony Hopkins is undoubtedly one of
my favourite actors, especially after seeing his first class performance in
this film. He has such presence on-screen, a real intensity, and fantastic
chemistry with his co-star Jodie Foster. He completely underplays his
character, largely only talking for the majority of the film, yet you cannot
help but watch him in awe when he is on the screen. I also found - and I'm
sure others did too - that I was unable to hate Hannibal Lecter. Despite
what he has done, and seeing what he is capable of, Hopkins's portrayal of
him makes you think that somewhere inside him he is capable of feeling, and
his developing relationship with Clarice shows this. What also makes The
Silence of the Lambs exceptional is it's surprising lack of violence and
gore. There is only one scene that some may find disturbing (but it had to
be in there somewhere!), but other than that it is the gripping storyline,
and the wonderful acting that keeps you glued to the screen. The Silence of
the Lambs does not need to rely on the cannibalism issue to interest people,
and when you think about it, the film is not really about cannibalism.
Hannibal Lecter is a serial killer - oh, and he's got a taste for
cannibalism as well. Perhaps the only reason it is remembered so much for
this is because - in my opinion - no other film has managed to use this
subject in an effective way. There would be nothing entertaining in seeing
bloody, gory images of someone cannibalising someone throughout an entire
film. A good storyline is needed to make this kind of film work, and that's
exactly why it does work - it's brilliant in every way, and I cannot fault
it.

******
1 June 2003
10

Silence of the Lambs is a modern day classic. That is all anyone can say
about it. From the day it hit theaters, this was the movie that defined
the
psycho-serial killer drama. Even more, though, the movie is able to escape
the horror genre and explore other themes, which is perhaps the main
reason
it has garnered as many accolades as it has. In recent cinema, I cannot
recall another movie that had won the top five awards at the Oscars
(Picture, Director, Screenplay, Actor, and Actress) and all deserved for
that matter.The movie still keeps me on the edge of my seat every time I watch it, and
believe me, I've watched it numerous times. The best part about it is that
I
find new things to marvel over every time I watch it and the special
features on the DVD version enlighten me to even more exciting new things.
This was the role of a lifetime for Jodie Foster. In fact, Foster's
portrayal of Starling was a pivotal part of the movie. Her humility and
vulnerability contrasting with her strong convictions and go-get-em
attitude
created the perfectly believable character. Her role as a young FBI agent
separated from her male counterparts opens the door for gender analysis as
well. Furthermore, the chemistry between Hopkins and Foster was so strong
that it created the `Beauty and the Beast' relationship originally
intended
by author Thomas Harris.It's hard to pinpoint exactly what is so remarkable about Demme's film,
other than that it's just a good movie. Oftentimes, the film is dark, but
it
is executed with such deft that the film never loses its viewer.

******
15 May 2003
10

Silence of The Lambs is a real creepy little thriller . In my opinion it's
one of the best thrillers ever made . Anthony Hopkins appears in his first
and most effective performance as Dr.Hannibal Lecter aka Hannibal The
Cannibal . And Jodie Foster plays Clarice Starling the FBI agent in training
who hopes to catch a serial killer nicknamed Buffalo Bill with the help of
Lecter . Both Hopkins and Foster are great and they truly deserved the Best
actor/actress oscars . The rest of the cast is also very good.Director Jonathan Demme puts his money on suspense rather than blood and
guts and yet he shows violence in a brutal way when it is called for which
is certainly a very good move . Adding to the creepiness is a good score by Howard Shore.

******
11 May 2003
10

Not as graphic as people say but still disturbing POSSIBLE SPOILERS Anthony
Hopkins plays Dr Hannibal Lector a very mean man who kills people as if they
were animals enter Jodie Foster who plays Agent Clarice Starling and the Ted
Levine Who plays the serial killer who Foster is trying to catch and in
doing so she is sent to consult hannibal who uses the whole thing as a way
to escape for prison levine does well in his role as does foster but hopkins
steals the show as hannibal the cannibal reccomended 8\10 RATED R FOR STRONG
VIOLENCE LAUGAUGE BRIEF NUDITY

******
4 May 2003
9

First of all: if you have read Thomas Harrises novel and not yet seen this
film (what have you been doing?), you will find that they differ. This is
not a bad thing at all, this is one of the best cinematic adaptations of a
novel I have ever seen. So, there.*******POSSIBLE SPOILER BELOW!!!*******The plot starts out when young FBI agent trainee Clarice Starling (Foster)
is assigned to interview the definitely terrifying Dr Hannibal Lecter
(Hopkins). Dr Lecter is a serial killer, now imprisoned in a mental
institution. He is believed to have information concerning a murderer on
the
loose. But he is unwilling to help, unless he receives something in
return...For anyone who has read Thomas Harrises novel, you will know that in his
stories, everything is psychological. What is so wonderful about this
cinematic adaptation is that it has really captured the spirit of Harrises
writing. With the "Hannibal the Cannibal" reference, the filmmakers could
easily have been driven to turn this into a gorefest. Instead, the
interaction between the charachters is central. This is most prominent in
the scenes where Foster and Hopkins are face-to-face. It is wonderful to
see
two such actors of quality really create something more, a connection that
reaches from the screen right to the viewer. It only goes to show that you
don't need excessive force or blood spurting in every scene to convey
horror
or fright to an audience. Sometimes, two people's eyes meeting is all it
takes. Also, there are plenty of classical one-liners delivered by Hopkins
along the way, guaranteed to send chills down your spine.Finally: though this IS a psychological thriller more than a violent
horror
flick, it has its share of more violent scenes. Hence, if you dislike
explicit violence, I sincerely recommend Hitchcock's "Psycho" instead.
What
this however is, is excellence in suspense- one of the greatest thrillers
I
have ever seen, and a magnificent display of acting skills. Ms Foster, Mr
Hopkins- I salute you. 

******
2 May 2003
10

***Warning: SPOILERS herein***One of the few Best Picture winners (not that the A.A.S. is any great
measure of quality), and the only one since I've been alive, that I
actually
think may have been one of the best pictures of the year it came out, if
not
the best.  It's not without flaws, but it certainly offers some of those
most riveting examples of mainstream filmmaking.The plot: lt. Jack Crawford sends one of his top academy students,
Clarice
Sterling (played with unwavering focus by Jodie Foster), unbeknownst to
her,
as a covert, but feeble and desperate attempt to extract information
about a
serial killer on the loose from genius psychiatrist Hannibal Lector
(Anthony
Hopkins, who, I imagine, will never be able to usurp this performance)
who
is incarcerated in an asylum for the criminally insane.  She exchanges
information about the killer for biographical details about herself.
Through F.B.I. missteps, Lector manipulates the situation towards freedom
while guiding Sterling to the killer and recognition for her efforts.
All
the while, there is the subplot involving the killer and his current
victim
from her initial kidnapping towards the end of her captivity.  The killer
feels he is a transsexual failed by society and modern medicine, who
takes
his aggression out by selecting over-weight females, kidnapping and
starving
them, before killing them and removing their skins.The film takes itself mostly seriously with a slightly off-beat tone one
could expect from director Jonathan Demme.  However, it's the ending,
while
fun and clever, that throws into question the film's integrity.  Did we
just
witness the emotional journey of a young woman's plight to deal with her
childhood ghosts while trying to save another young woman from dying or
are
we rooting for a truly psychotic man too intelligent and bored with this
world while our tongues are pressed firmly in our cheeks?  The film is
mostly representational of the novel, which has an easier time alluding
these questions with its pulpish nature.Whatever the case, the interaction between Foster and Hopkins are
chilling
and mesmerizing.  The scenes with Ted Levine as James Gumb are mostly
gruesome and disturbing, but hardly worth protesting for negative gay
stereotyping. (I feel the same sentiment towards Basic Instinct was
unfounded; however, it probably did help them both at the box office, I
imagine)  For a film where you know who the serial killer is from the
beginning, it's engaging and suspenseful none-the-less.  And Clarice
Sterling offers its audience a modern heroine which they embraced, which
isn't that frequent, if you think about it.  She's just finds herself in
the
confines of a film whose intentions are somewhat dubious.The success of `Lambs' ignited an inferno with the serial killer genre wh
ich
became hugely popular with inferior-quality, even more dishonest films
like
`Se7en' and `Fallen.'  I own a DVD-version of the film and watch scenes
every now and then, but mostly for the camp its degenerated
to.10: One of the few films, one can use the term "modern classic," though
its
not exactly classy.


******
2 May 2003
10

I don't care who says this film is boring. True, I love slashers, but this
film outshines anything. Even Star Wars and The Godfather cannot match the
humanity, the horror shown in this movie.
FBI Trainee Clariece Starling, {Jodie Foster} is assigned to hunt down
vicious transsexual killer Jame "Buffalo Bill" Gumb {Ted Levine, in his
greatest performance ever}, but is forced to enlist the help of a
brilliant,
insane former psychiatrist, Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter {Played to
the hilt by Sir Anthony Hopkins}. Now, she must hunt down Buffalo Bill to
rescue a Senators daughter, all the while trying to keep from falling into
Hannibals mind.Anyone who hates this film wouldn't know a good film if it hit you in the
face. So many people complain about this movie being boring, but just
because it doesn't have some masked maniac running around with a hacksaw
butchering scantily dressed teens doesn't make it bad; au contraire, it
makes it great. The horror is implied, and even great thrillers like Se7en
and The Shining pale in comparison with this film. You just have to pay
attention.Combine this with great acting on the parts of Hopkins, Foster, and
Levine,
and you have a truly wonderful {and terrorfying} classic.10/10

******
10 April 2003
10
This movie is one of my fav movies, maybe the one best movie i like.
there
are scenes in the movie which can be defined as classical. the acting and
performance of Anthony Hopkins is just perfect, couldn't be better. It
has
all the elements such a movie needs... the thrill and suspense, the
images
of the victims and of corse this sick black drama. i even think there is
a
special unique love story in the film between Hannibal Lecter and Clarice
Starling!you may have noticed all this talk was general, well i don't want to
spoil
the movie for those who haven't seen it... but i surely recommend this
movie
for you. but be careful, this movie can effect you and several levels. it
did to me.


******
10 April 2003
10

May contain SPOILERSI love this film, even though the book is better. Truly deserving of the
oscars that it won, and probably more.Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster make a winning combination that is
simply
irresistable. The atmospheric scenes are wonderful; Hopkins' stunning and
chilling performance is truly unforgettable. It appeared to unnerve
Foster
with fantastic results. She is totally convincing as the FBI trainee, and
her scenes with Hopkins are among the best film scenes ever. Good
supporting
performances are provided by Scott Glen and Ted Levine, the later as a
despicable transexual serial killer, shows skill in his limited screen
time.The scene in which Hannibal Lecter escapes his prison cell is superbly
directed, and the result - the famous face removing incident, and the
subsequent positioning of one of the bodies are fantastic.Hopkins performance is such that I felt glad as he escaped, and walked
free
at the end."I'd love to talk but I'm having an old friend for dinner."This classic quote could be quite disturbing - until you see who the
intended victim is.Overall a quite brilliant film expertly adapted from a quite brilliant
book.
10/10

******
23 February 2003
10

This movie was very scary. Buffalo Bill was freaky and Hannibal Lecter was
thrilling. This movie is a lot different from other movies because of the
plot. It was sort of about Jodie Foster and the crying lambs but it was also
about Buffalo Bill and his skin coat. The best part is when Hannibal wears
the cop's face to get out of the building. It is a great movie you should 
go rent it,Now! 

******
13 January 2003
10

POSSIBLE SPOILERS 
The Silence of the Lambs has become one of my favorite movies of all time. I
love it. I can almost memorize the entire script and everything that
happens.
A man known as Buffalo Bill is abducting large women, killing them, skinning
them, and dumping them into a lake. The most recent abduction happens to be
a young woman, the daughter of the Senator Tennesee. 
A "rookie" FBI agent named Clarice Starling played by the beautiful Jodie
Foster is sent to investigate. In order to catch Buffalo Bill she must speak
with another murderer: Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter played by the man
born to play Dr. Lecter: Anthony Hopkins. If you notice he doesn't blink
once during the entire movie. (Winks don't count. And in his new cell
doesn't count either.) 
There is only one scene in the movie I didn't like. The scene I will not
mention because it is just nasty to see a guy like that. But it did play an
important part to the movie. It just showed how deranged and weird Buffalo
Bill was. 
This has got to be one of the best movies ever created.
10/10

******
30 December 2002
10

After I saw Red Dragon in November and loved it I knew I had to see Silence
of the Lambs, and when I did I was just amazed.  As far as I can tell, this
film is as close to perfection as any other that I have
seen.Firstly, the acting was simply outstanding.  Although I was more than a
little distracted by the fact that Clarice Starling had a deeper voice than
mine, her character grew on me.  (Another small distraction - does anyone
else think Chilton looks like Desmond "Q" Llewelyn?!)  Anthony
Hopkins.....well, where do you start.  He plays Hannibal more like an animal
than a person with the idea that he can smell you before he sees you, and
when he's killing the cops he hardly shows any emotion.  There is a lot of
dark humour in the role - I found myself laughing (if nervously) at lines
like "Closer, please!  Closer!", the census taker/fava beans line and of
course "I'm having an old friend for dinner"!  I'm glad I watched it Boxing
Day morning cos if I'd seen it at night then I don't think I'd have turned
out the light! The thing I found most amazing is that Hopkins acually
manages to make you feel for Lecter (especially when Chilton is laughing at
him not getting to the sort of free hospital thing).The way the camera work was done - all those close ups - made you almost
shrink back from the screen. When Lecter comes into the light and his face
is filling the screen, You say to yourself "no, go away!"  I only saw this
on a TV and it was bad enough; in the cinema there would be a terrible
feeling of claustrophobia, and that there is no way out. 
Genius.Also, despite the fact that this is a film about two serial killers, it is
not particularly gory.  A lot is left to the imagination, such as the
picture Chilton shows Starling before she meets Lecter for the first time. 
Part of you wants to see the gory picture, and at the same time your
imagination is running at fever pitch, thinking what it could look like,
what he could have done.....and it ends up, of course, with your imagination
making the tension almost unbearable - you know he eats people, but how and
why?......!The music is not particularly memorable, but it IS very atmospheric and
undoubtedly sets the mood and feel of the film, so it serves its purpose
very well. All in all, quite possibly the most well rounded and perfectly executed film
I have ever seen.  It appeals to the darker side in all of us, and makes our
imaginations run wild.  It really does take you into the darker reaches of
the human psyche (and aren't you all glad that when it's over you can look
around your cosy house and then pad off into the kitchen for some Fava
beans, or maybe a nice Chianti??!!)

******
30 December 2002
10

I just finished watching the movie the entire way through. I have seen bits
and pieces of it, but I never got to watching it the entire way through
thanks to it being on "family friendly" TV, thus cutting out all the good
stuff.By good stuff, I mean, really good stuff. This movie is a heart-pounding
edge-of-your-seat thriller with the talents of Jodie Foster and Anthony
Hopkins.Howard Shore was also responsible for the soundtrack. I am very familiar
with his work, and this soundtrack didn't fall short of what he could
do.The story was breathtaking. I really have never seen anything like it. The
movie itself was incredible. I give it a 10/10. Goody,
goody.

******
27 December 2002
9

Silence of the Lambs is a truly memorable suspense thriller which deservedly
won the Oscar for best picture and Oscars for Hopkins and Foster. The best
scenes are the ones with Hopkin's Lecter especially when he is conversing
with Foster's Starling. Hopkins internalizes wonderfully throughout, and,
wisely, he and director Jonathan Demme avoid taking his character over the
top. Highly recommended, 9/10.

******
13 December 2002
10

'The Silence of the Lambs,' the second adaptation in a trilogy of Thomas
Harris novels, is simply outstanding.  Jodie Foster (Best Actress) and
Anthony Hopkins (Best Actor), as FBI trainee Clarice Starling and the
infamous Dr. Hannibal Lecter, steal the show.Clarice Starling is summoned into FBI Agent Crawford's (Scott Glenn)
office,
where she learns that she will be interviewing the brilliant cannibal.
what
ensues is a fantastic rendition of Harris's crime novel.  Obviously, any
film that garners 5 Oscars is sure to be an exciting dose of
entertainment.If you enjoy this film, you're sure to enjoy 'Red Dragon' and possibly
'Hannibal,' although the latter was botched significantly.


******
24 July 2002
10

I, regretfully, saw Hannibal before Silence of the Lambs. But it of
course
made me want to see it. I went out and bought the DVD. Watched it. Then,
watched it again. This is the kind of movie that gets under your skin and
stays there. Anthony Hopkins delivers a staggering and realistic
performance
as Jodie Foster compliments his 'lead' in every way possible. I can't wait
for Red Dragon. Definitely one of the most thoroughly enjoyable films I've
ever seen. Since seeing it, I've gotten the moth (from the DVD cover)
tattooed on my back. The movie itself enchants me. There's a fine line
between genius and insane, Hannibal walks it without stumbling.

******
12 July 2002
10

Silence of the Lambs is one of those unique films. Some see Dr Hannibal
Lecter as a maniac, hannibal the canibal. That's not the way I see him.
Hannibal Lecter is a former psychiatrist ho became mad and started eating
human meat. When the film starts, he is in a kind of special prision for
danger mad people. There is a murderer free and agent Clarice Starling
(not
yet an agent at that time, but a student in FBI) is recruited to interview
Dr Lecter in order to find out information about the murderer. Dr Lecter
is
one of the most intelligent characters present in films nowadays and
Silence
of the lambs is the best film I've ever watched.

******
26 May 2002
10

Even now, some years after the release of The Silence of the Lambs, the film
remains to be one of the most well crafted thrillers ever made.  The way the
action scenes are shot; the diabolical writing; and most of all, the
undeniably strong performances; make The Silence of the Lambs an
unforgettable experience.  All the Academy Awards were deserving, which is a
rare occurrence.  The only problem?  Not enough of Hannibal.

******
20 May 2002
10

For once an intelligent chiller.  One that plays on the mind rather than
the
gut.  There is no explicit violence but that which is implied - as in the
scene where Dr Chilton shows Clarice the photograph of an earlier Lector
victim - is breathtaking.Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal Lector is superb, but I can't help wondering how
Brian Cox (Hannibal in "Manhunter") would have interpreted the
part.

******
5 May 2002
10

This movie was absolutely awesome.  I have seen it multiple times and
enjoyed it every time.  The acting was superb by Foster and Hopkins.  The
picture is excellent, the plot is excellent, the whole movie is just
excellent.  if you want a good scare or just want to be in suspense, I
highly recommend that you see this movie.10/10

******
4 May 2002
10

This movie is one that will live in film history. After garning five Academy
Awards, it began many shining careers. Scott Glenn was really good. It was
nice to see him as a younger person. The same thing with Anthony Hopkins. He
looked much younger (because he is). I especially enjoyed the scenes with
Ted Levine who plays Buffalo Bill, the serial madman that Agent Clarice
Starling (Jodie Foster) is assigned to find. I heard on some documentary and
on the IMDb trivia page that Buffalo Bill was a combination of three real
life killers. Ed Gein, Bundy and some other guy. I also heard that Jodie
Foster was creeped out by the making of this film. Which is probably why she
chose not to do the sequel, HANNIBAL. The film creates an eerie and chilling
mood all by itself. It lets us know that something this sick and twisted has
actually happened. All the performances in this film were great. Just about
everyone I know has seen this movie. So, I would assume that if you are
reading this review, that you have too. So, I'm not going to recommend that
you see it. I'm going to recommend that you see it again. If you want a good
scare, see this movie again. Maybe if you haven't seen it in a long time, it
will creep back into your memory and scare the hell out of you. Hannibal's
escape scene was classic. I'm sure you all remember it. THE SILENCE OF THE
LAMBS: 5/5.

******
10 April 2002
10

This is my 2nd best thriller of all time running a close 2nd to Seven but
it
is still a mesmerising expirence. The acting is top notch especially from
hannibal himself and the direction was superb.10/10

******
25 March 2002
10

The movie that will move you into a thrill and tension that will last for
long. Is not because Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins excellent plays or
Jonathan Demme best directing. Mostly because the consistency of how the
film builds an intense thrill and the "color & rhyme" that is well suited
for it. Just enjoy the movie over and over again cause there will be
another
thing that will surprise you, the more you watch this movie.


******
22 February 2002
10

It dumbfounds me how I only saw this movie for the first time in May of
2001, when it had been out since very early 1991. They plug the stuffing
out
of this movie on almost every TV show, especially those running around the
time of this movie's release. So finally, I rented it from Blockbuster,
expecting good things, because it won 5 Oscars, has Jodie Foster(who has
since become my favorite actress and dream wife) in it, and it's
notoriety.
I got more than I asked for. Jodie Foster plays Clarice Starling to the
"tee-est" of "T's". Young, beautiful, determined, brilliant, vulnerable.
Hopkins scares and intrigues me simultaneously, amazing how I would never
want to be in the same room as Hannibal Lecter, yet would not mind
terribly
if he sat down next to me on a park bench. Hopkins calculated every
movement, every speech, and basically brought Hannibal Lecter to life in
which maybe no other fictional character has been brought to life, made a
part of human consciousness. In 2010, he will face Keyzer Soze for the
title
of the most feared movie villain ever. This and "Fatal Attraction" have
the
distinction of being the only two films to ever scare me, frighten me,
seriously unsettle me. I own the movie, am soon getting the DVD, and am
sorry "Hannibal" was not as good as this. Movie deserved every award it
won,
and the infamy surrounding it is no accident. Helllllooooooo Clarice. 10
out
of 10. 

******
8 January 2002
10

This is one truly excellent and outstanding movie. Foster and Hopkins give
unforgettable performances and the movie has a great direction. Jonathan
Demme created such an intense atmosphere that the movie was very alive. The
script was clever, too, and the camerawork was very well done.Overall, this is one of the truly great movies that will never fade. It's
right up there in my personal top ten with Fight Club and Forest
Gump.
Don't miss it! 10/10

******
4 December 2001
10

It was one of those films that teenagers would have stayed up late to watch
on a Friday night, and the school playground would be buzzing for weeks
after! This film achieved that very easily. Other film's that achieved this
was Basic Instinct, and Se7en.From the moment the film is over, you NEED to see it again. Was it a dream?
Was it a nightmare? Did what you just see happen, or was it your own
imagination? That's how good this film is. It introduced us to Dr Hannibal
Lecter, arguably the greatest screen villain ever. Who could forget those
claustraphobic scenes between him and Clarice Starling? That frightening
noise of his Liver slurping antics? And that eerie "Good evening
Clarice".It won all five 'major' Oscars, and deservedly so, even though it was
realeased as early as February! A gripping storyline, and performance's make this a must see film. Just as
me and my teenage friends talked about this film many years ago, many of our
discussions continue to this day. That's a sign of a good film. Psycho is
another! The way the focus is thrown from Starling, played magnificently by
Jodie Foster, to Hannibal Lecter, Anthony Hopkins (need I say more?!), and
Buffalo Bill, a splendid Ted Levine. We are forced to observe their actions,
be they honourable, horrible, or homicidal, these are the key factors that
make this intense viewing.Of course another stroke of genius is to have a woman as the hero, heroine.
Starling, is a student at the FBI, so we feel for her as she tries to
unravel the mystery of Buffalo Bill, and her encounters with Lecter. Never
has there been such a strong overwhelming performance from a woman since
Ellen Ripley graced our screens. Starling also has a past, all hero's
usually do, and this serves as an underlying psychological issue in the
film. It's also what interests Lecter. He is very fond of her.Director Demme, never lets us and Starling forget that the world she
occupies is mostly a 'man's world', and this makes us identify with her
whether we're male or female. We WANT her to succeed. (PLOT SPOILER!) In a
perverse way, we want Lecter to escape and succeed too, but the way in which
he does so is shocking, very shocking. That scene where he discards the
officer's face is gruesome, but neccessary to further Lecter's
character.A taughtly directed thriller/horror, this film delivers on all levels. From
acting, to set and costume design. Hands up who thinks the dungeon setting
for the Starling/Lecter conversations is very atmospheric and oppressing?
And credit goes to whoever created that Lecter face mask -
ingenious.If you've been living in a cave for the last 10 years and haven't had a
chance to check out this great classic. Don't hesitate in seeing it sometime
soon. "You spook easily?" I hope so. Perfect 10. Enjoy.  


******
27 November 2001
10

This is Jonathan Demme's masterpiece. His use of editing and bringing
together a great movie that does justice to the book should make the author
Mr. Harris very proud. Every scene contributes to one of the best movies of
crime drama and would make Mr. Hitchcock stand up and say "BRAVO, I wish
that I made that one." Anthony Hopkins is Hannibal Lecter and brings out
the
best performance of his life and Jodie Foster proves her superb talent as
an
up and coming student who will make the FBI proud. This is one of the
strongest movies I've ever seen. Plus the character actors contribute
greatly and it is funny to  see them appear in a lot of Mr. Demme's movies.
I'd see anything made with his name on it.. a strong 9 stars..they just
don't make movies like this anymore. The sequel "Hannibal" doesn't even
come
close to this.

******
25 November 2001
10

This Movie is Of Course an All-Time Classic. Not only Is It Appealing For
All Age Groups, It is Thrilling and Exciting. I am Mostly a Fan of 80's
Slashers and Gory Horror Films that Haven't Won Any Awards and Are Little
Known By Anyone, But This is One of My Only Exceptions. Reccomended For
Anyone and Everyone.

******
26 August 2001
10

Could honestly be the best acting I have ever seen. The story was chilling
and fascinating and wonderfully adapted from the book. Hannibal Lector is
both a terrifying yet perplexing character. Anthony Hopkins portrays him
wonderfully, and very scary. Jodie Foster's performance was dripping with
emotion; you'd think she really went though that. In all one of the best
movies to come out of Hollywood.

******
24 August 2001
10

Silence of the lambs is one of the scariest movies of all time because of
the way Anthony Hopkins portrays Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter, people
think killers look like say Charles Manson but in silence Dr Lecter is an
intelligent cunning physiatrist bent on playing games like a spider plays
with a fly, Mr Hopkins quiet chilling portrayal of the mad doctor is
perfect, Jodie Foster as the fresh faced FBI Agent Clarice Starling is the
perfect plaything for the doctor,
Ted Levine playing Jame "Buffalo Bill" Gumb is an actor I have never heard
of before this movie but I can never see him in anything with out thinking
of his role in silence.
The writing was perfect, the acting was first rate, the directing of this
movie keeps you wondering what will happen next and when it comes you want
more.
there are very few perfect movies and this is one of them.
10 out of 10

******
22 August 2001
10

Few Hollywood films have managed to actually scare me. This
one did, so it deserves my applause. It didn't scare me because
suddenly, some monster with a knife pops out of nowhere. It
scared me because of the dark, creepy premise the film is based
on - an insight into the minds of psychopaths - and faithfully
follows from beginning to end.The images of the victims do make you shiver, and as you find out
more and more about Buffalo Bill's behavior and killing methods,
and Dr. Lecter's craving for human flesh, you shiver when you think
that there very well could be people like that on the loose.The acting - incredible. Jodie Foster couldn't have played Clarice
Starling better. Clarice, alone and vulnerable, yet so strong and
smart. Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter - wow! When you hear
Hannibal speak, you can't help but think what a smart man he is
and how amazing he is, and yet remember the man could be the
physical manifestation of evil itself. A very good mix.And when it's all over, you're left shaking and thinking about the
serial killers of the world...This is one of my all-time favorite
movies, and if you haven't seen it, pick it up - A thrilling, disturbing
look into the mind of serial killers that will leave you stirred no
matter how jaded you are, and will leave you in awe of the team's
great job.

******
22 August 2001
9

**** = A masterpiece to be recorded in the books and never
forgotten***1/2 = A classic in time; simply a must see*** = A solid, worth-while, very entertaining piece**1/2 = A good movie, but there are some uneven elements or noticeable
flaws** = May still be considered good in areas, but this work has either serious
issues or is restrained by inevitable elements deemed inescapable (e.g.,
genre)*1/2 = Mostly a heap of nothing sparked by mildly worthwhile
momentsBOMB = Not of a viewable quality- The Silence of the Lambs = ****- Rated "R" (for grisly, graphic images, language, and some
nudity)When I hear people talk about this film, it seems like it is some sort of
horror movie with excessive, extreme gore.  It really agitates me because in
fact this is almost the opposite of the truth.  "THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS"
is not a horror, but an intense drama - a thriller.  There is violence only
when necessary or to accentuate a particular scene.  However, it is the
manner in which the film is presented that intensifies the plot.  It is a
mature drama.All scenes are grim and eerie; director Demme is to blame for all the bold,
creepy images and camera work.  But still, "SILENCE" retains something more
than just a creep-fest: the plot is as tight as a rope holding a two ton
piano, and the dialogue is crisp and sophisticated.  Howard Shore's haunting
score is equally as jarring.In short, this film rings truth and still manages to creep.  I wouldn't say
"scare," although I'm sure some would.  It's just a well-produced drama, as
I say, brought up to the next level.  And it's very good.

******
21 August 2001
10

I saw Hannibal (the sequel) before seeing The Silence of the Lambs and I was
very interested in watching the original. Whenever this movie is mentioned
among people, they ALWAYS say it's incredibly scary. No one can sleep after
watching it, and that's why I was so intrigued to watch it. I was a bit
nervous while watching Silence because everyone made such a big deal about
how scary it was. While watching it, I realized Silence is an incredibly
action filled movie. It is done so well, the acting is perfect and the way
everything turns out is amazing. I have to say that I didn't find it very
scary ONLY because I had seen Hannibal before Silence. However, the ending
is very, very intense, and I can see why people say it's scary. Also, just
the fact what Hannibal Lector and Buffalo Bill do is scary enough. It's
scary and not a movie to be seen alone on a rainy Friday night, it is a
movie to see though because it is very well done.

******
15 August 2001
10

Silence of the lambs was one of the few horror movies that has actually
terrified me, and probably the one that has scared me the most. Instead of
relying on startles or cheap slasher gore for effect, this movie operates
on
its extraordinary direction and plot. The incredible imagery, and
masterfully developed characters of this movie suck you right into a world
of surreal horror and insanity. This is a must see if you enjoy scary
movies.  

******
1 March 2001
9

Adapted from Thomas Harris' best-selling novel, The Silence Of The Lambs
is
one of the few movies to win all 5 major Oscars (the others being It
Happened One Night and One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, but you knew
that...).Jodie Foster is Clarice Starling, a trainee FBI assigned to catching
Buffalo
Bill, a dangerous psychotic murderer who lures women into being murdered.
(Yeah. Watch the movie. You'll understand.) The FBI thinks that
psychologist
Hannibal Lector knows about Buffalo Bill's whereabouts. There's only one
problem: Hannibal is a cannibal. (Heehee.It rhymes.)Much has been said about this movie, but I feel like I should go over them
all over again.(Hehe. Suckers.) Johnathan Demme has created here one of
the
tensest thrillers since the days of Hitchcock. The dim lighting, music
score
and paranoid acting by Foster all make this a jump-out of your seat
thriller.The meat and potatoes of this film is Anthony Hopkins. Granted, his total
screen time is roughly 25 minutes, but what a 25 minutes! The first shot
we
see of him is a scene that has stayed engraved in my mind. His slicked
backed hair, his piercing, one-slightly-bigger-than-the-other eyes, a
manic
smile on his face, he stands in the middle of his cell. Finally, he
speaks.
His voice is the foundation of fear, the way he pronounces Clarice,
terrifying. (Cla-reees.) And the sound makes with his mouth, a swooshing,
flapping beg for human flesh, is deeply rooted in many people's
nightmares.
Hopkins won an Oscar for his performance, and rightly so. His role is a
supporting one, yes, but it is one of the most memorable, bone-chilling
performances ever. (No, really.)The rest of the movie is so tense (and disgusting) that you might want to
wear a diaper. The music score works perfectly in context, as does
Foster's
nuanced performance. There is some excellent (and morbidly disturbing, if
you think about it) sexual tension between her and Hannibal Lecter.There
are
some truly inventive scenes, such as Lecter's escape from his prison. That
scene will leave you breathless for some time, after which you will swear
under your breath. The supporting cast is equally fine. In fact, the only
problem I had with this film is that it can be quite disgusting (like I
need
a damn transvestite's closeup while he sings crappy 80's songs). Other
than
that, this is a prime example of how to do a great suspense.
9.5/10

******
15 February 2001
10

"The Silence of the Lambs" is one of the most suspensful,graphic films I
have ever see.It is a pretty damn good one too.Jodie Foster and Anthony
Hopkins have great chemistry and the directing by Jonathan Demme is
brilliant.Probably the first horror film to win the academy award for Best
Picture.

******
8 February 2001
9

When I sat down to this marinated, spiced-up thriller, I wasn't expecting
such a treat!  After all, rarely does a film come along that's as
delicious
as this.Well anyway, while on my appetizer I lost my appetite a bit while I tried
to
swallow Anthony Hopkins's excellent acting and the vulgar themes of the
film, but then as I chewed on the cannibalism, skinning, serial-killers,
and
dark tones a little more, I began to enjoy the meal.THEN I was launched into a SUPERB main course.  As I dove deeper into the
course, I found that my meal had more of a special flavor (and Anthony
Hopkins can certainly cook up a memorable line), and not to mention the
excellent Jody Foster, whose explosive dish is in no way overshadowed by
Anthony Hopkins.Then I came crashing down to the end...A delicious dessert that leads
right
into the sequel (which you can enjoy after February 9).And so, if you can stomach it, I dare you to make this YOUR main course.
You'll be surprised what you can swallow.No pun intended.  

******
8 February 2001
10

anyone who has seen this film will probably agree with me that this is
probably the best film of the 90's. It has an amazing plot and it adds
classic horror with a psychological thriller. I personally think this film
started a new era of horror because before it was always mad thick
psycho's
but this had a super intelligent slightly witty phycho. The biggest move
in
horror since 'Psycho'.

******
8 February 2001
9

This film is supposed to be scary, and it is.  The tension throughout is
unbelievable.  However, unlike others in the "thriller" or "horror" genre,
the horror is never gratuitous or hard to take.  As such, being a hater of
this genre, I only got around to watching this several years after it was
made.  Now I wish I had seen it before.  Unlike the villains who cut and slash in the standard horror films, we
understand that the psychos in this film have motivation.  You actually feel
empathy for these people, even the man who doesn't have any - Hannibal
Lecter.  You feel sorry that this obviously cultured, intelligent and, yes,
dedicated man is trapped not in a prison, but by the fact his brain can't
stop him from carrying out the worst things he can imagine.  As such, this
film sheds as much light on the criminally insane as any twelve films that
could be made about Charles Manson or any of his ilk.  Demme actually tries
to understand what makes Hannibal the man he is, and in the end we start to
understand as well.Add to this an excellent plot, engaging characters, and "good guys" that
seem more out of it than the villains and you have a must see movie even for
the most squeamish.That being said, I hope the sequel can live up to the original.  I have my
doubts, but all being said, I hope Ridley Scott pulls it
off.

******
2 February 2001
10

This is a classic, this is one of the films that should be played in Film
101 class.  This is one of the most unnerving movies ever made it is a
classic in every sense of the word, and it leaves a lasting impression on
everyone who sees it.  This is the movie that you can't miss it is one of
the best one of the 90's, and all time.  From the chilling line qouted
above, to the rest of the mayhem this is a chiller.  Hopskins is excellent
in one of the best displays of acting talent ever. You look in Hopskins eyes
and you can see pure evil, and his taunts are bone chilling.  Hopkins is
pure evil, and Hannibal Lecter is a classic villan.  Jodie Foster is great
as Clarice Starling the haunted FBI agent interviewing Lecter to find a
killer named Buffallo Bill.  Foster is purity taken back by the literate and
charming tongue of Hospkins.  This movie is pure genius and if you haven't
see it run to your nearest video store now.  For a 5 time Oscar winner that
deserved every single award it won.  I can't wait to see
Hannibal.

******
30 January 2001
10

I'm normally not one to spend much time concerning myself with who won what
Oscar and who didn't win that Oscar, but if anyone but Anthony Hopkins had
been awarded the Best Actor Oscar in 1991 I would have been bitterly
disappointed. In my opinion, Hopkins' performance as the deceptively
charming Hannibal Lecter is one of the best performances ever caught on
film. Especially if you have read the novel by Thomas Harris, Hopkins
flawlessly captures all sides of the tremendously complex personality of
Hannibal Lecter, providing for one of the main things that made The Silence
of the Lambs such a spectacular film. (possible spoilers ahead)
Another person who performed amazingly well was Ted Levine as the horribly
disturbed murderer Jame Gumb. Levine presents a startlingly convincing
portrayal of the disgustingness of this character, as well as his
psychological isolation from the normal world and other people in general,
shown with great effectiveness through the way that he talks to his victims
(`It rubs the lotion on its skin or else it gets the hose again.'). Jame
Gumb (whose first name, Jamie, had been misspelled on his birth certificate,
but he insisted on leaving it that way) is the man that the FBI is utilizing
Lecter's tremendous intelligence to try to capture. Gumb kidnaps full
figured women and cuts portions of their skins off, which he sews together
in order to make himself a full body human skin suit. One of the amazing things about this film is that it was able to win a Best
Picture Oscar while having such a gory premise, and this obviously has
something to do with the tremendous quality of the movie. It was so good
because there were so many things going on in the film.  I guess you could
say the plot was extremely thick. Clarice Starling, played excellently by
Jodie Foster, is an FBI trainee who is assigned the emotionally and
psychologically dangerous task of trying to get Lecter to talk to her,
because he sees right through all of the questionnaires and surveys given to
him by countless other, more experienced, personnel. Beyond that, Starling
is also fighting her own personal demons; she's struggling through her
training, she has to ward off the amorous advances of at least one of her
superiors, and now she is faced with an assignment that dwarfs all of those
problems. Then you have the story with Jame Gumb, and on the other side, you
have the struggle of dozens of people trying to control Lecter and get him
to talk without damaging anyone emotionally or psychologically (evidently he
was able to talk the insane inmate in the cell next to his into swallowing
his tongue one night). You also have a very detailed subplot about the types
of insects that are found on the bodies of Gumb's victims. And, of course,
you have Lecter's stunning insights, providing in one very tense scene, the
meaning of the title, The Silence of the Lambs. Clearly, Thomas Harris deserves a lot of credit for his outstanding novel,
but so do the filmmakers for their efforts at crafting this first rate
thriller. This is not exploitative cinema in any way, and it is extremely
unique in both its story as well as its presentation. Some scenes really
stood out in their originality, particularly Dr. Lecter's escape, although
it is never clearly explained how Lecter, while in restraints, was able to
get a hold of Dr. Chilton's ballpoint pen, which he had been eyeing as it
lay on the desk and which he eventually used to open his handcuffs. Luckily,
the quality of the film as a whole overshadows trivial things like this,
making them more than excusable. This is a very graphic film, make no
mistake about that, but it is so well done that it can be enjoyed by
virtually anyone.


******
30 January 2001
10

The Silence of the Lambs could quite possibly be the best movie I have
ever
seen, and I have seen a lot of movies.  I watched it twice in as many
nights.  Mixing horror, drama, and adventure has resulted in this
masterpiece.  The ending was very well done, however the VERY ending may
not
have been as appealing if I had not known that Hannibal (the sequel) will
be
released in about a week.  Do not pass this movie up!

******
19 January 2001
10

The actors are amazing, the script is almost flawless, the tension remains
for as long as your imagination permits and out of around 300 films that
I've seen this is my favorite film of all time so far... Hopefully the
Hannibal film will live up to the novel and match the understated
intelligence of both Anthony Hopkins' and Jodie Foster's performances in
T.S.O.T.L.

******
30 November 2000
10

Hands down the greatest thriller of the 90's, if not of all time. If you
have not seen Silence of the Lambs you are missing out on one of the
greatest films of all time. Anthony Hopkins seems born for this role (as
is
evidenced by the fact that it was HE who invented that hissing noise Dr.
Lecter makes at Clarice). Jodie Foster, in one of her greatest roles ever,
plays rookie FBI Agent Clarice Starling. These two actors, along with the
inspired director Jonathan Demme and marvelous screenwriter Ted Tally
joined
forces and created one of the best films ever. A brilliant psychological
thriller and a golden gem of movie making, it is must see for
everyone.

******
4 November 2000
10

The first horror film that won 5 Academy Awards... And this is the movie
that was worthy of it! This is a movie that changed our thoughts in
connection with thrillers: a horror movie can be clever, very breathtaking
and can cause catarsis.The plot is excellent, not just the script but the
book is first-class too; the actors are brilliant: Jodie Foster in the
role
of Clarice Starling is so sensitive and so fragile and vulnerable; Anthony
Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter is so calm and he is a such a cold-blooded
killer
that we can hardly stay relaxed in our armchairs...(Remember the scene
where
he kills the 2 cops and than listens to classical music...) Jonathan Demme
directed very well: he knew what to do to feel claustrophobia in the
prison-scenes, and to be afraid when we are in the house of the
serial-killer. My favorite scene is the last action sequence: Clarice
cannot
see anything, but the killer sees her: and what comes after, knows
everyone.
If you don't know what comes after, you have to check it out... The best
thriller from the 90's!   

******
3 September 2000
10

I think this film is really great because of the way it makes Anthony
Hopkins look really smart and in the film you start to like his character
even though he is a killer.  By the end of the film you are wanting him to
escape.

******
13 August 2000
10

Well, first off...I must explain that Mr. Johnson always seems to rise to
the occasion at the sight of people getting killed in horrible ways. Ever
since this movie came out back in 1991, I do not recall one morning in my
life when I have woken up in a dry bed. Nor have I gone by a day where the
image of Anthony Hopkins creepy appearance has managed to spurt out some of
that joy-juice. Burt Reynolds has mentioned this in Boogie Nights and I must
say it acts quite like a fire hydrant.Good luck with this one.

******
17 June 2000
9

Finally, I saw this movie for the first time yesterday. I've always heard
that SILENCE OF THE LAMBS was a great movie, but I'd never seen it. Now I
have, and I've learned that there was no exaggeration. This movie was
incredible; I was on the edge of my seat from beginning to
end.SILENCE OF THE LAMBS is about an FBI-trainee named Clarice Starling (Jodie
Foster) who is trying to track down and stop a serial killer named Buffalo
Bill (Ted Levine) who has been killing girls throughout the country. In
order to do so, she questions Dr. Hannibal Lector (Anthony Hopkins). Dr.
Lector is a brilliant physiologist who is a convicted serial killer. He
appears polite, but is actually a very dangerous and intelligent psychopath
who eats his victims.I can't express how great I thought this movie was. Just about every scene
with Anthony Hopkins was mesmerizing, especially his dialogue with Jodie
Foster. The last conversation between the two in this movie was chilling to
the bone. Dr. Lector's escape was probably the greatest scene in the movie,
while also one of the most disturbing. When he beats a helpless guard to
death with a nightstick, it reminds you that he is not the harmless man that
he looks like.Anthony Hopkins, of course, stole the show. He stole every single scene he
was in. Jodie Foster did a very good job also as the young, ambitious FBI
trainee trying to put an end to another madman's reign and, in doing so,
smother the pains of her past. Ted Levine also did a notable job as another
very different madman than Lector. I sincerely hated Levine's character by
the end of this movie.There are many memorable scenes in this movie. The prison break, as I
mentioned earlier, is one of the more memorable ones. The most intense scene
of the movie, in my opinion, is when Jodie Foster is being stalked in the
dark near the end of the film. Anytime that Lector talks, you will probably
feel shivers up your spine. This is one of the best movies I've ever seen.
If you still haven't seen it, see it right away.

******
29 May 2000
9

I had read the novel and was not keen on seeing the movie, but I did.  It
was an excellent movie and Anthony Hopkins, and Jodie Foster were
marvellous.  Must admit that I was frightened right through the showing of
this film, just as I was in viewing Psycho.  It was worth it.

******
27 May 2000
10

They say it's scary, and everyone thinks it's gory, but what really makes an
impact is the suspenseful and intelligent script.  It doesn't fall into any
Hollywood pratfalls of easy endings or stupid characters.Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster don't even know the meaning of stupid. 
They both perform excellently, and their chemistry is fantastic.  I won't
leave out Jonathan Demme's great work behind the camera, either.  The Oscars
were very well-deserved.Don't watch it on a quesy stomach, but be sure to watch
it!

******
25 May 2000
10

This is perhaps one of the scariest films I have ever seen.  All of the
actors, especially the talented Sir Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster
portrayed their characters beautifully.  Anthony Hopkins is the only man
who
can ever play Dr. Hanibal Lector perfectly.  This film was very deserving
of
the 5 Academy Awards that it won.  It's not a stereotypical horror flick,
but an intelligently written, directed, and acted drama with a spooky
atmosphere.  I don't know if the producers intended for it to be this
scary,
but this movie is pretty darn terrifying!

******
17 May 2000
10

A excellent film, brilliant, great, magnific.
Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins are greatest.
The Howard Shore's music are favoulous.
A film realty great.


******
21 April 2000
10

Having read the book, I was prepared for this film but I could hardly
believe that it would stand up to the book. After 6 times it still attracts
me. Anthony Hopkins performance is insuperable, Foster is brilliant and
Demme's direction will be unforgettable.

******
20 April 2000
9

Anthony Hopkin's Dr. Hannibal Lecter, is about as freaky as you could
imagine.  Wonderful acting.
Great suspenseful story
Can't wait for the "Hannibal" movie

******
3 April 2000
10

Silence of the LambsDIRECTION 94%
Great touches all round to create mental images of two, not just one serial
killer.ACTING 97%
Great leads and supporting roles destroy any other serial killer movie
competition in this category.EDITING/SPECIAL EFFECTS 91%
Take a look at those photos and dead body recently found
ukk!PLOT 95%
Complex themes of death, a strange type of romantic impression and
dream-like realities affecting the past and the future.STRONG WORDS AND VIOLENCE ETC 92%
How strong this affects you depends upon how much Lecter gets into your
mind!MUSIC 90%
Haunting and tense.SOUND 92%
Scary and produce an eerie atmosphere into and outside of a top security
prison. HOOKABILITY 91%
When you see Lecter your eyes will be fixed!LASTABILITY 95%
You will want to see the ending if the main characters will
survive?OVERALL 93%
A serial killer crime thriller with quality all round to
boot!


******
25 March 2000
10

When most novels-- the ones worth reading, at least-- are converted into
films, the results are, in most instances, vastly inferior; on rare
occasions, the movie adaptations equal or even surpass the creative impact
of their written forms._The Silence of the Lambs_ is one such film. Though it is quite different
from Thomas Harris' widely revered novel-- and I will refrain from
elaborating upon these differences because everyone should, at some point,
sit down and read Harris' finest work-- the film is no less an artistic
triumph.The strength of _The Silence of the Lambs_ is in the tense interplay
between
Jodie Foster's Clarice Starling and Sir Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal Lechter.
The rapport between their characters is both riveting and bone-chilling in
its intensity, and the thought of lesser actors tackling such scenes is
perhaps as frightening as any of this masterful film's horror. Their
performances are the driving force behind the film.Jonathan Demme's direction is also first-rate. Though the score is
occasionally too obvious and overpowering, his decisions-- from sweeping
camera pans to tightly framed close-ups-- are generally wise, and they give
the film the uncomfortable atmosphere needed to create the dramatic tension
that sustains the viewer's interest through to the movie's unsettling
climactic scenes.Easily one of the best films of the 1990s, a decade characterized by
extravagance, _The Silence of the Lambs_ is sufficiently daring, while
managing a certain restraint within all of its elements-- the
intelligently-composed screenplay, Demme's direction, and the ensemble
acting-- that allows it to transcend to an artistic level far above most
every other film of the past ten years.RATING: 10 out of 10. It's not entirely perfect, but _The Silence of the
Lambs_, with its unrivaled intensity and passion, epitomizes the
psychological thriller genre. A decade from now, it will be considered a
"canonical" film with the likes of _Citizen Kane_ and _To Kill a
Mockingbird_.

******
16 February 2000
10

A movie tried to scare me once. I watched it with some chili beans and a
nice Pepsi."Silence of the Lambs" is one of the true mesmerising movies of the 1990s.
It's also genuinely frightening. How many movies can actually call
themselves genuinely frightening? Not many.Anthony Hopkins is perfect (read: PERFECT) as Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal"
Lecter. As far as I'm concerned, he overshadows anything. The role is
brilliant and scary, made more so by the fact that THE MAN DOES NOT BLINK.
Whew! Wipe the sweat off my brow and close my jaw.What a movie. A double whammy. I'm speechless, even. And I'm NEVER
speechless. Ask anyone.THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS: ***** (out of Five)

******
9 February 2000
10

"The Silence of the Lambs" is one of the best and creepiest thrillers I have
ever seen. Great actors like Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster turn
magnificent award winning performances. The suspense in this film is almost
to intense you will be on the edge of your seat. I highly reccomend this
movie it is a top notch thriller.

******
29 January 2000
10

When I first saw this movie I was scared out of my wits! Everyone involved
knows how to scare the audience, especially Anthony Hopkins, whose
performance is chilling. If you've seen it, get the Criterion Edition,
which
is jam-packed with extra features.

******
25 January 2000
10

I just watched this film the other night for probably the hundreth time and
can say that it's effect has not worn off at all.The fantastic and atmospheric direction by Johnathan Demme coupled with the
brilliant casting of Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster elevate this film to a
level untouched by almost any thriller before or since.This material could have easily slid into unintentional parody with the
wrong director and actors but everything is done perfectly with a logical
and chilling ending that sets up a much deserved sequel. (it's in the works
right now as i speak!)a virtual textbook example of how to take lurid subject matter and turn it
into a brilliant artistic statement while at the same time keeping it level
headed for the mass public.PERFECT!!!!!rating:10

******
11 January 2000
9

This is the most intriguing study into the mind of a psychopath I've ever
seen.  The performances are astounding (how can you go wrong with Hopkins
and Foster?) and deserve Oscar nominations for the next 20 years for this
movie! The only thing that was missing - probably intentionally so - was
insight into how Lecter became Lecter.  I would love to know.  I still
watch
this movie at least once every 6 months or so, just to get captivated all
over again.  Some people can't watch it alone.  I'm not one of
them.

******
30 November 1999
10

Silence of the Lambs is a movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat,
psychologically that is.  It is definitely a must-see and Anthony Hopkins
delivers a magnificent performance.  Jodi Foster is also excellent and
delivers her part with such realism.

******
26 November 1999
10

Has been for many years my favourite movie, and Jodie became my favorite
actress. There is a great movie, thanks to Mr Hopkins and Mrs Foster. They
did great performances, and the Oscar was deserved. All movie deserved the
five major award.
I enjoy the movie every time I see it again. Jonathan Demme did a great
job
directing this thriller, that keeps you interested about it since the
first
moment you hear a conversation in the movie. Is just great!

******
25 November 1999
10

This movie was very scary. I read the book first, so I knew what was going
to happen, but the movie was still an amazing experience for me.The camera work was amazing. That must not be underlooked, but that was most
definitely not the only reason that it was perhaps my favorite movie of all
time.The acting was amazing. Anthony Hopkins was the perfect choice for Hannibal,
and I think that the best performance OF ALL TIME was given by him in this
movie. He also worked perfectly with Jodie Foster, and she worked perfectly
with him. Not even Einstein could have created better chemistry than what
went on between those two. When Clarice was interviewing Hannibal, I started
shivering in fear. And as the movie went on I kept on getting more and more
scared.But the acting would not have been so great were it not for the plot itself.
The plot was scary and thrilling in itself.  And this movie had a good
ending too. Some of the most perfect movies have
an ending that lets you down, but this movie's ending was one of the best
parts in itself. It set you up perfectly for the sequel that is coming out.

******
19 November 1999
10

On my own personal list of greatest films of all time, I rank this one as
the 5th.  Sir Anthony Hopkins, one of the greatest actors in history (and a
relative of mine..I am Welsh and he is my distant uncle) and can play any
role and turn it into an Oscar-worthy performance.  Dr. Hannibal Lecter,
the
second greatest movie villain of all time next to Lord Darth Vader, was so
convincing that he more than deserved the Academy Award.  I am glad that he
will reprise the role again.
Jodie Foster was so good in her role of Clarice Starling that I am glad
that
she won the Academy Award.  She should come back for a
sequel.
More praise should go to Ted Levine.  With the exception of the nude shot,
he was incredible as Jame Gumb, a.k.a. Buffalo Bill. I think it was
interesting how he kept refering to Catherine Martin as `IT' instead of
`SHE' OR `HER'.  Very convincing.  As I said before, a sequel is WAY
overdue.  I have read the book and with the exception of the ending, I
think
that it is very do-able.
A Masterpiece!   Out of 10       11/10!

******
7 November 1999
9

Only one of two movies I have watched in complete silence and in awe. The
leading players give their best performances and have become the epitome of
the characters. I would like to see a Demme, Foster and Hopkins reworking
of
Manhunter.

******
26 October 1999
9

Silence of the Lambs (1991) C-118 min. D: Jonathan Demme. Jodie Foster,
Anthony Hopkins, Scott Glenn, Ted Levine, Anthony Heald. Suspenseful
detective yarn about an FBI trainee whose only way to track down a
notorious
serial killer is to ask for help from another one, the infamous Hannibal
`The Cannibal' Lectar. Pretty good mystery/thriller has some disgusting
subject matter (even for the TV version, which is what I viewed) but hits
home in a bravura finale. RATING: 7 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence
and gore, strong language, adult themes, and disturbing subject
matter.

******
10 October 1999
10

Maybe I got this opinion 'cause I first watched the movie, but Demme's
Hannibal "the Cannibal" Lecter makes you shiver much more than Harris'
Hannibal does. Hopkins' acting, too, is so brilliant, you really believe him
to be this hyper-intelligent, cold-blooded monster.
But even better is Jodie Foster, who shows us a different kind of ambitious,
young career-woman. She's not stonecold and harder than hard as we've seen
so many times. Fosters' Clarice Starling is weak sometimes, and this makes
her real and human.

******
27 September 1999
10

Undoubtedly one of the best films ever made complimented by numerous
exquisite facets,Hopkins performance is unforgettable.His acting talent is
used to what may be its full extent(I can never tell with him)and the evil
psychopath is so well conveyed I almost forget that he is actually bad,I
am
almost endeared to him and found myself cheering him on.Only the scene of
his escape demonstrates the insanity contained within the small unimposing
figure who is capable of such violence and brutality.I simply cannot fault
this film and to those who also share my love for this you can go to the
Roger Ebert website.Why?you might ask,well while Mr Ebert gives a
generally
positive review his criticisms are ridiculous.

******
10 September 1999
10

This movie is probably my favorite thriller of all time. The silence of the
lambs is the only horror / thriller to win an Academy award for best
picture. It also won for best director, best actor for both Jodie Foster and
Anthony Hopkins. Buffalo Bill is murdering and skinny women across the
country. Clarice Starling a student is sent to interview Dr. Hannibal Lector
in hope that they will be able to create a profile for Buffalo Bill. Dr.
Lector is called Hannibal the cannibal you can pretty much guess what he
did. Dr. Lector keeps giving Starling clues in an exchange for answering his
questions about her childhood. Anthony Hopkins performance stuns me every
time it's simply brilliant. Scott Glen performance as the psychopath who
wants to be a transvestite was bravo as well. Jodie Foster received an
Academy award for her excellent performance as well. The scene when Jack is
watching Clarice as she goes through the house is chilling. The story is
strong and compelling with a stunning score. The movie is shocking,
frightening and even disturbing with its subject matter. 10/10 The best
thriller of the 90's.     

******
26 August 1999
10

Brilliant. Cunning. Psychotic. A perfect synopsis. Dr Lecter, the film,
the
whole nine yards. I picked it up for #5 at a boot sale several years ago
having not seen it.
It's one of those films that grips you. I felt at ease with the fact he is
a
criminal and was pleasantly at ease with having to trust him.The camera work, the direction, the script, acting, everything about it is
wonderful and I will continue to watch it over and over.


******
25 August 1999
9

What a great film this was. The Silence of the Lambs is probably my
favourite film of all time. The standard of acting by all of those involved
was of the highest, and that is saying something. I would recommend this
film to anyone. I would also recommend that people read the book as well.
It
is simply the best book ever written. I would give this film 9.5 out of
10.

******
25 August 1999
10

  Excellent.  A true gem.  "The silence of the lambs" is the third and last
movie up to date to have garnered the four major Oscars: Best picture, best
actor (Hopkins), best actress (Foster), and best director (Demme).  The one
thing that might make the fact that this movie won these four Oscars all the
more exceptional is that contrary to  "It happened one night" and "One flew
over the cuckoo's nest" which are a romantic comedy and a heavy drama, "The
silence of the lambs" is a high-scale horror-movie.  FBI agent Clarice Starling (Foster) is assigned to track down a serial
killer who calls himself Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine).  The only problem she
must confront however is that to catch Buffalo Bill, she must consult with
Hannibal "The cannibal" Lecter (Hopkins) who is an ex-psychiatrist renowned
across the country.  Dr. Lecter has a clue lying in his head as to what
Buffalo Bill's true identity is and how to catch him.  However, Lecter will
not cooperate unless Starling lets him in onto some of the details of her
private life.  Incredibly gripping and frightening, "The silence of the lambs" is one of
those rare thrillers we see.  The ending scene is extremely tense and is
probably the best suspense scene I've ever seen.  A masterpiece.

******
1 August 1999
10

  I have to say that The Silence of the Lambs ranks as one of the best
thrillers of the decade.  Anthony Hopkins portrayal of Hannibal Lecter is nothing short of
remarkable.  The first scene where we see him is beautifully done.  His
voice is utterly chilling and he seduces you into liking him, a difficult
task.
  Jodie Foster also gives a great performance as Clarice Starling, sent to
interview Lecter in the hopes that it will lead to the capture of Buffalo
Bill.
  Their four scenes together are nothing short of magnificent.  The tension
that appears is real, and we feel it.  
  
  Jonathan Demme is a director whom I have never really admired.  Now, I can
say that I do, and this movie is a masterpiece of direction.  Especially the
climax.  He also directs the final confrontation scene between Hopkins and
Foster very well.  It plays out a perverse parody of a love scene, and there
is a lot of sexual tension (especially when he strokes her finger at the end
of it).  Simply stated, a great movie experience, and worthy of it's place on the
AFI list.

******
29 July 1999
10

   Anthony Hopkins is the greatest in this movie. His character, Hannibal
Lecter if frightening with his unbelievable intelligence yet his savage
brutality that has caused him to be locked away as a viscious serial killer.   Jody Foster does a great job in this film to as a wet behind the years
but smart FBI agent who is trying to catch a serial killer and befriends the
crazed Lecter to receive any psychological information (he used to be a
psychologist).
   This movie is very scary but is not a horror movie. It is your classic
thriller and you might not have nightmares but it will scare you. Watch this
movie! It's oustanding!

******
25 June 1999
10

I saw it several times now but Anthony Hopkins still gives me goosebumps.
"I
ate his liver with a Chianti"
This is from my point of view the best thiller ever made (yes even better
than Psycho) and maybe it is even the best movie ever made. Hopkins and
Foster are just terrific. I am really looking forward to silence of the
lambs part two.

******
24 June 1999
10

This film is brilliant, there is no other way to describe it, everything
about this film is perfect.  When we all talk about a film that affected
us
the most, this should pop into most people minds.  It is extremely well
crafted, from the acting, to the direction, editing, cinematography and
screenplay.  Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster are both brilliant, they
give
us all a clear example of what good acting is all about, and earned well
deserved academy awards for their efforts.  This film is so gripping, it
draws you in instantly and it holds you there right until the final
credits
end.  All I can say is what a movie!  TSOTL delves into the human psyche,
and questions the way we think, why we act on things the way we do, is
anything incidental?  How can we better judge people so we may have any
idea
to what goes on inside people's minds.  This film is mind boggling.  While
it
is  excessively violent in places, it has to be so the viewer can
visualise
the true horror of the character's actions. Everyone involved with this
film
should be given a medal, what an achievement.

******
12 June 1999
9

All right you guys.  It's simply not appropriate to compare Silence of the
Lambs with its 'prequel' Manhunter (Red Dragon). SOTL is a high level
psychological drama targeted for the big audiences with top actors--with
minimal procedurals.
Manhunter is more of a procedural with attempts at psychology and targeted
at a different (and smaller) audience with a virtually no-name cast.  Each
does its job very well, but its really unfair to compare the 2.  After not
getting to play Hannibal the cannibal in SOTL, I am glad to see Brian Cox
getting other juicy (albeit smaller) roles, usually as the villain, in
other
action/suspense movies.  As far as the novels go, Red Dragon is better
written, but SOTL has a superior (virtually perfect) ending.


******
8 June 1999
10

I am not the world's biggest Jonathan Demme fan. I have to admit however
that The Silence Of The Lambs is a great foray into film-making. Demme's
use
of close-ups are there to put you in the face of the horror that is serial
killing. Hopkins performance is a stand-out one, although I didn't care
for
Jodie Foster's performance much at all. Foster's southern accent sounded
forced and slurry. This film is tight though and at 118 minutes it never
seems to be long or drawn out. There are many scenes in this film you will
never forget and many more that you will try to forget for a lifetime.


******
23 May 1999
10

I don't remember ever to have seen such a masterpiece of modern day film
making.From the first moment I saw the enigmatic Lecter I knew that this
film was destined for greatness.
Can't wait for "Hannibal".

******
15 May 1999
10

Silence of the Lambs is the best movie I have seen, so far. I loved how it
wasn't so much blood-and-guts-flying-across-the-room horror, but more
psychological.
The performances of Hopkins and Foster were so real you forgot it was a
movie you were watching and not real events and they truly deserved the
Oscars they picked up for their roles.
I suggest you also watch Manhunter which is based on the prequel to the
novel Silence of the Lambs, Red Dragon, which has a Dr. Lecktor in it.
There
is also plans for the upcoming sequel to the book, Hannibal, to be made
into
a movie, so watch out for that, I'm sure it will be just as excellent as
Silence of the Lambs was. 

******
14 April 1999
10

This has to be one of my favourite films. The superb acting, particularly
from Anthony Hopkins as the charismatic Dr. Hannibal Lecter, was only the
tip of the iceberg. The story was spectacular too, showing Thomas Harris'
writing skills. After I saw the film, I had to read the book. You must see
this film: I never tire of it! I just can't wait for the next one in 2000,
"The Morbidity of the soul" or "Hannibal" 10/10

******
12 April 1999
10
Amazingly frightening.  I won't go on about the plot, but there is
everything necessary here to make a good movie.  The Climax is thrilling.
The perverse relationship between Clarice Starling (Foster) and Hannibal
Lector (Hopkins) borders on romantic.  The sexual tension was unbelievable
in some of those scenes ( when he strokes her hands through the
bars).See this movie.


******
26 March 1999
10

The only movie that can compare to the tension and suspense of this movie,
I think, is Jaws. The same elecrifying thrill and fear you feel every time
the shark approaches is mirrored by a terrifying monster in this film, one
that also eats people - Dr Hannibal Lector.
The popularity of this film was such that I knew the plot when  I was
ten
in 1991, although I only saw it about a month ago. I will usually never
watch films that are disgusting, and I didn't really want to watch this.
But
rather than being a disgusting horror, it turned out to be a psychological
thriller of the highest order.
The movie is amazing. It presents a gritty, realistic world like that of
a
documentary, with no typical Hollywood cliches whatsoever. That way we
don't know what to expect. The actors are actors first and stars second,
and
the two central performances are simply superb. Hopkins is so effective in
his role, you could easily believe Hannibal Lector really exists. In fact
he
is so good, he won the Best Actor Oscar for a supporting role.Even better is Jodie Foster, who has surely proven herself now to be one
of the best actresses ever. The most convincing performance I have ever
seen. Director Demme skillfully uses angles to make her look small and
isolated in a world of danger and fear.
Better than Psycho. Better than Jaws. Undoubtedly one of the best films
of
all time.

******
25 March 1999
10

I have yet to find a single flaw in the film.  The film is beautifully
precise, with compelling characters, significant plot movement, perfect
pacing, and just the right amount of restraint.  It's not just a great
suspense film, but a great film.  Foster is great as a strong female lead
which works with around some strong supporting males and the extremely
powerful leading male (Hopkins, in a mythical performance).Absolutely a film not to miss.

******
20 March 1999
10

Great job by Foster and Hopkins.  Hannibal's part could have been fleshed
out a little more, though (sorry, couldn't resist that one).  The book
described him in more detail and made him even more reprehensible; the
movie
could have spent five minutes more and done the same.

******
13 March 1999
10

I became a devoted fan of Hopkins and Foster after I saw this movie.  I also
bought my own copy.  It's one of those movies that keeps you on the edge of
the seat, wondering if 'our little Billy must be searching for that next
special someone' in our neighborhood.  Apparently there's a possible sequal
in the making.  Let's hope so.  The cast of this movie must have made quite
an impact.  Watch FREEWAY and notice the multitude of actors with small
parts in both movies.  Enjoy!

******
24 February 1999
9

Silence of the Lambs is one of the best American films I have seen in
ages. It settles comfortably into the genre of "psychological horror" along
with such modern classics as Seven and...The Game I suppose. It is true that
the afformentioned genre has not been overly exploited, and in view of a
collection of films described as having "a questionable degree of merit"
that is probably a good thing.Jodie Foster is excellent as a trainee FBI agent, but her performance is
a little overshadowed by that of Sir Anthony Hopkins in the role of Dr
Hannibal "the Cannibal" Lector. A lot has been said about Hopkins' portrayal
of the cannibalistic serial killer, and as I'm limited for space all that I
can say is that after seeing the movie, Lector seems a more believable
character than Hopkins himself (that's a compliment by the way).In short, an extremely effective movie, and one that has for many
embodied the cinema of the '90s.

******
21 February 1999
9

Probably the most gripping thriller I have seen, with lots of delightful
touches. Jodie Foster gives arguably her best screen performance, and
Anthony Hopkins is brilliant (as nearly always!). The plot is beautifully
worked, with a great climax. But, there is a lot more beneath the surface,
which brings this film from merely a good thriller to a great film. The was
covetousness is dealt with, and particularly the manner in which eyes roam
over Foster throughout, is wonderfully off-set against that of the serial
killer. Enough. If for some reason you've not sen it, for goodness sake do!
It makes my top ten. 

******
17 February 1999
10

I read the book a few months ago. Then I saw the movie. The movie is better
than the book. And it gets better with every viewing.Like Anthony Hopkins, who plays Dr. Hannibal Lecter once said, the Silence
of the Lambs is a fairy tale. It has the qualities of a great epic. It is
the young FBI trainee Clarice Starling's self-reflective quest to defeat a
great evil. Dr. Lecter is the dark angel whom she must consult to learn how
to go about her mission.Everything about this movie is perfect. The score is haunting, the poster is
harrowing, the movie stupefying. Watch it watch it watch it.


******
30 January 1999
10

Very few movies ever made can dig so deeply into the human mind and still
provide entertainment. This is one of them. Anthony Hopkins performs
spectacularly as Hannibal Lecter, a brilliant serial killer and cannibal who
once was a respected psychiatrist, and contrasts extremely well with novice
FBI agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster). A good, realistic plotline
combined with characters who actually seem human (terrifying thought, in the
case of Lecter) help make this movie what it is, a suspenseful, sometimes
darkly humorous insight into the darkest realms of the mind, amplified by
the perpetually dark or dimly-lit setting. 

******
22 January 1999
10

"Silence of the Lambs" is one of those movies a person could watch over and
over again and never get bored.  The mixture of acting, screenplay, and
direction make it one of the jewels of American cinema.


******
19 January 1999
10

We have not seen enough heroines like Clarice Starling in Hollywood.  Can't
wait for her return.  Overall, it is one of the best movies I've ever seen.
Great acting, Foster is excellent.

******
18 January 1999
10

A wonderful thrilling film. I was a bit disappointed
at first because I read the book. The film took out
some of the best parts of the book, but nonetheless,
it is a GREAT watch. I recommend it to everyone. 

******
18 January 1999
10

One of the most brillant film I've ever seen. Hannibal Lecter really can
"touch" us. In the night I've seen The Silence of the Lambs I couldn't
sleep. Just suberb!

******
2 January 1999
10

Simply the best.... classic

******
1 January 1999
10

The Silence of the Lambs is the pinnacle of greatness in film.  It features
not only the best male performance ever but also the best female performance
ever.  Oscars were never more deserved than the two Anthony Hopkins and
Jodie Foster received for this film.  Jonathon Demme's superb direction only
make the excellent story even better.  Even the suspense is wonderful.
Easily my favorite film of all time.

******
25 November 1998
10

LOVE this movie! Have seen it MANY times and still LOVE to watch
it!!

******
14 November 1998
9

This has to be the darkest and most brilliant film I have ever seen! The
scene where Agent Starling is caught with the lights out has brought back my
childish fears of the dark! Hopkins is one of the finest actors of our time.
E-LECTORfying!

******
26 October 1998
10

Silence of the Lambs is a well constructed suspense/thriller taking us to
depths of the human psyche that are repugnant to the Christian soul.  And
while we turn our heads and hide our eyes at grisly demise and naked evil,
at the same time we are intrigued by the motivations and actions contained
therein.  Jodie Foster plays the role of Clarice Starling with a hardened
vulnerability which surfaces in her encounters with Hannibal Lecter
(Anthony Hopkins).  The first time I watched the movie, I was engrossed in
all aspects of it- the disappearance of the senator's daughter, the mystery
of Buffalo Bill, and the terrifying aspect of Hannibal Lecter.  But in
successive viewings, the part that stands out the most is the interaction of
Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins.  It is this interaction that allows this
movie to transcend the genre of suspense/ thriller and defines a class unto
itself.  Lecter uses his finely tuned manipulative instincts to peel away
the layers of Starling revealing the closely guarded motivation for her
entire life's work.  He delves beneath her mask of coolness and self
sufficiency revealing her inner vulnerability.  And somehow, while
revealing the most intimate secrets about herself, she still manages to
deceive Lecter and gain the upper hand- if only for awhile.While this interaction is the core of the movie, there is a plot, and it is
a very good one.  For what I have outlined thus far could easily be a
romance, but the twist is Hannibal Lecter is a serial killer with a very
loose sense of morality and Jodie Foster is an FBI agent whose moral code is
strict and uncompromising.  And while Lecter is peeling layers from Clarice
Starling's walls, he is chilling us with his icy demeanor- describing how he
loves to eat human liver and fava beans- and leading Starling on a merry
hunt for clues to the name of the elusive Buffalo Bill; who has captured
another victim with time ticking away.  In summary, the greatness of Silence
of the Lambs lies in its ability to bring the demons of its heroine's past
and intertwine them around a complex suspense/mystery, and keep the audience
interested the entire time.

******
23 October 1998
9

After watching this movie, one can only imagine Hannibal Lecter waiting
around the corner for them in great anticipation. Yes, this movie has a
creepy theme to it that is usually saved for B-grade horror flicks, however
it works very well in this intelligent and thought-provoking film. Hopkins
performance was one of the ten best I've ever seen. Demme's direction was
almost flawless and kept the viewer feeling disturbed throughout the film
with his use of uncomfortable situations (ie- someone following you in the
dark, being stuck in a well, being locked in a room with no way out). What
struck me most about this film was the glorification of Hannibal which
seemed to portray him as a good guy even while the viewer knows about his
murders, cannibalism and mind-manipulating. I felt good about Hannibal
getting free, which really disturbed me.A must-see and must-have for one's video collection. 9/10
stars.

******
22 October 1998
10

"Silence of the Lambs" is horror at its best.  While it lacks the stupidity
of traditional slasher films, it possesses the intelligence to use the most
adaptable medium for horror--the human mind.
Hannibal Lector is brought to life powerfully by Anthony Hopkins  in the
role that has defined his career.  Hannibal is scary because he is
destructive, manipulative, sadistic and, above all, a cannibal.  The horror
that comes from his character is, despite all his "evil", he is likeable.
Charming in an eerie way, all his evils are projected graphically onto the
screen.  Unlike other horror villains, Dr. Lector is distinctly human.  We
are all the more scared because he is real and believable.  Many people
truly think Hannibal Lector is a real person, a credit to Thomas Harris (for
creating the character) and Anthony Hopkins (for bringing Dr. Lector to
life).  Dr. Lector again breaks the stereotype for modern horror villains
because he actually helps our hero (Clarisse Starling) find the real killer.
It is his words that lead Clarisse to the house of Buffalo Bill.  "How do
we first start to covet?  We covet that which we see everyday."
"Silence of the Lambs" isn't a pleasant film, but it is an unforgettable
movie experience.

******
4 October 1998
10

"Silence of the Lambs" will never be silenced.  It easily ranks among the
best movies of the 90's.  Anthony Hopkins steals the show here, even though
he is not the serial killer at large.  He manages to be menacing yet
charming at the same time, which is often a quality of our most infamous
serial killers.  Jonathan Demme did an excellent job directing this move,
and rightfully received an Oscar reward for best director.  He kept
everything going at just the right pace and allowed enough time for
character study to flavor the film further.  "Silence of the Lambs" is
loaded with memorable scenes; my favorite one is where Jodie Foster has to
feel her way around the dark while the killer (wearing night-vision goggles)
just toys with her for a while.  Since "we covet what we see everyday," try
not to give in to the temptation of seeing "Silence of the Lambs" everyday
as there is no telling what might happen then...

******
4 August 2015
10
"The Silence of the Lambs" has been one of my favorite movies for quite
a while.I actually read the book after I watched it the first time and was
astounded at the differences! But then again, my vocabulary isn't too
advanced and a lot of the story Thomas Harris created was a blur (the
same thing happened after I saw True Grit and read the Charles Portis
novel after wards.. Maybe its just a thing I have with seeing the movie
first). I'm not saying the book wasn't good, but I'm more of a visual
person, so watching the movie a second time was all the more
interesting and just as suspenseful.I swear, Anthony Hopkins is the creepiest human being portraying Thomas
Harris's Hannibal Lecter. He isn't exactly the main character, for that
spot was taken up by Jodie Foster's portrayal of Clarice Starling, but
he fascinates just as well. I was more afraid of Hannibal Lecter than
the actual problem in the film, Buffalo Bill; that's how fantastic he
played his part.After watching this movie about three or four times, I finally decided
to buy it on DVD! My dad and I watch it together whenever we want to,
now.If you haven't already seen this 1990's classic, I suggest you do!

******
18 May 2015
10
"The Silence of the Lambs" is the first movie that won an Academy Award
for Best Picture to be widely considered as a horror film and the only
the second such film to be nominated in the category, with the second
film being "The Exorcist", released in 1973.In the film, a young US FBI trainer named Clarice Starling, seeks the
advice of the imprisoned Dr. Hannibal Lector to apprehend another
serial killer, known only as Buffalo Bill, a.k.a. Jame Gumb, who
murders young girls and takes their skin and uses it for something.The acting is amazing and the cast is all top-notch: Oscar-winner Jodie
Foster plays Clarice Starling and she is amazing. Oscar-winner Anthony
Hopkins did a great job as Hannibal Lecter and boy, is he so amazing in
that part. Ted Levine and Scott Glenn are amazing as well, but the rest
of the cast is amazing as well.This film is the reason why I put Hannibal Lecter on my Top 10 Favorite
Horror Movie Killers list and I think this movie deserved all of the
critical acclaim and praise and those five Academy Awards it was
nominated for.Clarice Starling and Hannibal Lecter appears on the AFI 100 Years:
Heroes and Villains, Starling appears at #6 Hero and Lecter appears at
#1 Villain.The script, music and other production values are all good and amazing
and I don't think a single person can hate this film.THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS gets a 10 out of 10.

******
5 July 2014
10
FBI agent Clarice Starling is assigned to help find a missing woman and
save her from a serial killer who skins his victims. To gain a better insight into the twisted mind of the killer, she
liaises with Hannibal Lecter, who used to be a respected psychiatrist,
but due to hid palate, is now an inmate at a top security facility. FBI agent Jack Crawford believes that Lecter, who is also a very
powerful and clever mind manipulator, has the answers to their
questions and can help locate the killer. However, Clarice must first gain Lecter's confidence before the inmate
will give away any information.......In 1991, this movie changed the way that thrillers and horror movies
would be made for a very long time. For the next ten or so years, you
couldn't move in a cinema for films that hugely relied on this movie,
and its original source material.If it wasn't for this movie,mew wouldn't have Se7en, Kiss The Girls, or
even the Saw franchise.Even though its a blooming scary, the film relies more on the
manipulation of the protagonists, and the wonderful cat and mouse games
played between key characters. There are so many red herrings going on,
that the only genuine relationship in the whole movie is that of
Lecter's and Starling's.And what performances we have from Foster and Hopkins. These are career
defining performances, and yes, they were both prolific artists before
the movie for years, but ask anyone about either two, and I guarantee
they will mention this movie right away.The chemistry between the two is electric, and although they only share
a few scenes, its cinematic gold.The camera-work is cold and stark, and the use of head shots
subliminally breaking the fourth wall, adds to the tension, and almost
makes you feel like you are in the actual narrative.Its a solid movie, gripping you from the bleak opening credits, right
up to one of the best lines in the film.But the biggest surprise is the wonderful trick the film throws at you,
duping you into thinking that the FBI are at the killers house, when
it's just Starling at the door. Its a brilliant twist that would have
shocked many when first seen, and then the lights go off.....All in all, its not just one of the defining movies of the nineties,
its one of the greatest thrillers ever made.It's that brilliant.

******
17 February 2014
10
Words cannot describe how truly great Sir Anthony Hopkins is in this
masterpiece. His Oscar-winning portrayal of Dr. Hannibal Lecter is one
of the best performances of all time, and AFI actually listed him as
the #1 villain in their top 50 heroes and villains list. There has
never been a more creepy, scary, and at the same time, fascinating
character before or since The Silence of the Lambs was released. The
closest I've seen is Heath Ledger's Joker in The Dark Knight.As great as Hopkins is, let's not forget how the great the film is as a
whole. Jodie Foster was outstanding as Agent Starling and she even won
an Oscar for Best Actress in a Leading Role for her efforts. The film
is also beautifully directed by Jonathan Demme, who also won an Oscar.
For those counting, The Silence of the Lambs won five of the biggest
Oscars, the other two being Best Picture and Best Writing/Screenplay
based on the previously published novel of the same title by Thomas
Harris.The Silence of the Lambs is one of the best films of the last 25 years
and it is one of those films that any fan of great films must watch at
least once in his or her life.

******
31 August 2013
10
The whole movie is about an innocent female character that steps into
the world of men and into the world of terror.This movie has the
perfect amount of everything every movie needs but some don't have.They
have the frightening scenes,they have the sad part behind the life of
the strongest bravest character,they have the right amount of suspense
they definitely knew what they were doing.It all ties together the way
it should. This movie keeps you drawn in during the full 118 min.There
is never a moment where you will want to get up to refill your popcorn
bowl or even go to use the bathroom.Every horror movie has those scenes
that get too horrific but with this movie the horror is what makes want
to keep watching.This is definitely the best of the best.I would
definitely recommend this movie to everyone because this is the perfect
movie for anyone any night.

******
29 August 2013
10
The greatest thing about lambs is that something new is discovered each
time you view it. As with all psychological films, it takes multiple
views to absorb the full plot and ingest the actual meaning behind the
film. The dynamic between Clarice and Hannibal is possibly one of the
best acting duos in history, and if you pay attention you can pick up
things between the two of them that you miss during the first viewing.
Each character has layers and layers to them, they are complex and
difficult to understand, which is what makes this movie so incredible.
A director wants his movie to be viewed over and over, and if you can;t
do that with a film its too simple to be watched. Lams executes this
perfectly

******
13 August 2013
10
I used to think that this film was just sick. But now I've watched it,
I can appreciate how thrilling and brilliant this movie is. If it wasn't for Anthony Hopkins performance as Dr. Hannibal Lector I
would have rated this movie 7/10. What a stunning performance, I was
amazed by how the role of the psychopathic Hannibal Lector was filled
perfectly by Anthony and it couldn't have been done ant better. It is a great storyline based on the novel by Thomas Harris, and I
haven't mentioned Jodie Foster's Oscar winning performance as rookie
FBI agent Clarice Starling, but let's face it, Jodie Foster's
performance is good but it was overwhelmed by Anthony's performance.
But still two good Oscar winning performances and good acting from the
rest of the cast especially Ted Levine's role as Jame Gump (Buffalo
Bill). This legendary movie swept the main five Oscar's which were: Best
Picture, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Director and Best Screenplay. The soundtrack of this movie also made the movie what it is. The
soundtrack made it more dramatic and dark. As in many scenes the music
increased the darkness and pure horror of this legendary thriller.Overall the Silence is one of my all time favorite's, deserved it's
five Oscars, amazing acting and of course the best performance I've
ever seen by Anthony Hopkins and deserves to be #23 in the top 250. A
must watch but I must warn you that it is one of the most thrilling
movies ever made.

******
19 July 2013
10
"The Silence of the Lambs" was the Best Picture in 1991. Its basic plot
deals with a young ambitious female FBI cadet, Special Agent Starling,
(Oscar-winner Jodie Foster) who is sent to interview a former
psychiatrist, Dr Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), who has been imprisoned for
being a convicted serial killer and cannibal.Oscar-winner Anthony Hopkins stars as Dr Lecter, A.K.A. 'Hannibal the
Cannibal', in his greatest acting performance of his career. The novice
FBI cadet, Special Agent Starling(Jodie Foster), is instructed by her
Superior, to find out about one of Dr Lecter's former patients, a
serial killer, named 'Buffalo Bill' (Ted Levine).'Buffalo Bill' has been removing large diamond shaped strips of skin
from his female victims after they die in order to sew together a suit
of women's (victim's) skin. 'Buffalo Bill' thinks that he is a
transsexual...and desires to be a woman.The most engaging scenes of "The Silence of the Lambs" are the scenes
between Dr Lecter(Hopkins) and Special Agent Starling (Foster). Hopkins
steals every scene he is in, despite the fact he has only about 17
minutes of film time on screen. Needless to say the film takes many
twists and turns, creating suspense and giving the 'film-goer' complete
satisfaction at the end. 10 out of 10.

******
14 August 2011
10
If there ever was a movie genre that needed constant renovations in
order to maintain its appeal, it's certainly Horror, and at this level,
"The Silence of the Lambs" didn't just reinvent but transcended it.Fear is based on a simple principle : the 'boo' effect. The less we
expect something to happen, the most it scares us. "Psycho", by
featuring a totally demented boy-next-door villain, terrified an
audience used to associate horror with vampires and exotic monsters.
"The Exorcist" pushed the level of realism to a magnificent artistry
while "Jaws" suggested a mysterious presence, keeping it even more
frightening, a device sublimated by the movies "Alien" and "The
Shining". All these movies shared an iconic significance in the
evolution of Thriller and more specifically Horror films and it seemed
like nothing could surprise a mature audience anymore This situation worsened with the consecration of slasher films and
their overused cheap-plotted formulas making uncertain recipes out of
classic ingredients, notably those introduced by the previous
masterpieces : hemoglobin overdose, gruesome over-the-top special
effects and various experimentations that pushed the genre down to
Z-movies in the worst case, and in the best, B-movies with a cult
status. So, a masterpiece built out of a new and fresh material was
begging to be made. And cinematic Gods attributed this mission to
Jonathan Demme with the classic "Silence of the Lambs", the first
Horror film to win the Oscar for Best Picture. Finally."The Silence of the Lambs" is one of the greatest cinematic
achievements of cinema's history. Every single element contributes to
create a disturbing and unique atmosphere, and I use very carefully the
word 'unique'. I highly doubt anyone was reminded of a villain with the
same caliber as Dr. Hannibal -with the chilling rhyming nickname-
Lecter, masterfully personified by Anthony Hopkins. I doubt anyone
remembers a similar movie where a young, vulnerable and
non-Ellen-Ripley looking girl doesn't play the victim, nor the hero's
love interest, but the actual heroine. Clarice Starling, as a FBI
trainee is played by Jodie Foster, in a performance subtly combining
feminine vulnerability and heroic tenacity. And no one would have
expected the film to have a binary structure with a classic
serial-killer's investigation in one hand, and a subplot involving one
of the greatest movie villains of all-time and his interaction with the
heroine, on the other.The script is tightly constructed, patiently leading us to assemble
each piece of the puzzle until the series of interactions between
Clarice and Hannibal approaches a disturbing truth. The relationship
between the two leads is even more fascinating because it deepens their
personalities and allows us to get more and more in their background :
the wounds in Clarice's past, the mystery around Hannibal Lecter, and
the roots of evil that inspired the serial killers' acts. And this is
where the freshness of the film relies on : its capability to put
everything into perspective and invite our perceptions to go beyond the
simple 'good vs. evil' dichotomy. The villain are no sharks, no
monsters, no possessing demons, they are everyday men, like some Norman
Bates with an extra level of savagery and pervert creativity and we try
to understand to better fight them, under the pervert irony that the
investigation requires a psychopathic mind to arrest another one.Talking about psychopath, the way Hannibal is introduced after the
first minutes is impressive and gloomy enough to make us expect the
worst and when we finally see him, standing, well-dressed, clean cut,
the impact is immediate. Demme's meticulous direction introduces
Clarice in a very clever way too, she's basically a girl enduring a lot
of stress and hardship while trying to overcome a physically
handicapping feminine condition in a world of men. There's one scene
where she enters an elevator, surrounded by a group of men whose big
sizes emphasize her tininess. Another moment shows her trying to handle
a group of officers standing in a room, assessing a minimum of
authority. Clarice Starling is endearing and engaging as the heroine
driven by a desire of justice and accomplishment, and the trust or
fondness developed by both the Agent in Charge, Crawford, played by
Scott Glenn, and maybe Hannibal Lecter, himself. After all, the many
close-ups on his face during his interrogations and the suavity of his
voice suggest a disturbing feel of intimacy between him and Clarice.
And as the investigations progresses, the extraordinary portrayal of
the real villain of the film, by an underrated Ted Levine, keeps us
hooked until the final confrontation. If you noticed, I mentioned every element that generally makes a great
movie, writing, acting, directing, the movie was indeed the third, and
last to date, to win the five major Academy Awards, after "It Happened
One Night" and "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest". It had this classic
feeling from the day it was released because it combined so many new
elements that defined the notion of psychological thriller, before it
became a trend. And it's no surprise that the film topped many list
from the American Film Institute, #5 of AFI's 100 Thrills, #6 heroine,
and good ol' Hannibal as number one movie villain, and he wasn't even
the main antagonist in the film, which says as much as his winning the
Oscar for less than 20 minutes on-screen, to find a character with the
same cinematic aura, I guess we would go back to Vito Corleone."The Silence of the Lambs" reinvented the horror genre as the kind of
movie that would have made Alfred Hitchcock proud : a scary villain, a
sympathetic hero, a script respecting our intelligence, top-notch
direction and editing, and for one thing, it didn't even need a twist
ending 

******
25 May 2011
10
The Silence of the Lambs, based on the Thomas Harris book of the same
name, is one of the most disturbing films based on fictional material
to win the Academy Award for Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Actress,
and Best Director. When you consider that films like "My Fair Lady",
"the Sound of Music", "Driving Miss Daisy", "Rain Man", and "Forrest
Gump" have also earned the Best Picture prize, Lambs sort of stands
alone. Best Picture Films which match Lambs on the disturbing meter are
predominantly set in historical situations, such as Platoon, Gandhi,
the Hurt Locker and Schindler's List. Possibly the only other fictional
Best Picture winners which could compete with the horror of Lambs is
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "Unforgiven". But none of these
movies ever dealt with not one but two serial-killer sociopaths in a
suburban-rural setting.Despite the outstanding quality of this horror-suspense film, "Lambs"
is not for the feint of heart. "Lambs" centers around three characters
dealing with intense psychological dysfunction. Each character in turn
not only reacts to their dysfunction in their own style but is in very
different circumstances. Two of the three engage in horrific behavior
of extreme violence, succumbing to the darkest side of human behavior
as a result of their mental illness and dysfunctional pathology. At the
story's beginning, one of them is in an institution for the criminally
insane, having had a history of violent and sadistic behavior. The
second is on the loose, dispatching young women for reasons yet
unknown. The third character deals with her psychological issues by
joining the FBI, and her reason d'etre becomes a mission to stop such
behavior and rescue potential victims at the hands of psychological
killers. If a "story" is about the growth and change of a character, then Lambs'
narrative is really about Clarice Starling, an FBI trainee who is
majoring in the Behavioral Science division which does psychological
profiling of criminals, particularly serial killers. Her first real
task, or test in a sense, is to psychologically profile the serial
killer Hannibal Lecter, nicknamed "the Cannibal", played with such a
believable yet sadistic sensibility by Anthony Hopkins that make
Dracula and Frankenstein's monster seem more like Saturday morning
cartoon villains by comparison. Lecter is possibly one of the most
fascinating and simultaneously repulsive characters in fiction and
film. He is a fusion of an Ivy League liberal arts professor who easily
quotes ancient philosophers and the Monster of Venice, an Italian
serial killer who dispatched victims, usually women, without a shred of
empathy. But Lecter also has a fondness for high culture, displayed by
his drawing of the Duomo in Milan. Italy. We learn Lecter had been a university professor of psychology who made
it a habit of eating human victims. At story's beginning, he resides at
a prison of mentally disturbed criminals where Starling first meets him
in person. Starling and Lecter form a strange yet compelling bond, not
quite true friendship but something more meaningful than mere
acquaintance. Part of the story is the evolution of Starling's and
Lecter's relationship. A very subtle undertone of sexual flirting is
hinted at in some scenes and yet we know that these two worlds could
never permanently mesh.Eventually, Starling begins to solicit the help of Lecter to arrest the
perpetrator of the horrid acts of the second character. At film's
beginning, we learn the FBI is hot on the trail of a strange
woman-killer, nicknamed Buffalo Bill by the press. Buffalo Bill has
dispatched five women, but no one at the agency can figure out his
motive. With Lecter's help, Starling begins to unravel who Buffalo Bill
is from a psychological standpoint as a means of finding out his
identity and where he lives. Part of the narrative involves the
revealing of both Starling and her target Buffalo Bill, although the
most interesting and colorful character, Hannibal Lecter, remains
completely enigmatic. The story then pushes into a new direction when a
young woman from a prominent family is kidnapped and it is believed she
has been abducted by Buffalo Bill. Can Starling extract enough
information from Lecter to save the young woman before Buffalo Bill
dispatches another innocent victim?One of the first elements that strikes you about Lambs is its
foreboding atmosphere with some scenes having a quasi-medieval flavor.
When Starling first visits the corridor inside the mental prison which
houses Lecter, you feel like you're walking into a medieval dungeon.
The stone brick is dirty and damp, and the inmates seem like something
right out of Dante's Inferno (Hell). The same is true for Buffalo
Bill's hideout, a maze of dark corridors filled with strange objects,
like mannequins and costumes. The place where he imprisons his victims
rings of something out of the Spanish Inquisition. Themes of raw
sexuality permeate the entire story, although there is no love affair
between any of the characters. Simultaneously, there are also overtones
of objectifying human beings. Dr Chilton, the doctor in charge of
Lecter at the hospital, boasts of having his sociopath patient, "So
rare to capture one alive. From a research point of view, Lecter is our
most prized asset," as if Lecter is a rare object rather than a person.
Also, the serial killers objectify their victims as a means of
rationalizing their behavior. "The Silence of the Lambs" is one of the best horror-suspense films of
its type with absolutely first-rate acting by the leads and the
supports. And one of the most disturbing. But if you're looking for
escapist innocent fun, Lambs will have you running under the covers, or
at least switching to "My Fair Lady". Lecter and Buffalo Bill are the
stuff nightmares are made of.

******
21 February 2010
9
Only the third film ever in Academy Award history to sweep the top five
awards. Also, the first time a thriller wins a Best Picture Academy
Award. "The Silence of the Lambs" is most famous for Anthony Hopkin's
memorable chilling performance as the clever, charming, cultured, well
mannered serial killer Dr.Hannibal Lecter. Hannibal Lecter's character
is a composite based on several real life serial killers, including Ted
Bundy. Jody Foster gives a powerful, intelligent complementary acting
performance as the FBI agent trainee recruited to help catch another
serial killer, Buffalo Bill, with the help of Lecter.What's most impressive about the film is the pairing of Anthony Hopkins
and Jodie Foster. They both bring intelligence, believability and a
strong minded directness. They play exceptionally well off each other:
Lecter is intelligent, but obviously crazy, while Starling is very
sane, determined and intelligent enough to match wits and will against
the evil, charming, well mannered and clever Lecter.Not having seen the film in several years, with a fresh perspective, it
came across to me as an unusually creepy, strange psychological film.
That's a compliment. We have a rare portrayal of a transvestite serial
killer, Buffalo Bill. The film contains two scenes I've never seen
before, ever, in any film. The first involves Clairice Starling at the
beginning of the film, shortly after she first meets Hannibal Lecter in
the insane asylum dungeon. The second scene is near the end of the film
and involves a very bizarre disguise used by Hannibal Lecter. Hopkins performance in this film, is my all time movie villain
favorite. As a thriller, it works well most of the time, narrative
wise. There are a few factual errors. The film is best when both
Hopkins and Foster are on screen together. Then it's quite a powerful
and gripping psychological drama.

******
20 February 2010
10
"Believe me, you don't want Hannibal Lecter inside your head."  Jack
Crawford.No truer words have been written about the monster, Hannibal Lecter in
what I call my FAVORITE MOVIE OF ALL TIME: The Silence of the Lambs.I used to work for AMC Gateway on 59th Avenue and Bell Road in
Glendale, AZ way back in 1991. I was 16, and one of the perks, was, if
you were able to, watching movies at late night prior to movies being
released the following day. So, I would say this was February 13th
1991. They did this to make sure the film ran correctly, audio,
picture, etc. But, the employees were invited. And it was like a party:
only about 10 or so inhabited their biggest theatre. It was a fantastic
experience with my peers, as was the movie.Jonathan Demme's masterpiece of sound and visuals rests on many
factors: acting, screenplay, sound, mood, surprises, pace, dialogue,
suspense, originality, opening, middle and end, comedy, character
development, believability, music, score, editing and literal bite.
Honestly, I could write an entire hardback on all of these aspects and
still have enough for a follow-up publication. In short, this movie
worked on all angles. No other movie have I ever seen, in the 1000's I
have seen, hit the nail on the head on every single right move on how a
movie is supposed to be made upon.In what most people don't know (but it has become more common knowledge
in recent years) is the follow-up/sequel to 1986's Manhunter, The
Silence of the Lambs begins with Clarice Starling (Foster,) a
definitive over-achiever FBI trainee. Immediately into the film, she's
summoned by her mentor/soon-to-be boss (she hopes,) Crawford (Glenn) to
merely interview the imprisoned "Hannibal the Cannibal" (Hopkins.) She
suspects it's concerning on-the-loose serial killer "Buffalo Bill" but
takes the assignment anyways.Upon meeting, he doesn't just call her out; he sniffs her previous
lotion and dissects her innermost fears. Undeterred, the trainee
follows the leads Hannibal presents, while previously bad memories
resurface and the status of a Senator's Daughter's life is at stake
while in the hands of Buffalo Bill. Frankly, she's juggling a lot.All the while, Crawford's actually (and surprisingly to him) impressed
and Hannibal continues to taunt  whether to teach, learn, relieve
boredom or use Starling, all for his own amusement. Despite his
previous free existence's knowledge, before being caught as a serial
cannibal/murderer, he's giving her all she needs to "advance," or, in
turn, catch the killer, Jame "Buffalo Bill" Gumb.The movie is only the third (at the time) in history to "Sweep" the
Oscars, meaning: it took all five top awards: Picture, Director, Actor,
Actress and (adapted) Screenplay. (For the record, I've read all the
Hannibal Lecter books by Thomas Harris (all but Hannibal Rising) and
I'm definitely in agreeance with that last one. No one could've
translated the mood, theme or scene-by-scene as well as screenplay
writer Ted Tally did.) Despite the 5 Oscars it did win, it deserved
more.Score! Or, the musical background music was amazing and in my top list
of all time best scores. Creepy, moody and the perfect sound to match
the theme/atmosphere of the film. The soundtrack, or music tracks, such
as American Girl by Tom Petty and especially Goodbye Horses by Q.
Lazzarus were both not only excellent choices for the film (and scenes)
but, personally, they shot to my "best of" movie music lists. Also, it
should've won for editing. This movie was beautifully cut and carefully
spliced together. In addition, another award for cinematography was
justified, as the movie's photography was eerie, colorful  when called
for and truly put you in the character's shoes.You must see this movie. Everything works. It is gory at times, really
gory. And I wouldn't like a movie if that's all they gave me. It must
contain a story, character depth/growth and true to the story acting.
Obviously, I'm going to say this does, and I'd be right.And finally it truly invented my number one favorite villain, Dr.
Hannibal Lecter. Sure, Brian Cox already played him in Manhunter and as
good as Cox is as an actor, no one could touch Hopkins powerful
performance. Apparently he did a lot of the stances, movements,
creation of the monster all by himself and it paid off. Thanks to Demme
for allowing him to create such an icon. He was scary, smart, deadly
and had charisma all in a single breath on screen. This kind of acting
job comes but once, generally, to any great actor.Need more evidence that Hopkins did a role of a lifetime? His screen
presence was so powerful, he even tricked the audience into thinking he
appeared all throughout the film, yet was only shown for under 25
minutes, or less than a fourth of the film. Not the shortest timeframe
for an actor to win Best Actor over Best Supporting Actor, but his
impact not only impressed the Academy Award voters and audience, but
you will truly feel his presence even when he's not on film.This is largely due to the fact on how great Jodie Foster was  another
role of a lifetime for her. She carried Lecter's spirit with her when
she left his asylum, and on screen, that's not easy. In addition, she
was vulnerable and strong, smart and slow, determined and deterred.all
of these at the same time. As much as everyone, including myself,
focused on how great Hopkins was, she deserves equal treatment on how
masterfully she played her part."I've no plans to call on you, Clarice. The world is more interesting
with you in it."  Dr. Hannibal Lecter.Actually, he's the one that made our world a lot more interesting.

******
20 February 2010
10
For me Silence of the Lambs is the all time scariest movie, because its
realistic. I'm more afraid of a sadistic serial killer than a monster
that doesn't exist. The whole movie is eerie, especially the dialog.
This movie is so well written and the scene when Clarice Starling first
meets Hannibal there was no scary music or suspenseful build up to a
fright, but i was still scared. The types of things Lecter talks about,
eating people, murder, dismemberment, he doesn't even flinch at it. I
think this movie has one of the greatest scripts ever, one of the
greatest characters ever, one of the greatest plots ever and the all
time greatest title ever, if you don't understand why its called "The
Silence of the Lambs" I won't explain but if you watch the scene where
Clarice talks with Hannibal in his new cell they explain it subtly.Through out the whole movie I was really confused about what to think
about Hannibal, I wanted to hate him because he is a murderer that eats
his victims, but I always wanted the best for him... strangely. I
really wanted him to escape from captivity and on some weird level I
felt like Lecter and Clarice were friends. At the same time though, I
found him extremely frightening. I guess thats what makes him such a
bad ass character. The other antagonist in the film was a serial killer
called Buffalo Bill who is murdering girls and skinning them. I found
this character unbelievably scary because of his mystery. Some
directors try and make the villains scarier by giving them more screen
time to see what horrible things they are capable. I think when a
character is seen more through out a film, a sense of familiarity is
formed with the character. Demme made it so you didn't see much of
Buffalo Bill, thus more mysterious and scary. Any scenes with him in it
are extremely disturbing, like the infamous "Put the Lotion on the
Skin" scene. The whole plot is compelling and it's very rare for a film to make you
feel like the main character was always in trouble. The way the whole
mystery is unraveled is clever and well put together. If you are more
into a cheap scare film with jumps and sh*t your pants moments I would
suggest not watching this movie but if your into realistic horror and
psychedelic thrillers The Silence of the Lambs is well worth watching.
A nearly perfect film.

******
7 February 2010
10
"The Silence of The Lambs", simply one of the greatest films ever made.
Swept all five major academy awards, only ever done twice before (One
Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, It Happened That Night).It centres on a young FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) who
becomes increasingly obsessed with solving the the murders of a
deranged killer known only as "Buffalo Bill" thanks to hid trademark of
skinning his victims. Starling is mentored by the brilliant intelligent
yet atrociously psychopathic Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lector.The two protagonists have a number of exchanges throughout the film
which unyielded dark and unsettling personal disturbances that Starling
experienced in the past where she witnessed the slaughtering of
innocent spring lambs juxtaposed with their terrifying screams. This is
an extremely powerful image and connotation in the film as Starling
believes that capturing "Buffalo Bill" will be silencing the lambs and
ultimately silencing the soul-shattering experiences of her orphaned
childhood.There are a variety of effective techniques employed by director
Jonathan Demme such as extreme close-ups of Dr. Lector to illuminate
the madness in his eyes and the unsettling rhythm of his breathing.
These are few of the elements that contribute in Anthony Hopkins
delivering the performance of his career as Lector.The first time Starling visits Lector in his cell is outstandingly
effective. Just by the camera gliding slowly past the other
institutionalised psycho's, it builds slowly up the true madman, Lecot.
He stands still in the centre of his cell, staring at Starling.
Spine-chilling and brilliant. One of the most effective techniques I
have ever noticed in a film.The film does have its gory moments, which is fine considering that it
deals heavily with serial killers and cannibals so it is nothing that
exceeds expectations.But it's the performances that make this film simply incredible.
Hopkins is extraordinarily creepy as Hannibal Lector where as Jodie
Foster portrays such vulnerable courage, such fear and determination.
Both were well deserved of their Oscars as was the film and Demme for
his Best Director Award.The film's ending is exciting and well wrapped-up which is always a
positive in any film and compliments the rest of the film beautifully
as every scene comes dripping with intensity, drama and wondrous camera
work.This a genuine cinematic accomplishment that has spawned sequels and
prequels that are respectable in their own right but will never match
up to the brilliance of Hopkins, Foster and co.10/10 True masterpiece!

******
23 January 2010
10
Clarice Starling is a naive, country, raw FBI recruit who enlists the
help of a convicted, confined serial killer mastermind, Hannibal Lector
to solve a string of homicides. Sounds like some CSI type scenario
doesn't it,or some movie of the week on the scifi channel. This movie
is far, far from ordinary, it is if fact, totally flawless. From the
understated opening Title, to the mesmerizing, haunting soundtrack this
movie is a living, breathing entity that has a heartbeat and will live
in your inner soul for the rest of your days. All parts of this movie
are perfectly executed by phenomenal performances by all involved in
this absolute masterpiece. Jody Foster and Anthony Hopkins, especially
give this movie its heartbeat with incredible performances. This is my
personal #1 of all time !!!

******
25 May 2009
10
I have seen almost all the major titles in IMDb top 100 but this one
stands out on its 17 minutes camera time. All the fans must know what
that means, Dr Lecter blows your psyche away with those close face
camera shots (superb cinematography, best I have seen), penetrating
eyes, unflinching wilfuly crafted dialogs and layer by layer account of
psycho analysis of a crime and criminal.I watched this movie last night only and I wasn't able to sleep
properly, the intense sequences and the confrontations between lecter
and clarice were so dramatic and real, they totally grips your psyche
and pulls it deeper and deeper inside the mind of a serial criminal
slowly making you believe the thin line dilemma between how criminal a
crime could be and the other side of the delusion.Silence of the lambs is mainly about 3 characters, Clarice, Lecter and
Bill. Clarice (Foster) is a young FBI agent sent as a curve ball after
failed attempts to grill Dr Lecter (Hopkins, hail hopkins, generation
after generation will praise thy performance as the greatest screen
presence and portrayal of a psychotic cannibal), the motive for which
changes gradually in getting Lecter to catch a dreaded serial
psychopath killer, lady skinner, Buffalo bill. As the movie progresses,
you feel the synchronicity between Clarice and Lecter so amazing, their
eyes doing the communication and you reading between the intervention.Especially the escape from prison scene of Dr lecter and initial
confrontation of Clarice with Dr Lecter when you get the justification
for the title is awesome and mind boggling cinema at its best.My personal favorite: Lecter kills the policemen and then looks up with
light focused on his face and his face covered with blood while he
tuning his finger to symphony with closed eyes in peace.Kudos Hopkins! 10/10

******
5 October 2008
9
What in the world could you say about this film that hasn't already
been mentioned? With 39 awards, and another 27 nominations, it is
certainly a film for the ages.Revisiting it after watching Hannibal Rising was a real treat.To see the performances of Sir Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster in what
is truly the roles of their careers was indescribable.What can you say about directing, writing, sound, and a script that was
just perfect, and held me glued to the screen for two hours.A magnificent thriller. I have seen it multiple times, and I so enjoyed
seeing it again today.

******
17 May 2008
10
This is one of those very rare movies in which every detail meshes.
It's a whole piece. A comparison that comes most readily to mind is
'The Usual Suspects'.From the beautifully evocative orchestral music onwards, you just know
you're about to witness something special. The camera-craft and
lighting are at times quite sublime, the acting entirely believable.
For those with a decent sound-system, one can almost feel the changes
of ambiance. Take, for example, Clarice Starling's first encounter with
Hannibal. A slight echo typical of the prison facility above ground, is
lost as she descends into the catacomb-like dungeon of the most
dangerous inmates. Now there is no resonance at all. Instead we have a
thick, claustrophobic silence that is frighteningly intimate. This is a
nerve-racking aural prelude to their first meeting at the other end of
the chamber. It is wonderfully crafted. And because it serves our
expectations so well, we take it for granted. For this reason, good
quality sound-engineering is often overlooked.And so the movie goes on. Dr Lecter is standing in the middle of his
cell. It's a strange, unnatural posture, as if momentarily paused from
some action. But he just remains, quiet, still, fixedly watching. The exchanges between nervous Clarice and himself are amongst the
classics of cinema. Jodie Foster is ideal with her nervous palpitation,
but still driven by pride and ambition to achieve something, whilst
Anthony Hopkins, playfully enigmatic, intelligent, and with a
barely-restrained madness, sets her a perfect foil.The plot twists are numerous and clever. The discovery slow, slick and
often shocking. The script is arch, witty, but still entirely
believable, and delivered by a cast of actors who never put a foot
wrong.Small town America is depicted as a sad failure. Properties are
neglected. The people appear defeated. The lighting is always dull,
with the colours washed-out. It's grim. The sun never seems to shine.
The music is pensive and thoughtful. A great deal of attention went
into describing emotion by light and sound, and once again we can
easily take it for granted. But someone thought it all out, piece by
piece.Fast forward to Buffalo Bill's lair. We meet the man himself at last.
He is naked, obsessing over his pathological delusion. In the mirror he
conceals his genitalia between his legs as metamorphosis into
femininity. A different music is playing - heavy metal.Clarice has found him out. But he has descended into a sub-basement
hell and she must follow and find him. Groping in absolute darkness
amongst unimaginable ghastly relics of wickedness we see her at last
from Bill's perspective. He has an image intensifier and can observe
her every move. She is desperately afraid but yet more courageous
still. She will not be deterred. In the stifling confinement we hear
her hyper-ventilating with terror and barely able to hold her gun
steady. Then it's over. Bill is disclosed by his own sound and seen in a whirl
of momentary gun-flashes. During the chaos a blind is disturbed and at
last there is sweet daylight flooding in. A Chinese-lantern affair is
twirling gracefully in its glare. The audience collectively begin
breathing again.This movie is a master-class in cinema as an art-form. It is possible
to exhaust one's fund of superlatives in praise. I cannot watch it very
often because I am drained by the sheer emotional experience. When
Hollywood does it right, they really cannot be bettered. Oscars for
best film, best director, best screenplay, and best actors for both
Hopkins and Foster, with two other nominations - never more deserved.As a footnote to an earlier commentator. Apart from the corpses, the
only character in the movie to be seen naked is that of buffalo Bill
himself. And even he spares our sensibilities. At no time does Jodie
Foster expose herself, neither does Anthony Hopkins, nor indeed anyone
else. I begin to wonder if that commentator was watching a different
movie.

******
24 April 2008
10
A intense and suspenseful thriller that never loses your attention. Had
me glued from beginning to finish. This is the best in its genre. If
your looking for a great movie then look no further. Just leave your
computer now and go get it.Everything in this is done to perfection. The acting, the suspense, the
story telling and even its humor.The acting was great. Definitely Anthony Hopkins best performance. He
brings Hannibal Lector to life. Jodie Foster also gives her best
performance. She was very believable as the rookie FBI agent. Great
acting from all involved.Normally when people think of cannibal they think blood and guts. Well
there is blood and gusts but it is nicely balanced out.The villain in this was great. The evil was captured perfectly and the
actor did a great job. If i haven't convinced you to buy this then just rent it and make your
own decision. I highly recommend it.10/10

******
10 April 2005
10
Silence of the lambs is without doubt the best film ever made with the
exception of Hannibal.The film puts you on the edge of your seat all
the way through and the actors are all brilliant (especially Jodie
Foster and Anthony Hopkins).The book is also fantastic so if you
haven't read it then GO BUY IT.And for any women put off because you
think its a man's film because of the guns and violence .Don't think
that,its totally for both. The plot is totally brilliant,young Clarice
starling set in by the FBI to interview a killer.You will be utterly
gripped.It is totally enjoyable and is a great film.Plus if you like it
you can see the others two films that go with it,Red Dragon and
Hannibal.Which are also excellent.

******
29 July 2015
10
A movie highly ranked in most of the movie charts, including IMDb. Was
too scared to watch it, either because it may be too gore or
disappointing. I've had some disappointments after watching some of the
highly ranked movies in the top 250 list. This movie definitely exceeded my expectations, and will be one of the
most fondly remembered movies of all time. The story is tense and
exciting; especially with acting by Anthony Hopkins. His acting of an
intellectual and psychopathic killer is just top-class. Jodie Foster
carries out the role of a young FBI-to-be perfectly.A movie with immaculate acting, with a thrilling and unforgettable
storyline. By chance that you haven't watched this yet, this is a must
and a must to watch.

******
5 October 2008
10
The Silence of the Lambs is the only Horror genre movie to win the Best
Picture Oscar. Both its male and female lead have won the Oscars for
their performances. Sir Anthony Hopkins holds the record for the
shortest on-screen role to get the Lead Oscar award. He hardly spends
16-18 minutes on screen and produces magic. These factoids and the well
deserved high rating on IMDb was what drove me to watch this movie. And
at no point of time, I felt that the movie enjoyed more praise that it
deserved. It is a brilliantly done movie that deserves all the cheers
and applause. Jodie Foster is one my favorite actresses of all times. Her work in
Contact, Flightplan, Anna and the King and other movies was praise
worthy. And her role in Silence of the Lambs is perhaps her best role
ever. She plays an FBI trainee who has been sent by the FBI to try and
talk to Dr. Hannibal Lecter and seek his help in finding a serial
killer. Dr. Hannibal Lecter is a serial killer himself, a brilliant
psychiatrist with extremely intellectual insight into the human mind.
Agent Starling is scared of her interaction with this madman Lecter.
And you are scared of him because she is scared too. One of the very
few actors who can show fear so beautifully on her face. She faces
situations everyday in her life where is ends up being the only female
in a room full of men. This no doubt is a source of discomfort for her
and you can see it all over her face. Dr. Hannibal Lecter is not an average serial killer. He is a brilliant
psychiatrist. His understanding of the human mind and his skill to
dissect your thoughts by observing your facial expressions and
listening to your voice is demonstrated early on in the movie. He is
willing to help Agent Starling catch the serial killer but in return
wants to diagnose her for he in her past he sees a tragic set of events
that have contributed and are still contributing to her life. The game
is on! Lecter gives his insights to Starling in exchange for her honest
and candid information about her childhood. Every tiny aspect of this
interaction is handled so wonderfully. The director Jonathan Demme does not fail in any aspect. He builds the
perfect package. The eventual track down of the serial killer, the
suspense and the overall story is so well done. At no point of time
does he resort in showing something that makes the movie conventional
or unrealistic. The movie grips you with fear and keeps you at the edge
of your seat till the very end of it. The movie is not about the serial
killer and his mind but it is more about Agent Starling and her
peculiar relationship with Dr. Lecter. But that still does not allow
Demme to ignore his development and portrayal. The serial killer is
believable and complex in his own right.This movie is a classic. It is destined to be in the list of great
movies for a very long time to come. And I am sure that should any
actor try to step in the shoes of either of these characters, he or she
would be taking a very big risk indeed. The characters are so strong
that it is hard to imagine any other Agent Starling other than Foster
and any other Dr. Hannibal than Sir Anthony Hopkins. (I'd recommend you
see The Manhunter to see another actor try playing Dr. Hannibal and see
for yourself.)A must watch for all movie fans! Cheers!

******
21 March 2003
10

The film that began the world famous Hannibal Lector character is a very
good one indeed. But I don't think that it lives up to the full quantity of
its hype. The two leads deserved the Oscars they won back in 1991 but I
don't think that the film deserved any more than that.Nonetheless, the quality of acting from these two leads is outstanding. At
28 she was already an accomplished actress so Jodie Foster perfectly
captures the role of hesitantly determined detective Clarice Starling. It's
hard to believe that the Hannibal Lector part was offered to so many other
actors before Anthony Hopkins was rightfully offered the role. He creates
one of the most memorable movie characters of the 20th Century and is
brilliant for the part. It's a shame that the same can't be said about the rest of the
performances. Ted Levine, one of the most overlooked actors in the past 20
years, never receives any conviction in his role, offers us no motive, and
is just plain dull in his part. No background is offered to his character
and is much inferior to Ralph Fiennes character in the recently made
prequel, `Red Dragon'. Scott Glenn soon gave up `the method' after he proved
to be a dud. Apparently, he sat in a room for hours everyday listening to
the sounds of killers torturing their victims, so he could prepare for the
role. Too bad that what we see on screen is something less professional.One thing that the film does succeed in doing is intensifying scenes so as
you don't know what will happen next. It gets gratuitously visceral in some
scenes to try and be humane, but just looks gruesome and unattractive. While
the story is complex and the film ends so as most people will be satisfied,
I didn't see much else of `sheer brilliance' about it.Maybe it's just me or maybe this is a needlessly overrated film. But still,
`The Silence of the Lambs' is a very good horror/thriller that well
outshines its disastrous sequel `Hannibal'. 7.5/10.


******
16 November 2005
10
A brilliant dark thriller. It shows how evil and dark the human mind
can get. Out of all the 5 awards it won Mr.Hopkins deserves it the
most, who better to play an evil psychotic genius then him.When Lector
talks to her at his cell in museum with camera up close to his face
that must be seen in the theater. Some may not reallies that Stariling
is also a innocent pretty sparrow, and that Clarcie Starling is the
same. We see Lecter as the deadly monster, in two scene's's when
Chiltion explains the physical safety measures taken when visiting
Lecter. When Crawford quotes"just do your job Clarcie, and never forget
what he is." We also see Lector walk along his cell at the museum
following Clarcie as she is being haled away, he walks as if he were a
tiger pacing in the cage. The moth was especially nice touch, because
on the movie cover on DVD and VHS the moths head has seven naked women
that create the moth's creepy skull. The women represent "Buffalo
Bills" six victims and Kathren the seventh whom he abducts. When
Starling dream of her trying to save a lamb its like way she is trying
to save Kathren. The movie title is very unique for a dark creepy film.
if you don't have a clue about the film and only heard the title you
would wonder what kind of movie it is. would horror,dark, thriller come
to mind. You might think its take place on a farm, (in some respect
yes) or sweet loving drama? romantic drama? or a comedy? doubtful. Who
would suspect it was creepy movie about a young FBI trainee,a brilliant
and infamous psychopathic serial killer locked away, and a deadly
serial killer on the loose. Be ready, its a thriller about two
brilliant powerful minds , one good one evil, as the good has to match
the evil, to find a human monster on the loose of unspeakable evil.
After you watch it,try to sleep peacefully to THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.

******
1 May 2013
5
First its not a thriller.... because it doesn't thrill but just tells a
simple story... 2nd... plot holes are way too many to ruin the entire
film up...Dr lectarz escape... how can you be so casual with a highly dangerous
criminal.... you go in to give food to him.... and no cameras watching
over.. wow...Finding the house of buffalo bill... well pretty lucky find i would
say... i should be in FBI if it is all to work with luck Killing Him...
MY GOD... with the night goggles on watching her from a distance he
wouldn't kill her... wouldn't even load the gun beforehand... but would
go all the way near her to load the gun so that she can hear it and
shoot him... he is the most stupid killer i have ever seen.and without those 3 plot holes... you wouldn't have the end to the
story... its like getting stuck with the story and then you don't know
how to end it... so you just make luck do all the work and finish of
the job... no clues... no thinking... just pure luck and a stupid
stupid villain...

******
11 March 2016
8
I'm going to rat on myself here. The first time I saw this was in
theater 1991. I actually sneaked in to watch it 1.) because I was too
young for an R rated movie and 2.) because I wanted to see a movie for
free. I had no idea at the time that I was watching what would be
considered a classic film. At that time the entire movie was new and fresh: this genius of a
madman named Hannibal Lechter, this young FBI agent in training named
Clarice Starling and this absolute freak making clothes out of women's
skin dubbed Buffalo Bill. I was enthralled with these characters and
the story. I was in disbelief at the gruesome nature of it yet the
intelligence of it. After watching it again today, fully, for the first
time I have an even greater appreciation for it.

******
7 January 2016
9
I thought it was about time I actually took the time to review, The
Silence of the Lambs. What was already a very interesting and exciting
picture was made even more so once I took the time to do some research
into the story behind it. But first, from viewing the film itself, it
is entirely dependent on the acting abilities of the main roles. Jodie
Foster's great performance is only bettered by that of Anthony Hopkins
in the role that cemented his place in Hollywood soon after he had all
but given up on one. To give the performance that he does, in doing so
creating one of the most memorable characters in cinema history,
despite only sharing the screen with his co-star for no more than four
scenes is without question a remarkable feat. I didn't think much of the opening titles design, taking up most of the
screen and defeating the object of having visuals behind them. And the
film does have a relatively slow start until the two principal
characters meet each other. This is a brave choice for a thriller but
one that works. However, I go back to it - if it wasn't for the acting
and chemistry of Hopkins and Foster then that slow start would have
continued for a very long time. It is some time before any conventional
"action" is to be found. I felt the scene when Lecter disposes of the two policemen/security
guards seemed ridiculous, cheap, macabre, poetic and brilliant all at
once. The low angle victim's POV shot as Lecter bashes him with his own
baton somehow looked majestic but also rather faked at the same time.
But it works. I have never been familiar with the work of Jonathan Demme before this
picture but he makes some incredibly brave choices. The amount of close
up POV shots took a lot of bottle with cast members even doubting him
as he did it. But then when you analyse the psychology behind why he
made those choices and he is immediately forgiven for the impact it
has. Also, the way he chose to cut together the reveal that Clarice
Starling is actually at a different location to Jack Crawford's men in
the culmination of the third act was an editing masterclass. This is
made even more fantastic when in the knowledge that Ted Tally did not
write that to be a twist but they chose to make it so when in post. Budgets being cut halfway through the screenplay being written,
starring roles being turned down and casting nobody's favourite picks
in the end, doubt over the director, the studio facing bankruptcy -
there was so much leading towards this film never happening or flopping
miserably; culminating in the film being made to wait behind Dances
With Wolves for a release which spelled next to no hope at any Academy
Awards recognition. But then the film scoops every major prize at the Oscars. You just
couldn't write it. The only reason this film doesn't have a 10/10 is
that for all its bravery, there are one or two occasions when the shots
don't quite have the desired effect and the opening is a little slow
but, given its based on a novel, there wasn't much that could be done
with that. A genre defining masterpiece.

******
4 November 2015
8
This film defines the genre thriller with one of the most smartly
written scripts and characters portrayed by an wonderful cast. Anthony
Hopkins just add to his already star stunned status as one of the
brilliant and well respected actors of the cinematic business. Jodie
Foster gives her best performance of her career, a role that put her on
the map as an actress to watch out for. Scott Glenn, who just came off
of doing Hunt for Red October gives his best film performance in his
career as well. Ted Levine, says a very memorable line in the film.
Everyone does an excellent job acting. But what also stands out is the
story and smart dialog that keeps you guessing and wanting more. You
feel like you are in the middle of this case with Foster's character
and you sense the danger when the moment of truth prevails. It is a
film about trust, intelligence, and fear within your soul. The
character, Hannibal Lector is considered one of the greatest villains
of all time he too says many memorable lines. Hopkins and Lector would
go on to two more films: Hannibal, and Red Dragon. But Silence of the
Lambs is a superior film one worth watching. Now to grade this.
Characters: A Acting: A+ Music: B Dialog: A+ Story: A+ Effects: A-
Overall: A

******
10 October 2015
8
A decently acted movie, Anthony Hopkins plays a good psychopath. Jodi
Foster's character lacks a bit, the story itself is a well written one.
It is a definite in my Gallery Of Horror of one to watch if you are
looking for a quick horror fix. To be honest, without Hopkins in this
movie, I would of rated it at 4 or 5. He is the only strong character
in this movie. Therefore it gets an 8. I've always said a good horror
is about the story and not the effects. This movie delivers just that.
That's if you can stomach some bad accents and slightly weak acting
from some of the cast. Don't let that detour you, it is still one of
the best psychological thriller/horrors of it's time..a classic.

******
21 September 2015
8
This is a must watch movie for all those psychological genre lovers.
The director through this movie tells us how small clues help reveal
big things. Background score plays a major role in this thriller. The
two lead characters(Clarice starling and Dr.Hannibal lecter)portrayed
by Jodie foster and Sir Anthony Hopkins are felt so real because of
their performance.this is not like all those good vs bad movie but a
combination of good and bad versus the other bad guy "Buffalo bill"
whose victims are women. But Dr.lecter looks more dangerous than
Buffalo bill.There are also some aggressive scenes in this movie but
not that much like other psycho thrillers. the conversation between
starling and lecter is shown very well. This is not a movie that you
should watch with your family.

******
14 December 2014
8
I've seen this film literally dozens of times, but every time I see it,
it still has the same disturbing effect on me. It's a thriller in the
truest sense. I dare even call it something of a horror film. An
eternal classic. Still very scary. As a writer, it inspired some of my
best writing. It made me want to write better, and gave me a better
appreciation of the genre, as well as introducing me to Anthony
Hopkins. I would recommend this film to anyone. Beyond its creepiness,
it is a wonderfully character driven piece, as it brings us into the
world and mind of Jodie Foster's young FBI agent Clarice. We root for
Clarice and are at every turn afraid for her life. What she must endure
is chilling an inhuman, but he desire to see justice done compels her,
quite literally through the depths of hell, a hell lorded over by one
Hannibal the Cannibal.

******
9 December 2014
8
I Have just completed my Intro to Film Class 240 with Professor Merlock
Fall 2014. In his class we watched this film and studied everything
from the reoccurring American Flag, to Clarice's heroism especially as
a female in a primarily male environment. We learned that this film
shows that women are just as capable to carry out the job of what the
world primarily viewed as being a males job. It also describes the
struggle for the female character as she not only tries to save members
of her same sex but also deals with the physical and mental defects and
challenges of her assigned task.this film is a definite must watch and i recommend it for any one who
enjoys suspense and horror movies.

******
9 December 2014
8
I loved this movie and the fact that a woman was the main character.
After watching this film in a college class, FILM 240, we discussed why
the director made some of the decisions that he/she made. We discussed
the recurring image of American flags; I think the director place the
flags in there to create a constant reminder of the fight for freedom
and justice in the United States. Because Buffalo Bill had been
rejected so many times for a sex-change operation, he had desperately
turned to kidnapping and skinning his victims. The fight for equality
and justice is present throughout the entire movie, with Buffalo Bill
wanting a new identity, Jack Crawford wanting take down Buffalo Bill,
Clarice wanting to be treated like one of the guys and catch the
culprit, and Hannibal wanting to get out of prison.

******
23 August 2014
8
The thing with comparing this larger than life serial killer movie, to
like Seven or Rampage, they of course come off way much more realistic.
As for the serial killers, they're way over the top, as in terms of
their characters and how they kill. SOTL is a different kind of serial
killer movie experience, with three mains who deliver top floor
performances, none than more than Hopkins of course as Dr Hannibal
Lector, where he's at his most brilliantly chilling in this pic. When
seeing the end of Red Dragon, it's hard to believe that was just
prefore to the start of Hannibal's presence here, as Hopkins was much
more effective and scary. There are nasty moments in this film, where a
lot of people couldn't get over the fact of it's M 15+ rating which was
very questioning. Some content will indeed disturb people, but that's
one of the movie's intentions, where for some sickies, they're are
addictive pleasures. The movie's a great re watch and will still manage
to disturb and rivet you, if not seeing for years. Truly dedicated,
24/7 Agent Clarice Starling, is played with so much professionalism, no
one can do the role better than Foster, yet too, I really liked the
under appreciated Scott Glenn as Jack Crawford. Glenn is an actor who
always delivers, no matter the role. Honestly I'd have to say, he's
almost on par with Foster. Of course the other role of the other
sickopath, Buffalo Bill is played by great character actor, Levine.
Foster implores Hopkin's genius to help her track down this very bad
boy, a transsexual sewer, who kidnaps and skins his victims, the latest
one is from a high ranking family, and of course, Hoping making a deal,
does the inevitable: he escapes, making way for a following of course.
The movie is really over the top, but it's good, and an addictive watch
with some truly terrifying, scary quality moments, in a fantastic
script, Foster's first visit to Hopkins dungeon cell is one scene, I
never got out of my head. The movie pulls some story tricks I liked
too. The film is a well oiled machine, where also I must praise another
great character, Heald, as the smarmy Lector hating, Dr Chilton, who
has no idea what's in store for him. Great fittingly, unnerving music
scores adds greatly to this unsettling film, a must see, for movie
buffs.

******
12 August 2014
8
Man, that was scary. I hadn't been so scared with a movie in quite a
long time, maybe since Shutter Island. This movie has everything a good
thriller needs, from the long, slow shots that hide more than what they
show, to the creepy music and creepy scenarios. The mysterious
dialogues in which the actors are watching at the camera are
particularly good, and that sense that Hannibal Lecter is actually
talking to you is difficult to forget. And Anthony Hopkins' character
didn't get a well-deserved place in popular culture and Haloween
costumes for nothing: it is by far the best of this movie. From his
amazing way of speaking, to his lines, going through all the security
paraphernalia around him (which undoubtedly help to create the feeling
his quite a dangerous man), everything shouts "You're gonna have
nightmares with this". Not to forget the quite memorable scene of his
escape, one of the highest peaks of the movie.Buffalo Bill's character is also pretty damn good, and every time a
scene involves him you just want the scene to end before anything bad
happens (which, given the character's unstable personality, might
happen at any time). The final persecution scene is heart-stopping, and
is way too long for any viewer's sanity (specially the last tiny bit
with night Vision glasses).And Jodie Foster? Yes, she is not bad. I specially like her West
Virginia accent. And the fact that she is a young woman talking to an
old, crazy, creepy serial killer contributes something to the movie
that could never be present in Red Dragon, for example.

******
26 July 2014
8
This film, I have to say, has definitely given me the chills. Just with
the amount of suspense, mystery, and horror that is put into the
viewer's head is astounding to me.On another note, I had seen this film beforehand with my family and the
movie had just given me the creeps... Later, when I started film
school, my class and I analyzed the film. From composition to editing
choices, this film has always been something to just draw you in. Of
course no one wants to see the gore in some of the crime scenes, who
does? But the thematic techniques of this film are just enough to keep
the viewer from looking away.

******
18 July 2014
7
Anthony Hopkins' portrayal of a sociopath is simply chilling.Having met a real sociopath at a chance encounter, I would give Anthony
Hopkins an 8. Real sociopaths are a lot more dramatic and theatrical. They have an
inflated ego and enjoy being in control. Fear is never an option and
they take delight in manipulation. Anthony's character is everything about a real sociopath minus the
theatrics. Instead he delivers subtlety and leaves the audience wanting
more of this menacing character. Great storyline with great actors. A classic thriller.

******
17 July 2014
7
The extent of my viewing of the horror/scary film genre consists of
Halloween and the Scream Series. I admit it I scare too easily. The
1990 critical and commercial success Silence of the Lambs was never a
film I even considered viewing. However, after sweeping the top
categories at the 1991 Academy Award (Picture, Director, Screenplay,
Actor and Actress) I admit I had to reevaluate. Still an actual viewing
of the film did not occur until after 2000. Yes, I was scared, and
slightly horrified, yet completely captivated by the superior
filmmaking. This film is a tour de force. Anthony Hopkins embodies the
character of Hannibal Lecter to perfection, each syllable spoken with
intent and hidden meanings. A monster, yes, but a brilliant one. In
later films his Hannibal becomes almost a cartoon of the original, but
in the beginning this man could send chills up and down your spine.
Jodie Foster finds the perfect balance of innocence and steel
determination trying to impress her superiors, but also following her
gut instinct. Throughout you can feel her struggle to be accepted is
what motivates her though never spoken it is apparent through her true
skill as an actress. There are no dull moments this film keeps moving,
not letting the viewer become restless and feel ahead of the story.
There are displays of horror, blood, violence and true moments of
tension, but they are not included for shock value, but integral to the
mood the film creates. Every viewing I find something new to be
intrigued by, whether it be a camera angle or a supporting player I
hadn't paid much attention to in the past. This is a true classic.

******
12 July 2014
8
Jonathan Demme is awesome. This movie is an outstanding, suspenseful
thriller. It's a must see for people who love this genre. It's
definitely a cult classic that will be added to my favorites. Jodie Foster as Starling and Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter. They
both plays their parts really well. Lecter as the cannibalistic
psychopath who slowly helps Foster try to find a serial killer who is
skinning his victims and Foster as the FBI agent trying to solve the
case. This film was a great one, it had it's extremely creepy moments,
and left me wanting to watch it all over again. Must see this movie. It's one of those movies that gets even better as
it progresses. 

******
13 February 2014
8
This is an eerily exciting movie about F.B.I. cadet Clarice Starling
(Jodie Foster), who must seek a necessary in confiding with the
incarcerated and manipulative Dr. Hannibal Lector (Anthony Hopkins) to
help her catch a serial killer.While the film lacks the overboard and excessive action of many crime
genre movies, this movie captivates the viewers by delving on Hannibal
Lector's dark yet fascinating background and his methods of operation
as he helps Clarice Starling with her case. The chemistry between the
two are brilliant, as is the cast performances and plot development. Te
intense drama and suspense make this an exciting movie overall.Grade B+

******
15 January 2014
8
This is a pretty good movie that should be in everyone's collection.
Hopkins is at his peak here and really plays a bad guy that you'd like
to hang out with, but maybe take a rain check on the dinner. The
combination of the music, acting and atmosphere makes for a movie that
I myself have watched at least 10 times. The scene where he is locking
the straight jacket almost made me believe he was trapped for good.
Each time I watch it I get the same chills in my spine when he so
coolly slices into that guys brain. it would have been nice if the
movie would have stuck to the book a little more, but I thought that
was not really a major issue.

******
11 November 2013
8
The media has a way of historical revisionism. They glorify past movies
or music as if it was so legendary and sacred. As if it is beyond what
we have today. But 10 or 20 years from now, they will do the same thing
with what we have today.That is what happened with The Silence of the Lambs. It is good, but it
isn't a perfect movie. There were some major plot holes. There were
also parts that would be far better done by today's filming techniques.
A plot hole is how Hannibal Lecter escapes... he was a life sentence
prisoner. Anyone who has ever been to jail or prison knows, there is no escape.
Because you're in a cage within a cage within a cage within a cage
within a cage. and even when you are moving to a new cage, you are foot
cuffed and handcuffed to a chain that is tied to like 15 other
prisoners. All jails and prisons now a days also have drop off points,
where giant cement gates close behind the car, as big as the wailing
wall, before they let you out of the cop car. Jail is big business for
the government.Also, he has some stupid way of escaping from the building that the
cell was in. Totally unbelievable. The ending "dilemma" between the
protagonist and antagonist is very poorly done by today's film
standards. Maybe they didn't have access to great technology and
programs, but still it could have been better done. The camera view was
supposed to be 1st person at one point, but it could have been more
realistic to how a person would be acting in such a situation... far
more.Worth watching, and good. but remember how the media tries to sell it's
past to us.

******
22 September 2013
8
Based on the Thomas Harris novel, film follows the efforts of FBI cadet
Clarice Starling(Jodie Foster, in an Academy Award winning performance)
to catch a serial killer known as Buffalo Bill, who kidnaps and murders
his victims. She contacts incarcerated(and legendary) serial killer
Hannibal Lecter(Anthony Hopkins, in an unforgettable, brilliant Academy
Award winning performance) who taunts Clarice, yet finds himself
impressed by her determination and mysterious background, which he
intends to take full advantage of, leading to a dramatic(and lethal)
escape...Supremely well acted and well crafted horror tale is quite suspenseful
and compelling as well, though is a bit over the top at times, this is
still excellent. Also won Academy Awards for Best Picture and
director(Jonathan Demme).

******
3 December 2012
7
I'm definitely a fan of horror films and films of most types and I
certainly love movies such as the Shining and I thought that this film
would greatly entertain me as Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal is like the
Jack Nicholson as Jack Torrence. I must say the film is definitely very good, but I cannot quite
understand why its regarded as so good. It definitely was a good
mystery film and the acting by Anthony Hopkins was breathtaking and it
pretty much kept the whole movie going nicely. Judie Foster was also
brilliant in this film and these two are the stand outs. However, what I like about this film is that there are two completely
different villains in the film and of course Hannibal stands out! The score by Howard Shore is great, as usual and the cinematography and
special effects are great for a 1991 film. ***SPOILERS*** The scene where Hannibal is served dinner in his cell
and he kills the two officers was absolutely awesome and to me, that
was the moment of the movie. When we see the "dying" police officer
inside the ambulance and he stands up and removes his face and it turns
out to be Hannibal, that was the other standout of the film. The end of the film with Hannibal Lector calling Clarice and saying
that he has an old friend to catch up with, whilst following Dr Chilton
was a great and suspenseful ending to the film as the mainly focused
villain throughout the movie was Buffalo Bill. This ending pretty much
reminded us that Hannibal was also a bad guy. ***END OF SPOILERS***I, however wish that instead of Buffalo Bill being the main villain, it
was Hannibal as the film would've been more entertaining and
suspenseful that way.Overall, I certainly enjoyed the film but cannot understand why this
film is so highly praised and has won 5 Oscars.

******
1 October 2012
8
Overall I think this is a really solid movie. Good direction (except a
few cheap shots), good actors, captivating atmosphere.What I didn't like, mainly, is that it seems the script is kind of
rushed, especially at the end: I felt that the screenplay was unfolding
too fast, resulting in a few easinesses. The movie really could have
used an extra 30 minutes to properly resolve the plot.Another thing, not a real flaw actually, but I thought Lecter's
character was more interesting than Gumb's, supposedly the main target.
You get the feeling that the movie should've centered around Lecter
instead of Gumb.

******
23 September 2012
8
A young FBI cadet must confide in an incarcerated and manipulative
killer to receive his help on catching another serial killer who skins
his victims. In my opinion this film is first in psychology_crime
films.I affected Dr. Hannibal Lecter in film.While I watching
film,gussied Dr. Hannibal Lecter's does. Really, film is perfect.While
I watching film, I didn't bored.In my opinion after watching the film,
nobody don't forget.old a film but everyone can watching every
time.Film had Oscar and prize for scenario.The subject of the film
taken from Thomas Harris's the silence of the lambs book. I think
everyone can this film.

******
9 September 2012
8
everyone should watch this !!!!!! this movie is great if you like scary
or suspenseful movies like myself. Great acting too. I love how weird
it is .. it not to weird for people who sorta like a little thrill
.This movie more like a story line then all gory . The reason why this
movie is only a 8 instead of 10 is because it not the best movie I ever
seen in my whole entire life but it still pretty good. I like how it
has a guy from the psych house , i like that sorta thing . This movie
should not be seen to kids though . It an teenager movie (sixteen and
up) . I like it also because there not any movies really like this , it
is different then other horrors.

******
12 March 2012
8
It has been a quite long time to watch a surprisingly nice and scary
thriller film like this. There is no ghost, no ear-splitting sound, but
horror comes calmly. Power of story and characters. The Silence of the Lambs numbed me with its notorious(?) thrilling
characters and scenes. Now I understand why this movie is so much
famous and loved. It deserves to be called a masterpiece of thriller. I
guess it will be fun to catch some homage for The Silence of the Lambs
in later films. Anthony Hopkins was just Dr. Lecter himself. His existence was very
irresistible. Buffalo Bill was also great, but it is well described in
the film that he is just a cocoon compared to the moth, Dr. Lecter. The
actors play their characters wonderfully. The most shocking thing about
the film is that Anthony Hopkins was in the film only for 15 minutes,
in total. He is brilliant. I hope I would have a chance to watch more films like this in 2012.

******
22 January 2012
9
IMDb Top 250: 26Some films grab you in the first scene. Some grab you later on, and
well some films don't grab you at all. The Silence of the Lambs gets
your attention before you sit don to see it. It grabs you before you
even think about seeing it. That's because the title alone is
interesting: poetic, graceful, yet sinister. So you look it up, and the
premise is more... dangerous... than the title even: An FBI trainee
confides in an incarcerated, cannibalistic murderer to catch another
serial killer who skins women. Wow. That's heavy stuff- now how does it
relate to lambs? And from there you're hooked. Some books don't make
good film material. The Silence of the Lambs made a masterpiece.It's no secret- the film is extraordinary. One of only 3 films to win
all the 'major' Oscars (and personally it's the best of them),
'Silence' practically started the modern dark-crime sub genre. From
Seven to The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, it can all be traced back to
this, and with good reason. Based on excellent source material, which I
finished yesterday and will draw on later, The Silence of the Lambs has
been imitated, parodied and drawn from an impossible amount of times,
but the original still stands on its own.I've already mentioned the exquisite plot, a great mystery, or
thriller, or horror, or however you define it. A huge success of the
film is its atmosphere, a very dark, draining world. This is achieved
through dark colours, small sets, and a haunting score by Howard Shore
that is equally influential, even in his own later work like Seven. It
never takes the credit, but constantly accompanies the action.The Academy will tell you how excellent the characters are. At the
forefront are the two winners, Clarice and Lecter. I believe Clarice to
be arguably the greatest female heroine ever. She is strong and
determined, work-oriented in her male dominated world. But at the same
time she can show vulnerability and fear. It's amazing. I'm glad the
sub-subplot of her mild romance was removed. Hannibal Lecter. There's a
name you won't forget, nor a face you'll forget. It's all been said
before: Anthony Hopkins delivered one of the most legendary
performances in cinema history as the charming and terrifying doctor.
His facial expressions, his voice, his choice of words, even his
posture. A perfect example of quality over quantity. The scenes these
two share are very intense, with closeups. Lots of closeups.There's three other characters worth mentioning: Crawford, Starling's
mentor, is the likable and work focused head of the Buffalo Bill case.
While he suffered the most loss in transfer from book to screen, as
well as the whole plot of his wife being removed, he is still likable,
due to an honest performance. On the other hand, Chilton, the asylum
doctor, is an absolute slimeball. He's a great character, but something
about the portrayal is off. Lastly, and the most important one, Buffalo
Bill, Jame Gumb. He is the single most terrifying, creepiest villain in
fiction. He was scary in the book and in the film he'll make your
stomach churn. The voice and look, and unbelievably freaky, scary,
disturbing dance mark a CRIMINALLY underrated performance by Ted
Levine, who I cannot see in any other role now. He IS Buffalo Bill.The first time I saw the film, one key thing I remember is the patience
the film exhibits. Coarse language is used only when necessary, but
more importantly is how violence and gore is treated. The book wasn't a
gorefest, but there were ample opportunities for shock violence, like
the picture of the nurse or the autopsy room. For the most part, the
visual is held back, until that one sequence, and you'll know what I
mean, when everything is gruesomely put on the table, and into your
mind is burned several terrible images. Great films have patience, and
this is a great film.I usually don't read source material, but I had to read this one. I'm
not used to it, so I don't know how much films usually cut out from
their books. But 'Silence' is very true to the core of the novel. The
screenplay cuts out what you might expect: character development and
history, as well as Bella, Klaus, the media and Southern angles, and
unfortunately (for me) Barney and Bill's story. The film is short, just
under 2 hours, but even with these shortcuts maintains the slow pace of
the book. However the adaptation is very faithful to the book, and
rises above in some places.Some scenes are handled much better with visuals. Lecter's cell is much
better with glass instead of bars and nylon mesh (?), and the key
sequence in Tennessee is spectacular, with the violence. And the
ambulance, let to the imagination in the book, leaves viewers is
absolute terror.Bookended by a great opening and closing, The Silence of the Lambs
marks a milestone in film. It is an influential modern classic with
brain and brawn, amazing performances and characters, and a smart plot.
It's an icon of the genre, and a must see. 9.4/10

******
1 January 2011
10
this is something else. this character Hannibal fits right in there
with Freddy Krueger, Michael myers, and Jason Voorhees. it was a
amazing film. there is a lot of suspense and relationships going on in
here. the plot is a FBI trainee named Clarice is searching for a killer
named buffalo bill. he captured a senators daughter and Clarice goes to
an institution of the criminally insane to see Hannibal lector. he is a
smart man that might have relations with buffalo bill. Hannibal only
gets about 16 minutes of screen time and most of those 16 minutes were
with Clarice. during there interviews Clarice tells lector her past her
dark past that she has kept secret. this may sound strange but i think
that her and Hannibal have some sort of relationship. even though
Hannibal is gay, they have a sort of connection. and i think Clarice
feels secure with lector because Hannibal will listen to her. this is a
different film but it was very good and Anthony Hopkins who played
Hannibal defidently deserved the Oscar he got for that film. so did
Jodie foster for her role as Clarice and she got one as well.
pertaining to this film. see it

******
1 January 2011
9
The Silence of the Lambs is a film directed by Jonathan Demme, adapted
from the Thomas Harris novel of the same name. It currently stands (at
the time of this review) as my favorite film of all time.The plot follows FBI agent in-training Clarice Starling, who is called
in by Jack Crawford to get some inside collective information on the
mind of a murderer by imprisoned, former psychiatrist Hannibal "The
Cannibal" Lecter. Starling uses Hannibal's intellect to help track down
the serial killer dubbed "Buffalo Bill".Starling is ambitious and keen, albeit somewhat naive. Lecter (my
favorite film villain of all time) is intellectual, courteous, and
classy. The more he and Starling interact, the more he learns about
her, and affects her mind, all the while helping her figure out the
identity of Buffalo Bill.Howard Shore delivers a chilling score that blends quite nicely with
the theme and tone of the performances and pacing, similar to his great
score in The Fly (1986).The film offers a brutally realistic aspect of the mindset of
particular murderers. It's frightening, and Anthony Hopkins and Ted
Lavine's performances in particular add a huge weight to the
presentation. My favorite scene in the film is when Starling tells Lecter the story
about the ranch and her lamb, explaining the title of the movie. As the
scene progresses, the camera switches back and forth between the two,
getting closer to Lecter's grim complexion every time it switched back
to him. The scene represents Lecter's slow but deep integration into
Starling's mind as he reads her further as she continues to talk.The climax is exciting and throws you for a complete loop. At the end
of it all you just feel almost out of breath with widened eyes, no
explosion required. Lecter can be antagonizing when he wants to be,
vague, teasing, and observational. He does so much with such a limited
amount of space, and is like a ghost when he escapes his confinement at
last.The Silence of the Lambs is a character study, and a great one at that.

******
30 September 2010
6
In Silence of the Lambs, just like Manhunter's plot (also based on a
Thomas Harris novel) an FBI agent seeks help from the notorious serial
killer Hannibal Lector to capture a psychopathic killer holding a girl
captive.Director Jonathan Demme's 1991 award winner was a smash hit that almost
catapulted Hopkins into typecast hell. Ted Tally screenplay is
excellent and the dialogue superb, however, surprisingly both Jodie
Foster and Anthony Hopkins picked up best actor roles for their
melodramatic performances.Nevertheless, Hopkins commands every scene he's in but really isn't
that creepy. Unexplainably, Ted Levine was not nominated for his role
as Jame 'Buffalo Bill' Gumb, which is simply psychotic and chilling.
Scott Glenn given an understated performance and the supporting cast
are familiar faces which include Anthony Heald as Dr. Frederick Chilton
and Charles Napier. There's walk-ons by Roger Corman, George A. Romero
and singer Chris Isaak! Demme won best picture for this solid thriller, the scenes lighting and
sets are fantastic, including Lectors cell, temporary holding and
Bill's House. The locations are distinct and some credit must go to Tak
Fujimoto's photography for this. The final reel is amazing thanks to
Craig McKay's slick editing coupled with tension of Howard Shore's
score.To Silence's credit it sets the foundation for Hannibal and Red Dragon.
It is indeed a solid crime yarn but is overrated and lacks the
sophistication of it's sequel and prequel.

******
20 August 2010
8
First of all, i couldn't feel the success at the end, The hero manages
to win only because the villain made a mistake. And we don't know who
the victim is you can't feel so sorry for a person you don't know. They
did try to present her a bit that's true.And i think a person's natural reaction in that situation at the end is
to try to remain as silent as possible and listen to every sound.
Instead she was making lots of noise moving around and breathing heavy
being scared out of her mind. Then we see her confident receiving her
medal because she was lucky. Didn't really look like she deserved it.Also, i wasn't really be able to follow how the problem was solved by
her, that might just be my fault, but again it stopped me from savoring
the success at the end.Another thing is that the characters seemed too cold, The female hero
was totally unaproachable, that doesn't make a very nice character to
care about. Hannibal was pretty great but then he just started doing
irrational things and totally ruined himself as a sympathetic
character.And at the end he goes to kill his prison guard. What was that for ? He
didn't seem like a bad character. Just to make an old cannibals joke ?And what the hell was all that sweat on her at the beginning ? it was
cold outside, how much would a girl have to run to get like that ? And
the whole scene was pointless anyway, too unimportant, to unemotional.And other things, good movie overall though.

******
19 December 2008
10
I can cry a river over you...this butterfly effect is superb. -CLOSE
ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND- is impossible because this Catholic film
will satisfy your seeds: set in rural Alabama, the prologue or -OPENING
LOGOS- is the anti-chambers of the C.I.A. -the F.B.I.- a complex system
of -ALTERED STATES-. 50 people get together in a trunk and decide to
end the dispute over who is going to be the driver of the Van: Halen?
They are known as the -CHARLES MASON FAMILY- a group of filmmakers who
are positive in the camera: How is your lasagne at Champs Elys'ee, for
example? People who travel are like that: old money, f-f, this is
accepted in Casablanca: you trade your 17 and with success you will
win. If you do not win (meaning: if you make an error) you loose. The
gain? It depends: if you are a King and bet your kingdom, and you win,
you win securities for your kingdom. If you are an Emperor, and you
win, you win securities for your Empire. If you are a Prince, and you
win, you win securities for your Principality. Now, if you are a
gambler and you only have your tail to bet, you have to win: otherwise,
you will loose your tail. And so forth: the rules are explicit in every
move and every move on its turn is gathered by light: it is the
continental theory.

******
18 December 2008
9
Rarely ever do i praise a movie, the last movie that i saw which i said
i enjoyed was a long time ago , it May of been the 1966 movie Batman,
now that comment may seem out of place in a review for a movie such as
The Silence of The Lambs, but I'll explain the link, both Batman and
The Silence Of the Lambs both do exactly what they should do, they
entertain, they grip you, they are well created, and they are molded
perfectly.The Silence Of The Lamb's strongest points do not lie in the direction,
which is fantastic, they also don't lie in the deceptively obvious yet
clever storyline, they don't even lie in the interesting score or
special effects, no, the strongest aspects of this movie are Hannibal
Lecter, played by Anthony Hopkins, and Clarice Starling , played by
Jodie Foster. In this movie, these two amazing actors grip you, they
pull you in, and they put you in the movie. Jodie Foster's confident
yet fragile character "Clarice" is easily believable and very
convincing, to the point were you feel as if she is a real person
living through this torment, and she certainly deserves the Oscar she
gets in return. And Anthony Hopkins once again stuns and amazes
audiences in his role, and deserves every little part of his Oscar as
well.Now I've always been a great fan of Anthony Hopkins, from his
performance in The Elephant Man to his performance in red Dragon which
uplifted an otherwise fairly weak movie. And this is surely his finest
hour, every single word and action in this movie is sinister,
frightening and chilling, everything a perfect villain should be. His
famous pronunciation of "Clarice" will go down in media history, and
his first appearance in the jail cell will be engraved into the mind of
every person who see's it for ever. His stance, his glare and his
delightfully charming manner all add to this character, and Anthony's
performance. He is so convincing in this role that by the end of the
movie you actually question his existence yourself, and this is also
helped by the brilliantly wrote and presented storyline, which relates
this psychotic character to a real life background and real life
events. Even though Hannibal isn't the main character in this film, or
even the main villain, he certainly steals the show, and the Oscar he
earnt was for the shortest ever award-winning performance in film
history, spending only about 20 minutes on screen in total, but even
this is enough for Anthony Hopkins to portray every aspect of his
character.And as previously mentioned, Jodie Foster's Clarice is also a
fascinating performance. Getting such a small actress to take on such a
big confident role, and to do it convincingly , was a big risk, but it
pays off. Jodie Foster's performance is truly amazing, throughout she
promotes a feeling on un-ease and difficulty, however she also gets you
rooting behind her, as she ventures ever deeper into the mystery. As i
previously said, there are spoilers in the review, and this is one of
them, in one of the final scenes were Clarice is chasing down the
Maniac and has entered his house and is now trapped in the dark is one
of the most 'Edge-of-my-seat' scenes I've ever scene. The brilliant
first person views and wonderful change in mood make this scene
memorable and one of the movie's real strongest moments, almost
creating the traumatized and lost women theme which would go on to back
up other movies. And this movie just kept going, which was a good
thing, because i generally tend to rate a movie not only on film
aspects, but also on how interested it kept me, and this one kept me
going till the end.But as i mentioned, especially in the final scene, the direction of the
movie is classic. The shots are often basic yet stimulating, yet
occasionally the director uses his creativity and goes all out like a
blockbuster should, the camera angles are near perfect and well taken
care of throughout, promoting a sense of being in the film, yet not
actually experiencing the danger's the characters are facing, such as
many of Spielberg's movies.I have to cut this review short due to the word limit, but i can
finally say, go see this movie, it's not Entirely perfect, and that's
why it misses out on a 10, it would earn 5 Stars but it can take a
while to get going and can often confuse even the most intelligent
viewer, which is what stops it from achieving a perfect score, but
other that those, it's just too difficult to criticize this film. It
deserved all of it's awards and should be seen by everyone, now.

******
9 December 2008
8
"The Silence of the Lambs" is a film that needs no introduction. After
all, who isn't familiar with Hannibal Lecter, chosen by the AFI as the
top movie villain of all time? Needless to say, this is a thriller that
touched a chord with movie-goers everywhere and continues to do so
today.One of the film's strong points is the casting. Obviously, Anthony
Hopkins as Lecter was an inspired choice, but the thing that makes it
even more special is the interplay with Jodie Foster as Clarice
Starling. Deservedly, both of their performances resulted in Oscar
wins. The supporting cast is solid too, though unremarkable, except for
Ted Levine as Buffalo Bill.One of the film's other Oscar wins went to Ted Tally for his screenplay
adapted (pretty faithfully) from Thomas Harris' best-selling novel.
It's a compelling story and the female 'hero' makes it unique (or at
least it was unique before countless copycats tried and failed with the
same formula). It also features not one, but two, psychologically
fascinating psychopaths.Director Jonathon Demme won an Oscar for his efforts but I'm not
especially crazy about the film's look. There are indeed a few
memorable images but, generally, the whole visual presentation seems a
little B-movie-ish to me. Howard Shore's score is mostly average as
well though I suppose that it does have its moments.However, what I perceive as a slight deficiency in terms of style is
more than made up for in substance. Forget the scores of imitators that
have followed (including the sequels), this is the real deal.

******
5 December 2008
8
Anthony Hopkins gives the performance of his career in this suspenseful
thriller as the cannibalistic Hannibal Lecter. It is, in a manner of
speaking, Hopkins' film, a character study on his behalf. Any fraction
of second with him on screen is electrifying. His manipulation,
deception and fleeting seconds of violence are all so brutally
portrayed; Hopkins' succeeds in creating what surely must be one of
Cinema's finest villains. Jodie Foster does her 'I'm a bit damaged'
thing and personally, I don't think this is one of her best
performances, perhaps because she is so thoroughly upstaged throughout.
Ted Levine manages to shine as the woman-skinning serial killer known
only as Buffalo Bill. There are sequences where the script verges on
being slightly hammy, but its raw impact and consistent tension always
gets the better of it. What's so brilliant about this film is it's
claustrophobia. The sense that, even from behind bars (or glass, as the
case may be) Lecter manages to have people wrapped around his fingers,
is far more terrifying than if you gave him a knife and fork and stuck
an apple in your mouth. You don't quite get the feeling that Starling
is anywhere close to being a match for Lecter, and perhaps if she had
given him just a bit more of a run for his money, it could have been
slightly more exciting. Then again, perhaps the most numbing thing
about Silence of the Lambs is how easy it is for a monster to have his
way with the world.

******
2 December 2008
10
This movie is a total masterpiece.Anthony Hopkins is perfect for playing Dr Lector. He is paradoxically
politely yet totally insane.It grabs you from the start, and takes you on a disturbing journey and
leaves you feeling speechless.Agent Clarice Starling is an excellent character. She compliments Dr
Lector beautifully.As soon as I saw this I wanted to watch the others in the series.
Completely Brilliant!This is a must see film, and has no contenders for the best
psychological thriller to have ever been made so far!

******
29 October 2008
8
I am a man that enjoys his thrillers. If a director can make a good
thriller that actually goes into the psychosis of a person, then it
will usually hook me. Vertigo and The Game are two examples of these
kinds of films. These films, however, could be considered slow by the
new age of movie goers. Silence of the Lambs really takes over where
Vertigo finishes. They are two very similar movie (yes, I said
similar). You have a man who has gone insane, with a mysterious past
and nothing left to lose. This man manipulates a woman into relaying
many of her secrets, and ultimately allowing him so far into her mind
that he starts to change her. The relationship between Hannibal Lector
and Clarice is very similar to the relationship between Vertigo's two
protagonist( to me anyway). The one big difference between the two is
the violent nature of the plot, and the speed at which Lamb's is
delivered. This is not necessarily a bad thing for either movie. Lamb
just takes a more 90s spin on a classic genre and idea. It is, in my
mind, the best fusion of horror and psychological thrillers that has
been made so far. I would definitely recommend people seeing it, and
even buying it, if they like it of course. And I would also recommend
seeing the sequel Hannibal.

******
11 June 2008
8
For some strange reason, human beings have always enjoyed being afraid.
Scream out loud, hold your partners hand or just cover your eyes and
look through the gaps. This is certainly not a modern trend, it has
been around since the days kids gather around the fire to hear the
eldest of the tribe tell his stories of werewolves or Wendigo. Later,
there was the printing press and books such as Dracula or Frankenstein
appeared. But since the 20th century, humans have found another way to
portrait our darkest corners inside our minds.A reason for this nature is simple. We like to read or watch people in
scary situations, but still knowing that we, as audience are kept safe
from the evils portrayed.If we are to name one character that on the late years has managed to
gain a position on popular culture, it has to be Anthony Hopkins'
Academy Award winning portrayal of Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter.Along with its counterpart, FBI trainee agent, Clarice Starling, played
by Jodie Foster, these two characters are placed as #1 villain and #5
hero of all time by the American Film Institution. Also to add, that
this movie is one of the only three movies to have won the five major
Academy Awards for Best Actor in Leading Role, Best Actress in Leading
Role, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Picture.The movie is directed by Jonathan Demme and is based on the novel of
the same name by Thomas Harrison. It deals mainly on this two
characters, and how the young agent interacts, relates and tries to
understand the once psychiatrist and now psychopath, in order to find
and capture another psychopath by the nickname of "Buffalo Bill".Previously to their encounters, Starling's superiors warn her to beware
of the subject and not to reveal any personal information about her,
information which she needs to share in order to get clues about the
whereabouts and identity of Buffalo Bill. The movie proved to be a success and has given several sequels and
prequels in order to explode the license. To me, the movie's success
and position on almost any list of the best movies, is due not only to
the great performances, but its also achieved by its directing.
Jonathan Demme has created a style of his own, this can be observed on
the changes from third person to first person and back again, and the
many first shots of faces that reveal to us the reactions of the
characters.This is a movie I would like to recommend to anyone interest in cinema,
though it has some scenes not proper to the young audience.

******
7 February 2007
8
The second Lecter movie but the first to feature Anthony Hopkins as Dr
Hannibal Lecter, this is the movie that made him a household name.When I first watched this, I remember having nightmares for days
afterwards. This is a movie with no light moments in it at all,
although a film all about serial killers is not going to be a laugh a
minute in any case.The performances are all excellent. Hard to say which is better , Jodie
Foster or Anthony Hopkins. Hannibal is played with chilling air of
menace by Hopkins, giving the feeling that if the glass between you and
him ever came down, you'd survive about thirty seconds. And yet, as a
previous reviewer stated, he makes Lecter seem somehow human at the
same time. Foster makes the role of Clarice totally her own, and what
her so much more convincing for some reason, was giving her dark hair.
A special mention must also go to Ted Levine as Buffalo Bill, a
complete fruitcake for most of the movie but when Clarice calls to his
house appears almost completely normal. Wouldn't think he was that
bloke from "Monk" would you? Although I have not yet seen Red Dragon,
of the Lecter films I have seen, this is definitely the best.

******
10 December 2006
10
Sience of the Lambs is a gripping and emotional thriller that will be
remembered for many years still to come. It is unforgettable and well
written without any of the customary clichés of horror movies.A serial killer that goes by the name of Buffalo Bill has been killing
women and taking pieces of their skin. Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster)
a rising FBI agent has to capture this man. She consults with Dr.
Hannibal Lector (Anthony Hopkins) (a former serial killer and
psychiatrist currently in jail) to find out who Buffalo Bill is and to
try understand the psychology of his mind.The most memorable moments in this movie are the few scenes between
Clarice and Hannibal. Even though they are separated by a glass wall,
Foster and Hopkins are both mesmerizing in their roles and their
relationship is one of the most interesting aspects of this movie. As
Clarice divulges her deepest secrets about her life to Hannibal he
gives her information on Buffalo Bill.Although their performances are equally good. Hannibal will probably be
the most remembered for the depth in his character and the way he
abruptly changes with ease from a sophisticated, well-spoken
psychiatrist to a deadly man-eater.This is one of only three films that has won the five most coveted
Oscars (best movie, best director, best actor, best actress, best
screenplay) and it is well deserving of them.Silence of the Lambs is a movie that is over 15 years old and still
well remembered by many. It can definitely be considered a classic and
it is one of the most well written horror/thriller films to be found.
Be warned though, this movie has material that will offend many.

******
11 November 2006
9
Well, first of all, I must say, all of the actors did a splendid job.
Simply marvelous. Though, at the end, I felt Hannibal's character was
being, not changed, just removed. Anthony Hopkins seemed to give
Hannibal parts of his own personality. Jodie Foster did an A+ job, both
acting and making himself seem like the country, Virginia girl that
Clarice was. I was enthralled by her accent, sometimes slipping, but
usually crisp and precise.The directing, though a tad overrated, was superb, as an
understatement. The acting of Ted Levine was the most interesting of
them all. His voice and character played along almost seamlessly with
the progression of the film. Never before have I been so convinced that
an actor had, himself, lost his sanity, along with the character he was
playing. The lotion scene made me laugh, while making me want to claw
my eyes out. How he could be so calm, talking "Baby-talk" to his dog,
and at the same time have to listen to a woman screaming for him to let
her go, is beyond my sense of understanding. I commend them all on a
job well, well done.Though, I'm not sure how old you should be when you first watch this, I
was 13 and enjoyed it immensely. I suggest Parental Guidance for all
viewers under 15.By the way, I was amazed at how they didn't *once* use the word
"Silence" throughout the entire film.

******
5 October 2006
9
Do you still hear the lambs screaming Clarice? I first watched this
film eight years ago with my sister and we both couldn't keep our eyes
off the screen. There is always something special about a film that
impulses you to keep watching even when you realise you are watching
some of the scariest, most unbelievable imagery of film history. The
film, for me, ticks every box a film could. The acting is superb and
completely well deserved of the praise the leading roles received. The
mystery and enigma of the directing, especially when we are pelted with
suspense knowing that she is in the notorious Buffalo Bill's house and
the vulnerable Clarice has no idea. The wonderful use of the subjective
shot making you quiver with fear in the eyes of Clarice and then feel
somewhat disturbed in the eyes of the killer. The story unravels
wonderfully and the relationship expressed between Lecter and Starling
is breathtaking. I just wish I was a couple of years older went the
film came out to watch it on the big screen. If I had however, I may
have never been able to sleep again. My only disappointment is that the
great Jodie Foster refused to reprise her role, if she had, Hannible
would have been a good tribute rather than a struggling sequel. My only
small gripe is when Clarice keeps calling Lecter's name over the phone
over and over again right at the end. How long does it take to realise
someone has left the phone? Maybe she was reading him a poem? A great,
well deserved of it's awards, thriller/horror masterpiece.

******
3 October 2006
9
"The Silence of the Lambs" is probably the best thriller in the last 20
years and one of the best ever.Clarice Starling (Jody Foster)is in her last year at the FBI training
academy. Confident in his conditions Senior agent Jack Crawford (Scott
Glenn) assigns her to the case of a young girl's serial killer. What
Crawford expects is Starling to contact brilliant psychiatrist Dr.
Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), imprisoned for life
and to have him help in the case as a profound expert in psychopatic
behaviors and profiles (he is in jail for being a perfect example of
both). From then on and simultaneously with the investigation, the film
deals with the bizarre relationship between the intelligent and
ambitious Starling and the convicted brutal assassin. Somehow both of
them get to respect each other's bright personalities and feel a sick
mutual attraction.A very original story, an excellent script, a flawless atmosphere, an
adequate musical score and a perfect casting are skillfully handled by
director Jonathan Demme to obtain an extraordinary film in its genre.
The final sequences keep the rest of the movie's high level unlike so
many thrillers that have interesting plots but loose impact in the end.Oscars for Hopkins and Foster where awarded for their performances in
this picture and they sure deserve them.Don't waste time with the sequels; once you have been in Paris
postcards will not satisfy you.

******
15 September 2006
10
Oh my God, where to begin. Let me start off by saying that if your
squeamish, DO NOT watch this movie. You might very throw up or pass
out. It is incredibly disturbing visually and emotionally. What really
makes this film so sick is the fact that is seems so real. As your
watching this, you forget your watching a work of fiction. Everything
in this movie just creeps me out and Buffalo Bill is the freakiest
killer ever to grace the screen. Maybe the scariest b/c he, again,
seems so real.Acting-wise...hits the spot. Anthony Hopkins proves once again why he,
in my opinion, is the greatest actor that has ever lived. This was his
golden torch. Jodie Foster was DEAD-ON! Jesus Christ she was so
in-freakin-crebily convincing as the tough but vulnerable woman. Ted
Levine creeped me out....baaaaaad. He played the pshyco almost as well
as Hopkins. And last but not least Scott Glenn. Bravo dude, bravo. You
hit it home, what more can I say? All in all, very few movies has ever really scared me(Halloween, Texas
Chainsaw Massacre) and even fewer have actually made almost throw up(I
Spit on Your Grave). Add Silence of the Lambs to both categories. If
you can take it...watch it.

******
3 September 2006
9
If The Silence of the Lambs had been about Clarice chasing after
Buffalo Bill, the movie would have been boring, and would have gone on
a list filled with every other average thriller ever made. If The
Silence of the Lambs had simply been about Clarice and Hannibal, we
would've been deprived one of the most thrilling sequences ever put to
film. All three of the characters- Clarice, Hannibal, and Buffalo Bill-
are essential to why this movie is so good.The movie works effectively as a thriller in Clarice's chase of Buffalo
Bill, there's no doubt about that. But the added dynamic of Hannibal
probing into Clarice's psyche makes it so much better. When Clarice
(Jodie Foster) is sent to Hannibal Lecter's (Anthony Hopkins) cell to
learn from him and get information on the serial killer Buffalo Bill
(Ted Levine), she is told not to give Dr. Lecter any personal
information. He is a former psychiatrist who ate his victims, and he
can deduce volumes about a person just by looking at her. Clarice, in
an attempt to gain his trust, does give him personal information. I
wouldn't call this a mistake, even though she went against her
supervisor's advice, because she does gain his trust, and in the
process, we learn more about Lecter and Clarice than we could've
otherwise.A plot summary would have you believe that the story of this movie is
Clarice's search for Buffalo Bill through Lecter, but the real story
lies in how Lecter reveals information about Bill to Clarice and what
we learn about the two of them in the process. A lesser movie would
have depended on action and violence to tell this story- and make no
mistake, there is definitely violence in this movie. But the brilliance
of The Silence of the Lambs is that it depends on character to tell its
story.And thank God for Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins being in it to make
those characters. Jodie Foster plays a woman in a man's world, and she
conveys the awkwardness and defiant streak that this brings out in her.
There are moments where she plays the sycophant to get what she needs
from the men around her, and others where she takes charge and we can
hear the self-consciousness in her voice. Hopkins plays a creature that
also happens to be human. He plays Lecter creepily, of course, and he
pulls that aspect off quite well; but there is more to Lecter than just
being creepy- he is also brilliant, and he has desires just like any
other human being. Hopkins makes this noticeable. Ted Levine has less
of a chance to show his chops, but what we do see of him is compelling
and unsettling- he makes a wonderful villain.This is one of my favorite movies, now that I've finally seen it. It
deserves it's place as one of the top movies of all time because it
exceeds all expectations of what it's kind of movie should be, and in
the process it surpasses great movies of more dependable genres.

******
2 September 2006
9
Serial Killer 'Buffalo Bill' (Ted Levine) is on the loose, killing
woman in strange and horrible ways. An FBI-in-training Clarice Starling
(Jodie Foster) is sent by her boss (Scott Glenn) to go interrogate
smart serial killer Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), who lives in a
small dark cell run by the mean Dr. Frederick Chilton (Anthony Heald).
Young Clarice is just starting a sick, scary game of mystery, all held
together by Dr. Lecter.My god. What a masterpiece. The writers of this movie (Thomas Harris
and Ted Tally) must be two of the smartest people on this planet right
now. The twists and turns in this movie are unlike your usual twists
("What? He's really been dead for 10 years?!" or "What? He's really my
other personality?) where something stupid and/or unbelievable happens.
In a strange way, this film is believable and that makes it even
scarier.Oh, yes. Another thing I must note. While this is mainly a "thriller",
it's still a horror. Some people just can't stand that the "lowest form
of cinema" has come up with this. It will scare you silly.Another film that's for almost everyone (Excluding little Billy). It's
no popcorn film, but it's also not an ANTI-popcorn film. It's genius,
really! Enjoy!

******
5 March 2006
9
Number 1 - 1991 Top 20 - 1990s"A census taker once tried to test me...I ate his liver with some fava
beans and a nice chianti..." Dr. Hannibal Lecter Jonathan Demme's tightly constructed and chilling thriller swept all 5
major 1991 Academy Awards (Picture, Director, Actor, Actress,
Screenplay). In a slow year for cinema, The Silence of the Lambs was
the finest film of the year...Adapted from the Thomas Harris' best selling novel, the film explores
the relationship between Agent Starling, a rookie FBI agent and Dr.
Hannibal Lecter, with Starling (Foster), assigned to gather evidence
about the notorious Buffalo Bill, a disturbed transsexual who
eviscerates his female victims, from Hannibal Lecter, a fiendishly
clever doctor who used to eat his patients. The most fascinating aspect of the film, and the reason it has become a
classic, is the unique and compelling relationship between Starling and
Lecter...This is the part of the film that made it a Best Picture Oscar
winner...Other aspects of the film, are routine police thriller
material, but the 10 minutes or so spent between Starling and Lecter
are electrifying...Foster and Hopkins are terrific, and richly deserved
their Oscar statuettes for their performances...A few minor flaws do not diminish the power of Demme's dark and
intoxicating picture...9/10

******
24 February 2006
9
I have seen this movie three or four times and it took me that long to
realize that Mr. Levine is better than good. This portrayal ranks up
there with the greats. If he wasn't so good, the movie wouldn't work
because Sir Anthony is only on screen for 16 minutes. Mr. Levine
creates a character that scares you when he's off-screen as much as
when he's on, which is the mark of a great actor. The music is also
excellent and many of the close ups remind me of Scorcese's "Last
Waltz" framing. Demme gets the way music mirrors life. All of
Hollywood's attempts to film the Harris novels since this one are
Shiite. This is also one of the two great films Jodie Foster made in
the last 15 years. In SOTL's though, Jodie does what she does with an
accent. Ned doesn't bother. What a performance.

******
28 December 2004
9
From the actors to the script to the directing, I loved this movie. I
could not imagine anyone else but Anthony Hopkins playing that part.
Jodie Foster is who I would have picked as being Starling in both, but
Moore did a good job in the next film."Read Marcus Aurelius. Of each thing, ask what is it in itself." This
movie is about corruption. Some fight it off, others are seduced by it.
Yet others, kill and eat those that fall from grace."You know what you look like to me with your good bag and your cheap
shoes?" Like someone that should rent this movie because it will not
disappoint. "It does this whenever it's told."

******
1 December 2004
8
A possible spoiler in the text.I'm more skeptical of this movie than some, although I do give an 8/10.
Its sequel Hannibal reveals what interested Hollywood to begin with; a
story about profoundly disturbed mind(s) that was a vehicle to unload
nasty psycho segments onto a public thats been so desensitized it takes
just that kind of imagery to get a horrified response. There's nothing
new about that, and depending on the content I'm sometimes a willing
victim. I'll give SotL credit for good acting and a good mystery that
needs a solution, but they lost me when Claire most unprofessionally
blunders into Bill's lair with no backup. Its a totally rookie move
made to appear necessary by the fiction of the story. The peculiar
relationship between Lechter and Starling is the most interesting part
of the movie.

******
15 July 2004
9

I have seen this film so many times that I can quote just about any scene in
it. I always have loved Anthony Hopkins, but also Jodie Foster as well. Put
the two of them together and you have a surprise that shouldn't work, but
does. They are as different as night and day. I honestly believe that's why
I prefer this movie to the sequel. For me, not having her in it just took
away 80% of its attitude.I'd recommend this movie even 13 years later to any lover of suspense and
even though the subject matter deals with many things that are less than
appetizing or pleasant, maybe that's what appeals to me about it. It's not
scared to make you believe these things happen. There really are people out
there like Hannibal. He does think that way, and he is that horrid and
beautifully sinister. It's like looking closely at a black widow spider. The
beauty of its nature is so perverse that you almost hate to stop it, but you
know that you must.I have never seen a movie before that made me feel like this one did, and
I'm not easily scared by movies. Maybe "scared" isn't the right term.
Horrified. That's it. So horrified that I watched it about ten more times.
Go figure. We humans are goofy.

******
12 January 2004
8

This is a classic horror movie of the 90's. The acting by Anthony Hopkins
and a young Jodie Foster is great. The story has become a story that almost
every new scary movie steals. If you see it today it might not be the same
as when I saw it for over ten years ago. It is a really good scary film that
includes much of everything. I still think the same has I have always
thought about this film. It is not perfect, I don't think that it is a film
that really touched me and I did not found it as a masterpiece.Maybe the main problem is that you don't get to study the victims enough. I
had also heard so much good films about it that I had too high thoughts
about it. It is really worth watching but not one of the best scary movies
ever. If you ask me I like the classic films that Hitchcock made better. It
has been done many "silence of the lambs"-look alike and also two sequels
which is worth watching too. 8/10 

******
28 December 2003
10

Really, this is one of the best movies I've ever seen.The acting skills are great (oh, I wish I were capable to act like
Anthony
Hopkins!), the locations are beautiful and realistic (even Buffalo Bill's
dungeon looks like it really exists), the music is absolutely stirring
and
the story sticks to that in the novel... Great!

******
27 December 2003
10

I kind of wish all the newer films could be as good as this one in their
respective genres. The acting is excellently convincing. You cringe at
Hopkin's menace no matter how times you've seen it. You can relish in
Foster's terror and dread. There isn't a bad performance anywhere. Even the
dead bodies are more than convincing. You'd swear you could even smell the
death. This is one of those films that you'd swear you saw blood and guts
all over the place - but you really didn't. One's imagination is able to
fill the gaps quite nicely. I love it when a horror film does that. Other
notable films producing the same effect in me are 'The Haunting' (the
original) and 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre' (also the original). This film will
still be good decades from now. An instant classic. A must-see! Not my
favorite film - but pretty darn close.    

******
5 October 2003
8

SPOILERS AHEAD Might be one of the best thrillers ever. Great acting from
all main characters,of course sir Antony Hopkins(his quiet meditation
over
classic tune after killing two policemen is unforgettable), and
especially
Ted Levine, whose portraying of mentally affected person with abnormal
sexuality is keen and believable,and was underestimated in my opinion.
The
whole idea of putting two maniacs in the story, where dim twistedness of
one
of them is hardly a match to a brilliance of another, is refreshing. The
story develops well and has more than a couple of grabbers on the way.
One
of the personal highlights is a cellar scene-music works just
right,getting
tension to almost unbearable level. Escape of Dr.Lecter is also
breathtakingly filmed. Works as a thriller, drama, character
study.Deserves
all its fame.

******
16 September 2003
8

I doubt I have much to say in the way of praise for this magnificent film
that already hasn't been said better by someone else, so I'll keep this
short.  "The Silence of the Lambs" is a film that grips me every time I
watch it--an entrancing, mesmerizing experience that sheds the pulp and
trashiness usually associated with the horror genre, transcending into a
tasteful, terrifying, and wonderfully-acted masterwork.  Jonathan Demme, who
started his career making pulpy exploitation, exhibits maturity and
confident directoral skill.  It goes without saying that Anthony Hopkins'
portrayal of Hannibal Lecter is one of the most intelligent, multilayered
depictions of a psychotic ever committed to celluloid, and Jodie Foster's
twerpy, Southern-fried FBI agent is easily his equal; the understated Ted
Levine is also excellent (and underappreciated) as the Ed Gein-ish serial
killer who skins his victims.  Basically, if you haven't seen this movie,
what are you waiting for?8/10

******
23 March 2003
9

This film keeps on on the edge of your seat. I rate it 9 of 10 'cause
without giving away anything there is just one thing I did not like about
the film. however that 1 thing is minor. You can understand why it is one
of
the few films to win all 4 big oscars for actor, actress director and
picture

******
11 March 2003
9

If you have not seen this film yet then I highly recommend you rent it the
next time you are in the video store! The cast is phenomenal - both Jodie
Foster and Anthony Hopkins were excellent. She, the straight laced FBI
agent, and he, the brilliant but sick Hannibal the Cannibal. What makes
the
film though, is the direction by Johnathan Demme. The way in which the
film
was shot really lends to the spookiness of the story.This is a truly suspenseful and freighting film and not for the faint of
heart. There are some very gruesome scenes - though it is far less gory
than
Hannibal, its sequel. This is an excellent psychological thriller and I
would give it 9/10.

******
6 December 2002
10

When I first saw this movie I didn't like it and thought it was
overrated.
Then I saw it again on video and it has become one of my favorite movies
of
all time. It will make you think and creep you out a little to see how
sick
some people are. It isnt a scary movie. It is more of a suspense film.It
is
definately worth a watch.

******
6 December 2002
8

In some ways, "The Silence of the Lambs" is what pure horror is made of. It
does not have the excessive gore of some slasher movies, but taps into human
fears in a way few films can ever hope to accomplish. Fears such as being
trapped in a dark basement, being stalked by a madman, skinnings, and
rotting corpses; all are incorporated into the narrative in one coherent
package. This is not a cheesy horror movie; it's a dark, gloomy
thriller--somber and eerie to the core, with stark, painful images. There is
almost no humor or sunshine; few horror films actually succeed at being
serious, but this one does, making it one of a select few along with
"Alien," "Hellraiser," and "The Exorcist." Director Jonathan Demme (for whom
this film may be the one he is most associated with) keeps this moving at a
steady pace, with the suspense being nearly unbearable at times. There are
few shock moments, but the taut direction makes them truly effective without
resorting to cheap "splatter movie" tactics. Like other standouts in the
genre, much of the horror is psychological.The real meat of the story comes from the symbiotic relationship between the
protagonist, FBI trainee Clairice Starling, and the imprisoned madman
Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lector. In the role of the latter, Anthony Hopkins
is one of the most memorable psychopaths in film, delivering a performance
that effectively conveys the essence of evil. Like Dracula or "Hellraiser's"
Pinhead, he is not a mindless beast, but an articulate, intelligent
creature, making him much more dangerous. However, the film is really
Starling's story. Screenwriter Ted Tally and star Jodie Foster work to
create a multilayered, complex heroine, struggling to overcome her unhappy
childhood. Lector finds her intriguing, since she may be the only true
intellectual equal he has encountered in many years. She wishes her
assistance in tracking down the serial killer Buffalo Bill; he tests her,
tantalizing her with subtle clues to challenge her emerging intellect (there
is an interesting theme of deception running throughout the film, as every
major character lies to or misleads one another to some degree). Foster's
character directly defies the admittedly sexist portrayals in many other
horror movies.There are solid supporting performances as well; Scott Glenn is rock-solid
as Starling's supervising officer--and a father figure as well. He studied
with a real detective to prepare for his role, and the effort paid off; he
seems more like a real law enforcement officer than an actor. Anthony Heald
plays a pompous asylum head, and he does so well enough. Ted Levine is
really creepy as Buffalo Bill, the type of person you'd only expect to see
in a nightmare. Unlike Lector, he's not especially intelligent or
articulate--he's not even a very good liar, as it turns out--but he is truly
the master of his own little domain. His character is truly nuts, and I
suspect the filmmakers were thinking of Leatherface from "The Texas Chainsaw
Massacre."It's difficult to believe "Silence of the Lambs" one Best Picture; some
reactionary Academy Award members must have seen this as a slasher movie.
Given the subject matter, it's certainly not for the faint-hearted; there
are moments that practically define horror--such as Starling being trapped
in that dungeon-like basement. It's not perfect either; certain details of
how Bill is finally tracked down might be confusing without paying close
attention. Nonetheless, for years to come, it has been regarded as one of
the cornerstones of modern horror, and Hannibal Lector is destined to be a
cult figure for the rest of time.***1/2 (out of ****)Released by Orion Pictures

******
29 November 2002
10

This is by far, one of my favorite films of all time.  This film stands
alone and does not need to have sequels and prequels.  Of course it was
great to hear that 'Hannibal' was going to be an upcoming sequel to the
film, but was not necessary and is completely different in the style of
filmmaking.  Then when we learned of 'Red Dragon', i was worried that the
studios were only in it for the money.  And yes, they were.  Be that as it
may, Silence will always be the first thing to come to mind when we hear
the
names Anthony Hopkins, Jodie Foster and even Hannibal Lecter.  The others
will be forgotten whereas this true originator of the Hannibal Lecter
series
(minus Manhunter) will always be remembered until film reaches its end.  I
strongly recommend this picture, not to say that I don't recommend the
sequels & prequel, it's just that they're all in a class of their
own.

******
24 November 2002
10

This without a doubt is the finest film i have ever seen. The acting in
this
superb psychological thriller in second to none, both Hopkins and Foster
give deservedly oscar winning peformances.Lecter, although brutal and sadistic is at times fairly identifiable in
his
private conversations with Starling 'down in the dungeon'.This film is a cinematic triumph, that can be watched over and over
again.

******
16 November 2002
10

***might contain spoilers***It was not just creepy, but also a very well-made movie too! :)I really liked the acting in this movie and the lighting really sets the
tone. In the beginning of the movie, the atmosphere and music was spooky
enough to keep me watching. Then when I saw Clarice running, I was nearly
fooled into thinking she was running away from something. But instead, it
turned out that she was just jogging...And what a great movie it was! I returned it to the rental store fully
satisfied. :) 

******
16 November 2002
8

Now don't get me wrong, I liked the movie a great deal, but I really can't
understand why this movie has such a high rating and is so high on the IMDB
top 250.  I guess I just can't seem to place what this film has that other
films of the same nature don't have.  But, like I said, don't get me wrong,
I thought this was an excellent film.Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins were fantastic in their respect roles and
really had some great chemistry between their characters.  The supporting
cast members, Anthony Heald, Scott Glenn, Ted Levine, and Frankie Faison
were very good as well.  Also, the directing of Jonathan Demme was
excellent.I thought the story was quite interesting and very well done.  The film is
rarely boring and keeps a good pace throughout the film.  But keep in mind
that this film is rather graphic in certain scenes.  There is an R rating
for a reason.I would definitely recommend this film to anyone that enjoys a good
crime-triller or liked the previous Thomas Harris adaptation, "Manhunter". 
Seeing "Manhunter" is by no means a prerequisite to this film, but it may be
a good idea to see it first and/or the recently released "Red Dragon" (a
re-make of "Manhunter").  If you do get around to seeing this film, I hope
you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris

******
12 November 2002
10
..and thats my choice over several movies that I absolutely
LOVE.  Every
minute of this film is flawless, perfect. I will never forget seeing this
my
senior year of college with my girlfriend at the Palo Alto Square. I had
no
idea what to expect.  Whenever this is on cable I have to watch it, even
though I own the video.  So i have seen it about 37 times

******
5 November 2002
9

This film is in a league of its own and I'm sure I can't add much to the
comments already posted here.  With some clever twists, not to mention
superb acting and direction, this is the greatest thriller ever.  It's easy
to forget that Dr. Lecter isn't even the main villain here since he's just
about the most interesting one in cinema history.  His menacing intellect
and penetrating stare feel as though they're directed at you, and the
claustrophobic unease doesn't stop, even when the movie
does.

******
31 October 2002
10

The influence of Jonathan Denme's masterpiece is still being felt today,
and
it's quite a tale to tell. This Movie cemented Anthony Hopkins's Hannibal
Lector as The most horrifying villain in modern cinema, and basically
remade
the suspends thriller for years to come.  Jodie Foster is amazing as
Clarice
Starling, a F.B.I Trainee that has to track a Serial Killer Named Buffalo
Bill who is skinning woman across the state. In their desperate search to
catch this monster, They turn to Dr Hannibal The Cannibal for help.
Hannibal
is himself a serial killer, and a brilliant one to boot. Always
outsmarting
his doctors and snubbing his nose at authority, Hannibal turns Clarice's
plead for help into a psychological game of cat and mouse that not only
puts
insight in the case at hand but puts insight into Clarice's own fracture
past as well. It all leads to a terrifying conclusion that you will have
to
see to believe. Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster both deserve the Oscars
they won for their performances and the picture itself deserve it as
well.


******
31 October 2002
10

This is easily one of my favorite films of all-time. The acting is
top-notch, the story is well developed, and the mood is chilling and not
unnecessarily gory. If you have not seen this film, GO NOW to the
nearest location that rents or sells videotapes/ DVD's and get it.

******
29 October 2002
10

AWESOME MOVIE!  That is about all I have to say.  It was very
suspenseful,
through the whole movie you could follow the plot, it was impossible to
predict what would be around the next corner, and it just had you yelling
at
the tv (especially when Clarisse was in that sicko's house and he had the
night vision goggles and you could see her struggling and putting her
arms
out in front of her).  I don't have to say much more.  I give this movie
a
10/10.

******
8 October 2002
9

The Silence of the Lambs (1991) D: Jonathan Demme. Jodie Foster, Anthony
Hopkins, Scott Glenn, Ted Levine, Anthony Heald, Frankie Faison, Kasi
Lemmons, Brooke Smith, Paul Lazar, Ron Vawter. One of the scariest films
ever made, the story of rookie FBI agent Clarice Starling (Foster), who
seeks the help of the imprisioned serial killer `Hannibal the Cannibal,' Dr.
Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins), to help catch an active serial killer called
`Buffalo Bill' (Levine). The performances are probably the best ever in a
motion picture, especially by Foster and Hopkins. The final 20 minutes
contain probably the most unbearably tense scenes ever filmed. Followed by
2001's HANNIBAL and 2002's prequel RED DRAGON. RATING: 9 out of 10. Rated R
for graphic violence and torture, grisly images, strong language, and
nudity. 

******
5 October 2002
10

 I just got home from seeing Red Dragon. It was a very good film, but I am
not here to talk about that movie. When I  came home, I decided to watch my
DVD of Silence of the Lambs for the 27th time. It only gets better and
better each time I see it.
  It is, without a doubt, the best movie ever made. Any one who can knock
this film are contrarians. They are the people that want to be different.On
the other hand, they might not know a great movie, when they see
it.

******
4 October 2002
9

Anthony Hopkins, as we all know, is a remarkable actor. A man with
charisma
and intelligence. When Hopkins plays Dr. Hannibal Lecter, the audience
will
quickly refer to his off-screen character, but without the part of him
biting people. Jonathan Demme took us to a spine-chilling journey,
unsolved
mysteries by a potential killer, and an intelligent man who is danger to
everyone around him shows a young woman to the killer.
Both Hopkins and Foster took in roles that ultimately showed them the true
experience of a case, that significantly refers to murders. But this case
really gave nightmares to everyone. This film did not at all show terror
and
gore which made it unbelievably scary. If you think that horror flicks
today
are scary, think again. Classic films to me are more horrifying and they
give me nightmares. So choose carefully with the right horror film you
want
to watch. Enjoy them.

******
28 September 2002
10

I can't count the number of times I've seen this movie but every time I
do,
I'm just as terrified as the last time. Wonderful performances from
Hopkins
and Foster. It's deep, it seems to get to a different level every time.
The
story and plot are wonderful but it's what is suggested more than anything
that really gives life to it. 

******
25 September 2002
10

I am always amused when a reviewer pans a great film and lauds a floater.
For instance, "Silence of the Lambs was sooo boring and over-rated.  A
Nightmare on Elm Street is the best horror film ever!  It's perfect!"
Choice comments such as those just reinforce the opposite point of view.
Silence of the Lambs is an incredible thriller with fine acting, great
suspense, and a score that will conjure up the creeps even when the movie
isn't on the screen.  It provides a strong female lead in a classically
male
role--which in and of itself is attractive and commendable--and
demonstrates
the validity of the choice with a compelling plot and fantastic
craftsmanship.  Great film.  

******
18 September 2002
10

The Silence of the Lambs is the best horror film of all time. My writings
for this is backed by results- the United States Academy Awards. They gave
this film Best Picture,Actor, and Actress (and other awards as well).
Anthony Hopkins deserves 20 Oscars from the Academy for his magnificent
work
for this piece of cinema. I also believe Hopkins could have won for The
Edge
or Meet Joe Black. However, I somewhat disagree with Jodie Foster
receiving
an Oscar for this film because her West Virginian accent wasn't that well
executed by the actress. This film is a true classic and I would highly
recommend that you rent this film if you want to be afraid. Hannibal
Lecter
(Hopkins) is like no other horror movie character that we have seen in
film
before. I found Hannibal's style, words, mentality, and his plain
creepiness
to be one of the best horror characters ever written or acted! I can not
say
enough good things about this Thriller/Horror classic. If you decide to
watch this film for the first time, enjoy! You WILL become afraid of Dr.
Hannibal Lecter!

******
3 September 2002
10

Never forgetting the first time i saw this film, after having just watching
it again, i was reminded of how much of a brilliant film this is. After
reading the book a year ago, i was amazed to see how much was included in
the screenplay, which is a rarity for many adapted films. Although the book
is 500 pages long, writer Ted Tally was able to include every detail to make
it one of the best adapted screenplays ever.In terms of the actual film, it is flawless. The performances are superb all
round with Foster and Hopkins giving their much deserved oscar rounds.
Without a doubt, the most accolades go to the director Jonathan Demme, who
by his skill, has crafted one of the best modern day thrillers along with
David Fincher's Seven. With a surprisingly simple style of direction, his
choice of povs, tracks, freaky closeups and making actors stare down the
camera all accumulate to create an unnerving yet awesome anchor to Harris'
story. Although Demme has been quiet since, He has taught many amatuer
filmmakers and major directors that flashy direction is not appropriate all
the time.Special mention goes to the editor and composer. After watching the escape
sequence and Starling's entrance to Gumb's apartment, editor Craig McKay
cuts tension filled sequences that keep you on the edge of your seat. With
this and along with the expert, furious pacing, this film never wastes one
second of screentime. Howard Shore's subtle and ominous score fits the mood
perfectly and makes an excellent contribution to the film.Being a filmmaker myself, many other people and myself admire the sheer
talent and craftsmanship in this film and with big expectations for Red
Dragon in October, I hope Brett Ratner and co. will do the Thomas Harris
book justice and take notes from this thrilling masterpiece.10/10

******
19 August 2002
10

This is probably THE best crime/horror thriller ever made. I have watched
this movie probably more than any other I've seen. I watch it almost every
time it comes on TV and I've rented it at least 5 times. It IS that good.
The story follows an F.B.I. trainee named Clarice Starling on her search
for
the serial killer named "Buffalo Bill." Along the way, Clarice gets clues
to
the identity of the killer from another killer named Hannibal Lecter. The
plot is perfect, the acting is great, and the movie as a whole is one of
the
best of all time. (Check this website if you don't believe me) With most
films, after repeated viewings, there are some places were the acting
could
have been better or the story slacks off. This movie has very few, if any
of
these places. I like this movie because it's smart and at some points,
even
a little unsettling. Buffalo is like no other killer ever seen in a movie.
(Although some similarities to Leatherface from T.C.M. can be accounted
for,
Bill is a little more caring with his victims. While they're alive
anyway.)
If you like this movie, you'll probably like Hannibal, although
"Silences'"
sequel could have been better.

******
18 August 2002
10

Silance of the lambs is one hell of a movie to be proud of, the acting is
good, the plot is intersting and the intire movie is a fright fest. Some
scenes will be disturbing but when you get into this psychological movie
you
wont leave it. And when you get into Dr Hannibal Lectors mind he wont let
you go!
It is the sort of movie you watch every week with popcorn do kick back and
relax.
Its a great movie!The story is about a trainee F.B.I agent who is sent to discover
information
from convict Hannibal Lecter, a formor and locked up cannibal. Who may
have
information from a certain indivisual free in the world who murders his
victims, "women only" removes parts of there anatimy, skins certain shaped
formula off there bodys and place bug cocoon in there mouths.
???? is what your thinking.
And a certain girl has been kidnapped and hasnt been scene in the
area.
Trainee Straling must find this information before anyone else gets hurt.
But the only thing more frightening than this movie is your own
immagination
that goes whild, why is this happening to those people, what if that
cannibal escapes, and it will scare you, becuase when you watch this Oscor
winning movie it wont let you go!
And trust me it will scare you!9/10

******
16 August 2002
10

"The Silence of the Lambs" is one of the best films of the 1990s. A police
procedural that shapeshifts nightmarishly into gothic horror, it is one of
the most intense, brutal and elegant thrillers of all time.Those who claim the film is boring probably first saw it on video, where
much of its impact is lost due to the tinny sound and the tiny screen. This
film derives its power from the intricate use of sound effects and the
masterful evocation of clausrophobia, which is best appreciated when the
screen is 20 feet across and you are trapped in a theatre. The
cinematography is both grittily realistic and otherworldly, not superising
since the film was shot by "The Sixth Sense"'s Tak Fujimoto. Jonathan Demme,
a comic director, somehow manages to create the only Hitchcockian film that
is truly worthy of the name. The wonderfully paced final act, in which we
assume the SWAT team are on the way, but... is one of the greatest hoodwinks
I have ever seen. Ted Tally's script is phenomenal, outclassing even the
novel on which it is based. But ultimately, this film belongs to its actors. Not just Hopkins, who of
course creates the greatest screen monster in history, or even to Foster,
who delivers the performance of her career (and seems to have had a
talent-ectomy shortly afterwards), but to Ted Lavine, for his courageous
performance as a killer transvestite, and to the world weary Scott
Glenn.

******
23 June 2002
10

Jonathan Demme's masterpiece `The Silence of the Lambs' is so laired in
every sense of the word, it offers haunting drab scenes and some of the
most
beautiful dramatic pieces ever put on film.  It truly at its heart is an
actor's film.  The camera is always right next to there noses so they are
forced to look right in the lens and the result is one of the most thought
provoking and brilliant pieces of film ever made.  Many will never forget
the scene where Lector (Brilliantly played by Anthony Hopkins) is talking
to
Clarice (Jodie Foster) about why she ran away from here uncles home.  The
filmmaking is so tender and so beautiful that you almost don't notice how
great the film really is.  It is a scary film, and a touching film an
unlikely mix when you talk about a cross dressing serial killer and a
cannibal.  Claurice is so innocent and so confused not one person can't
relate to her, Jodie foster gives the performance of her life and pushes
the
viewer to new heights of humanity and fear.  I love this film aside from
Coppola's `The Conversation' I think this is the best suspense film there
is.  It offers so much in every aspect, artistic and entertainment.  The
cinematography by Tak Fujimoto (The Sixth Sense) is as humanly oriented as
it gets, the way that camera `walks' and zooms is sort of how the human
eyes
work.  All these aspects are in the film so finely that it almost is hard
to
acknowledge it is there.  Jonathan Demme has since made a film that
captivates its subject matter as well as this one.
The characters are metaphors themselves, film and criminal
investigators have all agreed that Claurice is a lot like the serial
killer
Buffalo Bill, which they both are searching for what they want and what
they
are.  They are a lot alike I must admit, they are different in their
physicality towards there desires obviously.  The film is a piece of fact
that of which `Saving Private Ryan' is.  It is not true in its narrative
but
in its background facts it is completely factual.  Hannibal Lecter is
haunting and almost unrealistic but then again he is supposed to be.  He
is
so polite and so snooty that he is evil.  This film is just brilliant,
that's all there is to it.  In all of it's amazing scenes it truly gives
the
best acting of the 90's.  This film may never be surpassed as one of the
greatest horror/suspense films.  This film does so much on so many levels,
beautiful acting, great direction, screenwriting, and its thought
provoking
cinematography.  It's sequel Scott's `Hannibal' does not offer the same
depth charge that `Silence' offers,  the film falls to much around how
Hannibal is an evil cannibal and he is gonna get you.  `Silence of the
Lambs' is a brilliant scary film that will never be forgotten.

******
6 June 2002
10

I suppose Jonathan Demme's acclaimed masterpiece deserves more than two
words, so I'll go all out and write an entire review. But where do you begin
describing how amazing the ultimate psychological thriller truly is? First,
allow me to state the obvious: The Silence of the Lambs won all five major
Acadamy Awards (Best Actor, Actress, Screenplay, Director, and Picture),
making it the third to ever accomplish this feat. It was also added
somewhere in the sixties to AFI's list of the best 100 American movies of
all time. The plot of Silence is as follows: the FBI are chasing a bizarre
serial killer known as Buffalo Bill, who murders middle-aged women and then
skins them (sure, it sounds disgusting, and at times it is, but none of the
murders/skinnings are ever shown, making the entire horror of the film
purely psychological). They figure that in order to catch a killer, you must
think like a killer: they therefore decide to build a profile for any
assassin that may be able to provide details in relation to Buffalo Bill.
But the main criminal they want information from refuses to help them, and
that man is  as you've most likely already guessed  the infamous cannibal,
Hannibal Lecter. FBI recruit Clarice Starling is assigned the task of trying
to pry clues from the sick and twisted mind of Lecter, but she is warned:
`don't let Hannibal inside your head.' Unfortunately, that is exactly what
the madman has in mind. In exchange for details regarding Buffalo Bill,
Hannibal requests the privilege of practicing psychiatry on Starling: `quid
pro quo,' as he tells her. Little does she  nor the audience  know,
however, that Lecter is giving her hints and clues all along, scrambling
them into word games for her to solve. The viewer eventually realizes that
although the man is truly disgusting, he is also an utter genius. As you can
see, Silence is a unique drama that requires multiple viewings to grasp its
grandness. There are moments that will make you squint, close your eyes, and
even scream, but you will leave with a strange feeling of satisfaction, and
you, too, will find that you have let Hannibal inside your
head.Overall rating: 10/10

******
5 June 2002
10

Silence Of The Lambs is one of the most influential horror movies of the
early
1990s. It inspired Se7en and a host of other rip-offs (like Copycat).
Outstanding
performances by Anthony Hopkins, Jody Foster, Scott Glenn as well as Diane
Baker
and Kasi Lemmons make this movie extremely memorable.
If you're at all into horror movies, let alone serial killer movies, this is
the
movie to see.
The movie is based on Thomas Harris' second book featuring Hannibal
Lecter,
and it is one of his most researched ones, creating a sense of detail that
is
unmatched in most humdrum movie scripts. I think that's the real secret of
this movie.
The story is deceptively simple: FBI academy cadet Starling (Foster) is
manoeuvred
to interview serial killer Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins) in his high security
cell, because
Lecter may or may not have information on another serial killer on the
loose,
"Buffalo Bill". Bill's latest victim is Katherine Martin, the daughter of a
female senator
and the clock, as they say, is ticking.
The movie's psychological battles are not only between Starling and Lecter,
but
between she and her boss Jack Crawford, Senator Martin, Paul Krendler and
head
of the asylum, dr. Chilton (Anthony Heald's breakthrough performance - Law &
Order,
8MM). Also, the movie is structured as a journey of discovery,
for Clarice, who must face the horrors of her own past, as well for Lecter
and
"Buffalo Bill".
It's director Jonathan Demme's achievement that he puts the emphasis of
the
story on the psychological battles, rather than the gore. This is also what
makes
this movie unique.
10 out of 10, because it's one of the great and significant movies of all
time.

******
2 June 2002
10

I originally had no desire to see this movie, but I went to visit some
friends who were watching it on t.v. When I greeted them, they said hello
and quickly informed me to sit down and be quiet.  It didn't take me long
to
figure out why.  After seeing it at least a half dozen times, I finally
bought a copy.  I can't see myself ever getting tired of
it!

******
8 March 2002
8

Overall a good film.  Sir Anthony Hopkins gives an outstanding performance
as a psychotic who shows he has a lighter side to him when he meets
Claurice, the beautiful (and naive) FBI woman.  Not for the faint hearted. 
The photography is excellent, along with the night vision scenes and the
human skin-suits.

******
5 March 2002
9

may contain some spoilersI saw this movie when I was 16 and I loved it.  It still amazes me how good
acting can get... There are very few movies where there are two actors this
good.  Anthony Hopkins is absolutely fabulous as Hannibal Lecter and Jodi
Foster is perfect for her role as Starling.  The way they interact is so
bitter-sweet it's incredible.  However, as good as the acting is, the
feeling of their scenes together could not be achieved without the wonderful
cinematography.  When Lecter touches Clarices' hand when he gives her the
notes back is almost emotional.  That is the only time they make physical
contact in the movie, yet it feels like they've loved each other forever. 
The pervertedness and gore is used very well.  I am so glad that Silence of
the Lambs didn't turn into some kind of a Scream slasher and it remained a
true suspense thriller until the very end.Oh, and Senator, just one more thing: love your suit!**********10 stars**********

******
12 February 2002
8

The Silence of the Lambs was a rather disappointing movie when stacked up
against the beautiful novel by Thomas Harris.  Bridget Fonda really did no
justice to the role.  The only bright spot in the entire movie was the
masterful performance by Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter.  But again, I
have a slight problem in that they didnt make him wear contacts.  Hannibal
was meant to have red eyes yet Hopkins didnt.

******
13 January 2002
9

this movie was grusome right from the beginning and didn't leave you behind
in anyway.  The sad thing is,is that there are people who are like this in
real life.  I can't say I am anyway like this and I never will be.  As one
gets caught the other gets away and it seems like nothing was accomplished. 
Hannibal lecture lead the directions very well of get that mad man in which
he was a mad man himself.  Makes perfect sense.

******
30 December 2001
8

Oh, it´s you, Clarice. I was waiting for you...It´s wonderful to see how a movie can determinate a style, and change the
perception of horror films in so many ways.Clarice Starling, FBI student, is told to have some interviews with a
cannibal psycopath called Hannibal, in order to find about psycophaths´s
psycology so they could find a serial killer called "Buffalo Bill". But
Hannibal will talk to Clarice only if she feeds his sick curiosity.
Clarice
will face her fears, and will also face an intelligence and evilness that
don´t seem to be human.It has been the third film that has got the five most important Oscars:
Best
picture, director, actor, actress and script.One of the best things of the movie is the constant feeling of danger
until
the end titles. That´s mainly because of Anthony Hopkins, as Hannibal: he
IS
Hannibal. When you look at his eyes, you can see nothing but an
intelligent
killing machine. And that´s scary, boy. The sensation of facing someone
evil
and so intelligent that he could be "God" is one of the scariest feelings
anyone could ever have (although it has never happen to me, thank God).
But
that´s too because of Jodie Foster, as Clarice. She IS scared. She really
is. She is scared because Lecter sees through her head like he could see
though a window. She is scared because a person´s life depends on her (the
woman "Buffalo Bill" kidnapped). She is simply scared of looking him at
the
eyes.The mood is wonderful and creepy, even sick and macabre, it´s perfect for
the film.Demme did a marvellous job directing the actors. The script has absolutely
no line you can dislike.¿The best of the movie? Well, the dialogues between Hannibal and Clarice.
They´re full of energy, of power, spinning inside a countdown. He enjoys
the
power he helds on Clarice, mental power, he likes humilliating her,
because
the recognizes every one´s weak point.¿The worst? Nothing, of course!!!Now, please, switch off the computer, go to the nearby shop, and get "The
silence of the lambs". You won´t be disappointed. But you´ll be
frightened!!!!"I saw... lambs... they were screaming"

******
29 December 2001
8

I've got a love-hate relationship with this movie. A sort of a contradiction
I know, but it happens to be the case. Both Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster
give awesome performances, and the direction is fine as well, but the plot
is too macabre for me to take, even if I have seen the movie more than once.
Overall, the movie deserves a 8/10 rating from me.

******
4 December 2001
9

A while ago I commented a dutch film called "Spoorloos", and in that review
I said something like "Forget movies like Silence of the lambs or Seven,
this film (Spoorloos) is much better".
I still agree with the point that "Spoorloos" is a really good film, but you
have to realize that was only what I thought at that particular time, when
it was a long time ago since I last saw "Silence of the
lambs".
Last week I saw this film again and immediately remembered why I used to
like it so much. This film is still one of the greatest thrillers of all
time, and especially Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster did a tremendously
good job!But if you want to see something different and also very scary, I still
think you ought to to check out "Spoorloos":)

******
3 November 2001
10

This was by far one of the greatest movies of the last decade.  This movie
combines terror, fear, and drama in a way that will keep you on the edge
of
your seat the whole movie.  Just when you think it is over there is
another
shock or surprise!

******
13 October 2001
10

Best Feature: Chemistry between Foster and Hopkins
Worst Feature: Nothing worth noting
Possible spoilers   
   Have you ever imagined what it would be like to have your brain picked at
by a maniacal genius?  Silence of the Lambs answers that question in a
chilling and disturbing way.  Through a smooth script, clever directing, and
superior acting, SotL is a thrilling ride through the mind of the common
serial killer.
   Script 10/10-
SotL has a very consistent plot with all the twists and turns that make any
thriller great.  Ted Tally does a terrific job at telling the story from the
serial killer's point of view.
   Acting 10/10-
The acting is indeed the movie's strongest point.  SotL wouldn't be so good
if it weren't for Foster and Hopkins, who work so well together.  Nobody
else could have made Clarice Starling and Hannibal Lecter such a dynamic
duo.  You can't forget to mention the supporting cast, either (especially
Ted Levine, Scott Glenn, and Anthony Heald).
   Directing 9/10
Jonathan Demme does a fabulous job at pointing out what the actors need to
do.  He sets the tension up and can easily put us at the edge of our seats. 
The cinematography is also flawless, because all the close-ups he does lets
us see the emotion on everybody's face.  My only complaint?  Sometimes the
lighting effects bother me a little.
   Other 9/10
The score is great, the editing is very smooth, and the set designs are also
decent.  Costumes and makeup are exceptional (especially the human mask at
the end).  All the technical aspects do wonders to make SotL more
authentic
   Overall 10/10
This is the best thriller of the 90's and is appropriate for those looking
for more than an ordinary slasher flick out today.  See this movie as soon
as possible.

******
1 October 2001
10

When I first saw this, I couldn't believe it.  Yeah, I can see why it got
four stars!!  The acting is marvelous, the plot is incredible, and the
script is a masterpiece.  I love everything about this film, I mean
EVERYTHING, and can rightfully say that it is a see and see again suspense
movie.  I can give you who haven't see it the main difference between Dr.
Hannibal Lecter and 'Buffalo Bill."  Lecter makes you all squeamish and
scares you.  Buffalo Bill (what a naughty boy he is...) makes you feel
very,
very dirty.  'Nuff said.GO SEE THIS MOVIE NO MATTER WHAT!!!  It is a definite worth while for you
out there who have been unfortunate enough to have not seen this yet.  Oh,
one other note.  Send the kids to the grandparents before poppin' it
in.

******
28 September 2001
10

Silence of the Lambs is a movie that has been around almost as long as I
have.  I remember seeing the movie poster in the video rental place when I
was 6 and thinking how horrible the movie is.  It's the only movie I can
remember being so morally opposed to, but it has become my favorite movie.
I own it, I've read the book, and I've seen it a meager 5 times.  If you
haven't seen it, you MUST at least watch it once.  Granted, it's not for
everyone.  

******
12 September 2001
10

FBI trainee (Jodie Foster) is recruited to attempt to get through to a
brilliant psychotic criminal Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), in the
hope that he may help catch a serial killer. Almost unbearably intense
brilliantly acted (by Foster and Hopkins. Based on the same named Thomas
Harris novel. Oscar winner for Pest Picture, actor (Hopkins) Actress
(Foster) Directing (Jonathan Demme) and adapting screenplay (Ted
Tally).

******
3 September 2001
10

My comment (may contain spoilers, if that is still possible) is focused on a
particular reading of "The Dantean Mind of Hannibal Lecter"; that is, based
on the three novels by Thomas Harris and the three film adaptations, to
date.Demme's excellent portrayal of the entrance, into Hannibal's labyrinthine
Limbo, of our new "Special Agent, Clarice Starling" -- who is so unlike the
permanently damaged "Will Graham" who'd originally captured Lecter ["Red
Dragon" ends on some disturbing evidence of corrupting influences by "Dr.
Lecter" and his "mindset" (psychologically, a 'to the dark side' partial
conversion is alluded to in the novel; not Michael Mann's flawed 'happy
Hollywod ending' to his 1986 MANHUNTER !)] -- is simply, hauntingly
stunning. My critical point about how 'the Jodie Foster character' conveys exactly
that un-cynical combination of highly moral, ethically-beyond-reproach,
innocence and 'purity' so very attractive to our Florentine aesthete and
"monster" / for Anthony Hopkins' "Lecter," will find it's fullest pay-off
with Julianne Moore's street-wiser "Clarice" in Ridley Scott's HANNIBAL, of
course. But, already in the 1991 SILENCE, the "people will say we're in
love" trope of a COURTLY ("dark," to-be-sure !) LOVE affair between the
politically naive "well-scrubbed hustling rube with a little taste" and a
Nietzschean Uebermensch (taken to one logical conclusion Hollywood has never
quite succeeded at before !), our "psychiatrist" of "Chaos," is intriguingly
presented for the very first time. The heroics of this sincere "Special Agent," in that corrupt "stale
bureaucracy" our consummate cynic, "Dr. Lecter," contemptuously holds such
institutions as the FBI to be, quite obviously resonates with Dante's view
of the "Donna Gentile," "Beatrice" -- too pure and noble for this ignoble
world. Is it any wonder that the question is raised : "Do you know Florence
?  That's the Palazzo Vecchio and the Duomo, seen from the Belvedere."
Indeed, "a trainee" with "Such sweet decorum" (Dante) and her special
relationship with "everyone's favorite, gentleman, genius, cannibal," might
have made his quick capture in Florence quite a simple matter. If it were
not for the 'functional illiteracy' one must suppose also the FBI-like
institutions suffer under today. The manipulations of "Clarice" by "that awful Jack Crawford," to bring
"Lecter" out of his "memory palace" -- "Memory, Officer Starling, is what I
have instead of a view." -- are clearly cynical attempts to get him to
assist in their hunt for "Buffalo Bill." And if he'd condescend to do so, it
would be because "he did it to amuse himself." Such is the understanding
between this "Behavioral Science Dept. Section Chief" and "Hannibal the
Cannibal." If he had noticed the Dantean "contrapasso" of 'poetic justice'
Lecter's making "multiple Miggs" swallow "that offensive tongue" displays,
there is no evidence of it.What is so impressive in both the novel and the film's (closest of the
three) cinematic adaptation(s), is that there is a deeper, closer and more
intimate, 'understanding' between Starling and Lecter at work. And it is the
very "straight arrow" nature of Clarice's idealistic 'purity' which will
forever spare her the unpleasant fatal visitations of Hannibal, after his
genial escape : (although) "I think it would be quite something to know you
in private life." "I have no plans to call on you, Clarice, the world being
more interesting with you in it." He knows that, despite his enigmatic clues and help in getting "Jame Gumb,"
Clarice judges herself "with all the mercy of the dungeon at Threave"
(novel; Scottish "Dungeon of the Supernatural" with no escape), and her
temporary respite, within the contemporary corrupt City-State of some
Washingtonian Intelligence & Law Enforcement community, sleeping "deeply,
sweetly, in the silence of the lambs," will never long endure
!She IS "the honet in the lion," after all ! SEE: "HANNIBAL" (2001)  


******
31 August 2001
10

This movie set the standard with good acting and a very good movie theme. It
sets a very good pace with Academy Award winning Jodie Foster (Clarice
Starling) and then comes to a brilliant stop at Academy Award Winning
Anthony Hopkins (Dr. Hannibal Lector). Hannibal Lector, a very brilliant
man, is confined to a room separating him from the world in the form of
glass. At first, they do not trust one another. Then the relationship
becomes a more sufficent bond, and then the movie ends in a great fashion.This is not a horror. This is a movie about a man who does not only crave
humans like a sort of a sorbet, but belives the bad ones are absolutely
scrumptious. This film won 8 Oscars, including one for Jonathan Demme,
Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster. The thing about this is when the camera
stares at Hannibal, he is looking directly at you. Get acquainted, but not
to close.....

******
26 July 2001
9

"I ate his liver with some fater beans and a nice chanti". This classic
thriller based on the novel by Thomas Harris is an all time gem. A serial
killer helping to find a serial killer, this is not something that you see
very often.Women are being hunted by a somewhat deranged serial killer known only as
'Buffalo Bill'. His name refers to his trademark, skinning his victims. In
an attempt to secure a lead on Bill FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Jodie
Foster) is sent by her superiors to question the infamous Dr. Hannibal 'The
Cannibal' Lecter, so called as his victims were eaten. Lecter is being held
in a maximum security mental institute for life, of which he has already
served eight years.Hannibal asks Starling personal questions, questions which she has been
told
not to answer. However after a sixth victim is found skinned Starling is at
Lecters mercy. She is forced to tell Lecter everything about her childhood
which includes the slaughtering of the lambs. For these questions that are
answered Lecter rewards Starling with information about Buffalo
Bill.A bond is formed between Lecter and Starling, though it is not clear if
Lecter is sexually interested in Starling. He does kill Miggs, a psychopath
who is in the next cell to Lecter, by making him swallow his own tongue.
However, you do not know if he did this because he threw semen at Starling
or he did it to amuse himself.I don't want to ruin the film for those reading this who haven't seen it,
so
I'll let you experience this movie for yourself.Marks out of 10 - 9. Quite simply a brilliant film, with flawless acting
and superb direction from Jonathan Demme. 

******
25 July 2001
10

If you were to give credit to one person for the success of this film . .
.. who would it be?  Jonathon Demme directed this movie with precision
decision making.  Jodi Foster's ability to draw the viewer into the
parameters of her mission to find Buffalo Bill is exceptional.  Anthony
Hopkins's aptitude for selecting one his many of acting styles to play
Hannibal Lector was flawless.  However I feel the most credit should be
handed to Thomas Harris.  After reading "Silence of the Lambs" prior to the
film, I was more than thrilled to learn of the making of the film.This film deserves all the accolades the industry has to distribute.
Rightfully so this film swept the Academy Awards ceremony.  Very seldom
does
a film come along where it is so good, it damages the legacy of it's
actors,
actresses, and director.  Unfortunately, Demme (with the exception of
Philadelphia), Foster, and Hopkins have yet to reach the level of success
since 1991.If you have yet to see this film, then your idea of a cinematic masterpiece
is disillusioned.

******
17 July 2001
9

This is simply the scariest film of all time. Piece together some of the
finest suspense-filled camera shots, a creeping, slithering score, some cut
throat dialogue, and two of the greatest screen performances EVER, and you
have the basis for The Silence Of The Lambs.I know exactly why this film scares me so much. If it were not for this one
ingredient, I would pass up this movie as just another psycho-thriller. But
this movie scares me to my bare wits because of a character called Hannibal
Lecter, and the virtuoso actor that is SIR Anthony Hopkins. It frightens me
that there are people as sick and twisted as Hannibal Lecter in the world.
It frightens me more that people as sick as him can be so intelligent and
charming. And Hopkins makes me believe it. He makes me believe that Lecter
could be real.I don't want to get sidetracked into giving Hopkins all the praise, but
every time he is on the screen in this film, my hair stands on end, my back
starts to sweat and my hands start to shake. The first shot of Hannibal
Lecter, stood erect and tall in his prison cell, waiting for Clarice, will
flash in my mind for years to come whenever the movie is
mentioned.Foster is amazing too. Hopkins couldn't have been as good without an actress
of her intelligence to gel with. She gives him just the right amount of
respect while they share the screen, and this rubs off on her character. It
is because of Foster that we are allowed to feel suffocated, frightened,
almost ravaged by Lecter's intelligence, but equally intrigued by his
knowleadgable and brilliant mind.Ted Levine is excellent also. It's a difficult role that he takes on in this
movie, yet he manages to be as sickening and disturbing as he needs to be.
This is no easy task when you compare his screen time to that of Foster and
Hopkins.I can't buy this  movie. Simply because I buy movies to watch them alone
when I have nothing else to do, and I can't watch this film alone. I
symathise with Lecter too much, and that's probably what scares me the most.
He enjoys exploiting people that are less intelligent than he is, and
unfortunately, I can relate to that. The fact that I don't feel the urge to
eat them is my only comfort.All in all, you will not find a more tense, intelligent, disturbing thriller
than this. Having watched Hannibal recently, I realised just HOW good this
film was. And what a waste Lecter is when he isn't using his mastermind to
get what he wants, to play with people. It's a role that only one actor
could truly 'get his teeth into', and in Silence Of The Lambs, Sir Anthony
has never been better.If you're going to watch this film, make sure there's someone with you to
hold your hand. Because otherwise you WILL forget that this is a film, you
WILL become Starling, and Lecter WILL be truly in YOUR head too. And that's
when the lambs start screaming.....

******
16 July 2001
10

While basically a rehash of nearly everyone else's comments, this movie is a
classic, a masterpiece that should be a comparison for all other thrillers
to come.Every aspect of the movie, from the wonderful casting to the incredible
story, is top-notch.  It is a credit to the writers and producers that they
left the original storyline intact, when in todays hollywood features, it is
often likely to change the ending so everything turns out in a happy
way.The only unfortunate aspect of the movie is that it spawned so many copycat
movies, from Along Came A Spider to Watcher to the numerous other
pyscho-maniac thrillers in which the filmmaker tries to cause some sympathy
towards the maniac as you do with Anthony Hopkins.  Never does this movie
rise to a level of exploitation as the numerous others
do.This is just a perfectly done movie that will be watched for decades to
come.

******
5 July 2001
10

This is one of my favorite movies of all time.  The story is about a rising
FBI agent, Clarice Starling (played to perfection by Jodie Foster), who has
been sent to interview an evil and brilliant psychiatrist, Hannibal Lecter
(Anthony Hopkins gives the performance of a lifetime), because he might
know
some key information about another serial killer, "Buffalo Bill".  This
movie is perfectly adapted from Thomas Harris' novel of the same title.
This is a redefinition of pure evil, and proof that your soul can only
belong to you.

******
26 June 2001
9

Why is this the greatest movie ever, you might ask.  Well, for starters you
can watch the movie several times over and get something different out of it
each time.  Let me just clarify that by saying that I'm not a person who
watches it over and over because 'Lecter is the greatest character ever and
I idolize him.'  I like the movie because of the extreme detail we see in
character development, the cinematography, and the tension that's built up. 
I can't sympathize with people who were shocked and horrified that Lecter
would actually act the way he did in 'Hannibal.'  These people obviously
never actually realized that he had been in that cell for a
reason.Anyway, every character in this film (except maybe Dr. Chilton) is changed
by the end of it.  And isn't that why we choose to show the sequence of
events that unfold in a story?  Every character has a great arc that is
logically followed and believable.  Clarice is a wonderful character, and
you really understand how she could affect a psycho-path in the manner that
she did.  Crawford is presented as an interesting foil to Lecter in that he
is the other predominant male figure in Starling's life.  After the loss of
her actual father, she seems to seek these father figures to help her
through her life.  That is, until the end when she has grown enough to
strike out on her own.As for getting more and more out of it with each viewing, to give you an
example:  I recently revisited the film and the scene where Lecter is in the
actual cage came up.  As Clarice is being dragged out, he hands her the case
file and, in the process, brushes his finger against hers.  That particular
shot of their hands has always given me the creeps.  But I finally realized
that it was 'The Birth of Man.'  The ceiling of the Sistine Chapel (please
forgive my ignorance if I'm misspelling anything) depicts God bestowing life
on Adam by touching his finger in a similar manner.  By handing Clarice the
case file, Lecter is helping to save Catherine Martin's life.  She has
taught him to care (even if it is only sometimes).  Now, maybe this wasn't
the intent for the shot at all.  Or maybe it was the intent and it's so
obvious that I'm a big dope for not having noticed it before, but I find
these sorts of things every time I watch this movie.  And that, to me, makes
it wonderful.

******
21 June 2001
10

Silence of the Lambs has got to be the greatest Thriller ever made. Hands
down. It is so good. The acting is perfect, the camerawork is perfect, and
the story is perfect. Can a movie be better than this? Yes, but very rarely
is a movie better than this. Hannibal Lector is one of my favorite movie
characters ever created. He is brilliant and he is psychotic. He is what
every person has nightmares about in their dreadful dreams. He is what wakes
people in the middle of the night and physically forces them out of bed to
take a cold shower. Hannibal Lector is the epitomy of everything that is
evil. Lector is the type of man that would make you vomit and make you smile
at the same time. If you listen to every word he says, you will see the
definition of "genious" spill out all over your mind. I think Hopkins
deserved more than an Oscar for his perfect acting as Lector. That is how
well he acted in that role. Of course Jodie Foster was great as Clarice
Starling, but Hopkins steals the show. If you want to see a movie that will
stand the test of time, watch Silence of the Lambs.I give it an A+++++++++++


******
11 May 2001
10

I watched this movie several times and each time I got or heard something
new that I missed before. The movie is full of psychological aspects. The
script is so good that you really can feel when the two main characters
having dialogs. Of course, we are talking about two of the finest actors in
the world. Jodie Foster in her life´s role, deserved her Oscar. Anthony
Hopkins in his second best role ever actually after his performance in The
Remains Of The Day (1993). 
He truly deserved his Oscar as the best actor of 1991.Lets not forgetting the best director of 1991: Jonothan Demm. His vision did
this to the most brilliant Thriller of all time. This is officially &
unofficially the best picture of 1991.
Hannibal is a good sequel and another master show from Hopkins, but
psychologically Lambs is a masterpiece you can not beat.

******
7 April 2001
10

After the vast disappointment of Hannibal, I could only think of how
brilliant Silence of the Lambs is. Alternately bizarre, chilling, intense
and shocking, Silence of the Lambs is one of the best thrillers of the 90's.
Little can be said about Hopkins' trademark role that hasn't been said
before, same think goes for Jodie Foster's believable performance as
Starling. Ted Levine is creepy as the sadistic Jame Gumb, aka Buffalo Bill.
9/10.

******
20 March 2001
10

S uperb
I ncredible
L ecter
E erie
N oteworthy
C reative
E xcellent

******
19 March 2001
8

1st watched 7/28/2000 - 8 out of 10 (Dir-Jonathon Demme):
Excellent thriller with tremendous acting throughout. Every character is
portrayed well with Hopkins & Foster leading the way. Demme scares you
without the typical jump out of your seat moments. The story itself keeps
you on the edge of your seat.

******
6 March 2001
9

In the surprisingly small screen time Anthony Hopkins has in The Silence of
the Lambs, he has been able to make an intense character and gives one of
the most incredible performances in movie history. Hannibal Lecter is a
fascinating character and Hopkins is marvelously mad as this maniac. His
performance is nothing short of brilliant. Jodie Foster too is very good as
Clarisse Starling. She is very believable as a young FBI agent who has to be
against a mastermind such as Lecter. The scenes between her and Hannibal are
spectacular. Actually, the story between her and Lecter make Buffalo Bill's
part of the movie seem weaker than it really is. When you have such great
scenes and have to live through good ones, you just hope the greatness will
come back... And when Hannibal is back, so is greatness. The script in these
scenes is just fantastic. They make an otherwise good movie excellent. The
story in The Silence of The Lambs is very well written. As for the
directing, Demme overuses the zooming in in some less important scenes a bit
but his directing is still very effective and even excellent in some scenes.
One near the end is seen through the eyes of Bill and is very well
done(which is a good thing in a thriller). Because of the marvellous job
done by the actors, Anthony Hopkins becoming one of the most frightening men
in the history of movies, very good script and good directing, this movie is
an excellent thriller that I highly recommend.85%

******
26 February 2001
10

Silence of the Lambs is one film that outdoes the source material, in this
case the novel by Thomas Harris.  
What is really interesting are some neat camera tricks.  Demme shows us
shots from night vision goggles, something I believe was copied by Jurassic
Park and The Watcher..
When Starling and Lecter are doing the quid pro quo banter, we are looking
at Clarice but we can see Lecter in the glass separating them. Catherine's POV from the hole is unique, we see what she sees when Jame is
staring down at her.
Extreme closeups of Lecter and Starling in Tennessee when discussing her
childhood and the slaughter of the lambs.Other things I found different from other suspense/horror
films:
Usually you don't have 2 villains, and of those that do, usually the 2nd
villain doesn't help the good guys...
Nothing really jumps out at you, did The Sixth Sense take off from
that?I love this movie and I am truly excited about the sequel, Hannibal.  I
didn't like the novel but what the hell, I heard they changed the ending
some so perhaps it won't be that bad.4 out of 4 stars, highly recommended.A.J.

******
24 February 2001
8

Silence of the Lambs is amazing.  I watched with a couple of friends on a
Friday night and, in all honesty, was the highlight of the day.  The acting
was superb, with Sir Anthony Hopkins putting up an utterly believable,
shockingly gruesome facade as Dr. Hannibal Lechtor, Jodie Foster was also
great, her performance was very fitting for her character.  Not one scene
felt out of place in the entire movie, the logic and action were perfectly
complimentary.Cannot wait to see Hannibal.

******
24 February 2001
8

This movie is pure magic, even if it is scary and gross. The acting is
wonderful and it is so haunting, that I didn't sleep for weeks after.
Hannibal is a cult icon now and this movie is one of the best ever made.
Despite some extremely gory parts(that are all well placed and probably
necessary) this is an amazing piece of work.

******
17 January 2001
10

This thriller, is just the best movie I have ever seen until now. A good
story, a good cast and you are on the end of your chair the whole movie.
The
Silence of the Lambs is used as an example/basis for many other thrillers
brought out later. The Silence had all the good ingredients.
Now it is time for Hannibal........

******
16 January 2001
9

  Dr. Hannibal Lecter: incredibly brilliant, amazingly deceptive and
manipulative, and unspeakably evil.  "The Silence of the Lambs" delves into
the depths of the mind of Hannibal Lecter.
  In 1991, when "The Silence of the Lambs" was released, audiences were
shocked when the previously mild-mannered Anthony Hopkins delivered the
amazing performance as Hannibal Lecter.  It was the the third movie in
history to recieve all five major Academy Awards, Best Picture, Best Actor,
Best Actress, Best Director, and Best Screenplay.  The Academy was right in
giving the awards to this fantastic movie.
  Clarice Starling is taken away from her normal training as an F.B.I. agent
and is dispatched to speak with Lecter, a formerly well known psychologist
and now imprisoned murderer.  Her mission in this is to get a mental profile
of Buffalo Bill, the current serial killer who the F.B.I. are desperately
hunting down.  Maybe, if they had a mental profile from an actual serial
killer, and cannibal, they could get inside the mind of Buffalo Bill and
catch him.  Hannibal then more or less informs Clarice that Bill was once a
patient of his.  As Clarice again interviews Lecter, the story
unfolds.
  This film is more than just the pursuit to catch a serial killer, more
than the actions of a serial killer, it is a journey into the mind of an
enigma, Dr. Hannibal Lecter.  
  

******
10 January 2001
9

I am continually disappointed seeing movie adaptations of books I've loved
to read.  This is one of the few times I felt differently!  Jonathan Demme's
adaptation of Thomas Harris' Silence of the Lambs is quite literally the
most suspenseful, perfectly cast, exceptionally scored thriller in years. 
Kudos are due largely to the extraordinary performance of Sir Anthony
Hopkins.  (To be truthful, even hearing him narrate this year's Grinch movie
gave me the willies - imagine Hannibal Lecter in Whooville!?!).  Hopkins is
delicious in his portrayal of the imprisoned doctor and Jody Foster's
Clarice Starling is the perfect blend of intellect and innocence.  Both the
tension and their rapport is instant and the sequel "Hannibal" will sorely
miss this - Clarice will be played by actress Julianne Moore.  The
screenplay was so true to the novel ( - agreed -  condensed as required -
but true none the less).  My only complaint is the casting of Scott Glenn as
Jack Crawford.  Unfortunately Glenn seemed a little too 'spit and polished'
and a little less haggard (remember in the book he had nursed his terminally
ill wife as well as made finding Lecter a crusade).  A more world-worn Nick
Nolte may have satisfied my appetite better (no Hannibal pun intended). 
This is one of my top 10 favorite films and a definite "must see" for
suspense/thriller fans.

******
3 January 2001
8

The Silence of the Lambs is the best psychological thriller ever made. Not
that it has tough competition in this category, but I don't think it will
ever be matched. A magnificently made film about a serial killer (the
infamous Hannibal Lecter played by Anthony Hopkins) and the FBI agent
(Foster) who delves herself into a case which she will soon regret. The two
actors are perfect together, fortunately they were both rewarded with Best
Actor and Actress Oscars. Jonathon Demme's direction is also very good. He paces the film to near
perfection and sets each scene up with purpose and suspense.A very good film, but not the best of 1991, that goes to Oliver Stone's JFK.
The film did, however, win five Academy Awards beating out JFK in almost
every one of it's nominated categories. The Silence of the Lambs is one of
only three films that won in the five major categories along with Capra's
1934 classic It Happened One Night and Forman's 1975 One Flew Over the
Cuckoo's Nest.Won Oscars for Best Picture, Director, Actor, Actress and Adapted
Screenplay.****1/2

******
3 January 2001
10

Jonathan Demme's Silence of the Lambs is perhaps the best suspense thriller
that I have ever seen.  Anthony Hopkins is extraordinary as serial killer
Dr. Hannibal Lecter, and he gets to play off of an excellent performance by
Jodie Foster as Clarice Starling.  Both won Oscars, and both deservedly so.
Hopkins is so menacing as Lecter that even behind the bars or the glass you
are terrified of him.  The direction of the film provides a tight moving
suspenseful storyline that moves along at a perfectly timed pace.  Demme's
film is a landmark film elevated to the level of masterpiece by the
performances of its two stars, Hopkins and Foster.  A definite must-see for
anyone with the courage to do so!

******
27 December 2000
9

Silence of the lambs is defiantly one of my top 10 favorite movies. A
classic in my book. I love the casting too. I think its probably Anthony
Hopkins' and Jody Foster's best work. I don't approve of a sequel and i'm
glad Jody Foster didn't either, ones enough to make this one memorable. 


******
17 December 2000
10

Try to sit back & hold on to something warm & solid. This will scare you in
a chilling way. Anthony Hopkins knows no boundaries in THIS movie.FBI or no FBI, Anthony gives a great performance. This is a very different
role for him & he does it like the master actor he is.
A great thriller and chiller. Watch it to the end & you will definitely
rewind this one.

******
7 August 2000
10

This movie,in my opinion,is the best film of all time. Anthony Hopkins is
creepy as hell as Hannibal Lecter and Jodie Foster is perfect as Clarice
Starling. It's too bad that she won't be in the upcoming Hannibal, but I'm
sure Julianne Moore will play the part well. A lot of people think I'm
weird, this being my favorite movie of all time. I don't doubt them, but
it
doesn't matter. This is just a really good movie, but it does have some
gory
scenes so it's not for the squeamish. But anyway, I recommend it to people
who like psychological thrillers such as The Sixth Sense and Psycho. See
this movie, because there's a reason that it won all five of the major
academy awards, which are best screenplay, director, actress, actor and
movie. I give it an A+.

******
2 August 2000
10

The film is the best! I don't care what anyone says about it! The setting is
good and I love the garage scene where Jodie minds a ???? in a ?????? I
loved Anthony Hopkins as that deranged cannibal! That Brooke Smith should
have won a best supporting actress award. It is dark moody and a great
film!
If you have not seen it, you must or I 'll find you! See it and you won't
regret it! No go rent it and prosper!10/10

******
27 July 2000
8

Silence of the Lambs has all the elements a movie should have to be a
classic. Great acting, plot, and direction. Jodie Foster gave a memorable
performance here and the confrontations between her and Lecter(Hopkins) was
truly frightening and chilling. SOTL is well thought out and a classic of
the 90s.

******
23 July 2000
10

This was definately the best drama/horror movie ever.  It is soooooo creepy
because there actually was a Hannibal Lecter.  I first saw this not very
long ago, and then, just days later I heard about the prequel, HANNIBAL.  I
cannot wait!!! I'm gonna see it opening night.  Definately a classic 6 out
of 5 stars ******

******
18 July 2000
10

I was so impressed by this film.Anyone who is interested in thrillers will
love this.Also Anthony Hopkins was an excellent choice for the casting of
Hannibal Lecter, I can't think of any other actor who could of filled the
role any better.

******
29 June 2000
10

"Silence of the Lambs" is by no means an easy film to watch.  The whole film
has an aura of evil and psychotic power.  Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is
a rising star in the FBI.  Her supervisor and teacher assigns her to
interview the infamous Dr. Hannibal Lecter, A.K.A. "Hannibal the Cannibal"
(Anthony Hopkins),a  a veteran serial killer, a former psychologist, and a
rare living psychopath.  Starling is assigned to interview Hannibal because
of a new serial killer in the public dubbed Buffalo Bill, because he "likes
to skin his humps".  The FBI suspects that the secret of Bill's compulsive
killing is somewhere inside the mind of Hannibal.  The movie is tense, long,
and brutal, but you feel the fear and desperation of the victims and the
interest/fear of Agent Starling.  This is a truly disturbing movie though,
and I don't think that anyone of the age of twelve could handle it.


******
28 June 2000
10

This movie is one of the best movies of the 90's. Everything about this
movie is BRILLIANT! There are no words for the performances that Jodie
Foster and Anthony Hopkins gave or for the directing by Jonathan
Demme.Jodie Foster plays an FBI trainee who is sent to question Anthony
Hopkins(a
psychotic cannibal) in the hopes that he might help her catch another
brutal
serial killer on the loose.The movie is intense,creepy,dramatic,and powerful all blended together
outstandingly. Definitely recommended.  10/10

******
21 June 2000
10

Absolutely the pinnacle in modern suspense films. "Seven" had the gore, but
how can it possibly hold a candle to the palatable horror felt when
Starling
finds a head in a jar? Or the hideously erotic tension as Lecter's finger
brushes that of the young agent? Hopkins is a master, Foster is his equal.
In the search for intelligent entertainment that will leave neither your
mind nor your behind numb--here is the answer.

******
5 November 1999
8

I have not watched this movie since it came out when I was 11, so I am sure
if I saw it today, my opinion might change.  I enjoyed the plot, but I
remember the movie being really gruesome.  I also fell in love with the
actress Jodie Foster from her role in the movie.  She is a tremendous
actress.  Sir Anthony Hopkins did a great job as well, especially with his
haunting last line.  I think I need to see the movie again though, in order
to do it justice with a detailed commentary.

******
16 November 1998
8

There is so much to admire in this film.  The performances
are uniformly strong with Hopkins having the most colorful and making the
very most of it.
The direction and screenplay mostly are also extremely
strong.So why that ending?  Part Collector, mostly Wait Until Dark,
and
several slasher films have gone this very same route.Because the film is so very very good the ending is a let-down.
A nine movie with a 4 ending.

******
2 September 2015
10
This is a truly remarkable film. I have yet to read the book, but this
film was great. It was captivating and kept me on the edge of my seat
the whole time. There are so many things from this movie that are still
referred to today, whether it be in every day life, TV shows, or other
movies. It's scenes have been quoted and even reenacted. I thank you,
Thomas Harris, for creating the characters in which we are able to
watch in this movie. I'm trying not to give away spoilers. I just want
everyone to know that this was an amazing movie. I highly recommend it
to anyone who wants to watch a good, classic movie, or someone who just
wants a good fright. Great movie. 10/10.

******
30 August 2015
10
This movie is a classic for a reason. I believe it will always be one
of the best psychological films of all time. Now, I get scared easily
and was wary about watching it because I had always seen it under
"horror", but it really isn't scary. And trust me, I get scared easily
to no end. So if you're worried about watching it, don't be. It's not
even very gore, blood and gutsy. Hannibal lecter is a genius and he's
my favorite movie character of all time. Needless to say, if you want a
look into the mind of a super smart mad man, view this. It's an
intense, suspenseful crime movie that will have you on the edge of your
mind the whole night-- and I say mind and not seat because it makes you
forget your surroundings and be engrossed in the movie. I'm not good at
paying attention to movies all the way through, but this one never left
my mind. Everyone should watch this movie. Great fro crime lovers,
psycho thriller suspense horror movie gurus.

******
22 August 2015
10
I just want to say this movie has everything that a great thriller
movie must have. A great plot and setting which I am sure many
thrillers movies copied. The dark tone of scenes was just right. Not
too much not too little. The sky in the scenes is always gray and the
atmosphere is cold and wet, which helps the audience to become absorbed
into the gloominess of the movie. Moreover, I think a great movie
livens up all the main characters within the given time and this one
has achieved it. I think Ted Levine's acting was particularly supreme.
I can't understand why he didn't win any big award for this role. And
of course, Foster and Hopkins did an excellent job in playing those
complicated characters.

******
27 May 2015
9
Oh my God, how did my parents ever let me watch this film? I know I
blocked most of it from my memory but watching it again revived the
sheer fear I felt when I was younger. Anthony Hopkins is so creepy that
just the look of him and his speech make me shiver. I can't believe
what goes on in that film, no wonder that I blocked out most of it.Anthony Hopkins has such a presence in this film that he stays with you
even when he's not in the scene. He's in your head the whole time but
when you think of it he's barely in the movie, he just has a few scenes
that's how powerful his performance is.The film is so smartly shot, they chose a petite actress, that can
easily look frail, and they used some wide shots from above to show how
small she is around the Men, and shows how small and inexperience she
must feel around them. Jodie Foster played her character with
sensitivity and a quiet strength that also elevated the film.The Silence of the Lambs is over 20 years old but it holds up, you're
drawn to this suspenseful thriller from the beginning to the end, and
then it stays with you. @wornoutspines

******
11 May 2015
10
The Silence of the Lambs surprised everybody by winning all five major
Oscars and being only the third film, as well as the last, to achieve
this. I say 'surprised' not because it was an unworthy winner, quite
the contrary, but because it is only once in a blue moon when the
Academy acknowledges any R rated film with any awards such as these.Based pretty closely on the riveting Thomas Harris novel of the same
name, this was the second film to feature his character Hannibal
Lecter, the first being the Michael Mann thriller Manhunter (1986).
Both movies take differing approaches to their broadly similar material
but where the earlier film is almost clinically stylised, Lambs is a
little more horror-oriented. This extends to Anthony Hopkins
performance of refined malevolence as Lecter, which was one that would
propel him to super-stardom. From his first appearance in a cell that
looks not unlike a medieval dungeon, Hopkins is in his element playing
this extremely interesting character in such a way as to maximise all
possibilities. He really steals every scene he is in and this is no
disrespect to Jodie Foster who is the definite lead, she also puts in
an extremely good turn overall but this will always primarily be
remembered as being Hopkins movie. That said, much of the overall
credit has to go to director Jonathan Demme for putting together a
masterfully paced and edited film, while remaining very faithful to the
source novel.The story has a top FBI student Clarice Starling assigned to a special
case where she is to interview incarcerated cannibalistic serial killer
Hannibal Lecter as a way to help identify another murderer at large
known as Buffalo Bill. In doing so she is forced to let Lecter into her
mind, with all the inherent psychological dangers that presents.The Silence of the Lambs remains a very effective thriller that focuses
its attention mostly on the psychological, yet is memorably visceral on
occasion too. It's pretty intense in places, with all of the scenes
involving Buffalo Bill being extremely creepy indeed. But it's also the
various details of the investigation that make a huge impact. Layer
upon layer of dark intrigue is slowly and expertly revealed to
ultimately construct a dark masterpiece. What gives it its extra level
of greatness of course is the script and performances. All-in-all, a
justifiably revered and iconic film that still packs a punch.

******
4 April 2015
10
I've watched this movie about 8-10 times over the years, I really like
it that much. I've even picked up something every time I watched it
that I hadn't noticed or understood earlier, I like that too. (I have
to confess, I was a minor when I first saw the movie, I was about 10
years old. But I liked it even though I was that young.) The cast is
awesome, they fit their parts perfectly. I could not imagine anyone
else for the roles.I've also read the novel, I like them both (movie and novel) even
though of course they're not totally identical.I don't think there's a single thing I'd change about this movie.

******
31 March 2015
10
Jonathan Demme's hypnotic adaptation The Silence of The Lambs, has a
solemnity that's been entirely lacking in horror movies lately. Demme's
film is frightening on both visceral and intellectual levels, inviting
favorable comparison with unnerving classics of the genre. Ingénue FBI
agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is sent to interview, the
profoundly mad yet seemingly sane psychiatrist Hannibal Lecter (Anthony
Hopkins) to prise clues about another serial killer dubbed 'Buffalo
Bill', who has left a rash of unsavory murders along his trail. The
killer is abducting corpulent young women, then mutilating them and
dumping their bodies. Clarice summons all her courage to face the
sadistic shrink, but Lecter has a commanding presence. Relishing the
superiority of his intellect, he instantly recognizes her true
vulnerability, watching with a self-satisfied smirk as Clarice
struggles to maintain her professional composure. Still, there's a
glimmer of admiration as Lecter examines Clarice with his penetrating
eyes. He offers to help catch the serial killer (who is now holding the
daughter of a U.S. senator hostage) but to learn what he knows, Clarice
has to engage in his dangerous mind games. Forced to confront her own
childhood fears, she hangs on like a terrier until he imparts a vital
clue.The Silence of the Lambs is a movie without unnecessary excess, with
all its facets merging perfectly in the telling of the tale. Its
ghastliness is more psychological than visual, but there is enough of
both varieties to shake up almost anyone. It forces us to look at
things we would rather not see but it continues to have a vise- like
grip on us. But the true strength of the movie lies in its exploration
of a place beyond physical revulsion - in the darkest corners of the
souls of both the hunters and the hunted. Jonathan Demme exercises a
great level of restraint in the midst of portraying madness, running
the gamut of emotions while still capturing a clever wit and a searing
intelligence. He implicates the audience, dragging us into a vicarious
conspiracy with a murderer.But no comment about this film is complete without a mention of the
lead cast. Hopkin's Hannibal Lecter is a visual treat; a remarkably
lucid portrait of lunacy. As the steely-eyed psychopath, Hopkins plays
Lecter with such magisterial authority, that you can almost sense the
actor relishing the part. What makes him more than your everyday
villain is the piercing intelligence and irresistible charm he brings
to the role. Jodie Foster imbues Clarice Starling with such humanity
that one can't help but feel connected to her and her pain. It is a
testament to her abilities that she holds her own against her
scene-stealing co-star. The Silence of the Lambs remains in our minds not only because it
frightens, but because it probes and penetrates, tickling our minds
while also making our hearts race. A powerfully compelling cinematic
experience!

******
19 March 2015
10
I watched this movie when I was in my early twenties for the first time
and it was in that moment that I realized the scariest monsters are the
ones that are real. They aren't the things that go bump in the night
that we never actually see. It's easy to cover up your head and pretend
nothing is there but when you're faced with the reality of what's truly
out there, the human monsters that can do the most depraved things to
other human beings, that's when you truly understand what 'fear' really
is.I have long been a fan of Sir Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster. This
movie was by far one of their mutual best. I would recommend this movie
to anyone that loves detective thrillers and depraved serial killer
psychopaths, especially ones that are so profoundly intelligent that it
makes them even scarier than their actions alone.Seriously, make this one of your must-watch movies... you won't regret
it.

******
11 March 2015
9
This movie has to be one of the most unique and gripping thrillers of
all time. Anthony Hopkins' performance raised the bar as to how a
villain can be portrayed as he turned in one the greatest performances
of all time. His Dr Lecter extended way beyond convincing as he became
this character and is considered by many to be the greatest movie
villain of all time. It is very difficult for me to visualize any other
actor in this role. Jodie Foster also turns in an outstanding
performance as Agent Starling, an academy student seeking entry into
the FBI. The storyline is very original and the supporting cast is
simply amazing. While it does center on the deranged minds of 2
killers, this film does not rely on excessive gore, blood, or
dismemberment in order to captivate the audience.

******
5 March 2015
10
This movie invites us to think outside the box and learn about what
humans are capable of. It is an interesting story and a movie that won't let you fall asleep. I'm a big fan of movies that break the scenarios we get to see everyday
in real life and definitely this is one excellent example of it. Great cast, great photography and an impressive content and a great
performance from well known actors and actresses with a large
trajectory. Be open minded when you get to see the movies and wait to watch
unexpected things.

******
9 November 2014
9
Cannibal Psychiatrists. Crazy people. HeWomans. That teenager from
"Taxi Driver". Night vision goggles. Murder. R rated language. Guns.
FBI. Mystery. Long hair. Face biting. Paintings. Maximum security jail
facilities. Pretending to be dead. 1991. Disturbing dancing. Buffalo
Bill. Hannibal rhymes with cannibal. Dead people bodies. Fat people.
Also dead. Quotes. Quotes. Quotes. Quotes. Quotes. Quotes. Quotes.
Quotes. Based on a book with the same name. A sequel to a book with a
completely different name. Popular movie. Do not show this to your kids
or else they will never go to sleep and they will constantly be
thinking that doctors will eat them. 9/10The Silence of The Lambs.

******
8 November 2014
8
There are two types of worthy villains: those who are so despicable
that we revel in the cold- blooded personality that we look at from the
outside looking in, and the one that we want to identify with. That
villain can appear socially intelligent, a cunning schemer and, at
times, sympathetic. In Hannibal Lecter we get both. All else is a
police drama that allows Jodie Foster to star with a dismaying West
Virginia accent and a propped up set of credentials that places her in
a position to be at the center of it all. For me, although Foster is
always interesting to look at, it is Ted Levines' "Buffalo Bill" that
encases the chilling nature of the film because we get a glimpse of the
biggest reason we watch horror films. What drive the evil found in
mankind. Levine gives us a chilling and fascinatingly demented killer
and we see why he's doing what he's doing. We admire Anthony Hopkins
"Hannibal" as a brilliant doctor who also happens to be self aware and
just as evil.

******
2 November 2014
8
Young FBI trainee Foster seeks advice from all-knowing charismatic
cannibal Hopkins in order to capture serial killer Levine. Second film
to feature Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lector; some might try to make a
point that it's a pseudo-sequel MANHUNTER, but most won't agree. Film
deserves props for the chemistry between Foster and Hopkins, as well as
a chilling scene with Levin instructing his prisoner (Brooke Smith) to
rub lotion on her skin "or else it gets the hose again". The ending is
somewhat abrupt and unsatisfying, and it seems like a
crime/drama/thriller wouldn't need a $19 million budget. Still, the
replay value is practically limitless. One of three films to win
Academy Awards in all the top five categories.***½ (out of four)

******
15 February 2014
10
This series is probably the best thing i have ever seen; it's an
experience itself; it's phenomenal; and unforgettable to be frank;
because i basically watched it a month ago for the first time; but i
can't not think about it; it moved the jealousy in me to come up with
such a successful masterpiece; but i know i will never reach it's
class. i hated Judy Foster; i really hated her; well; that was before
seeing this movie; but now i admire her; and her incredible performance
as Agent Starling; she was fit to this role perfectly, am so glad it
went to her. now the reason i watched this movie in all; is because;
well; it had it's share of the Academy Awards; and it's one of the best
250; needless to say; Anthony Hopkins was the main reason; the main
factor of this movie's success; what a magical performance! Sir.Anthony
Hopkins wasn't just amazing at this movie only; but he was in Red
Dragon and Hannibal; too. no one can be a better Hannibal Lecter than
Mr.Hopkins; this so-called Hannibal TV series is a pile of trash. they
destroyed the story. i think i'm going to need another 7 years to get
over this movie; considering that it hunts me all the time; and i have
become obsessed even; obsessed with this beautiful yet brutal story;
obsessed with how intelligent Hannibal is; obsessed of his personality;
i'm with no doubt obsessed with this character; i have never seen a
better portrayal of a character before; so Anthony Hopkins is
definitely one of a kind.

******
28 December 2013
10
The Silence Of The Lambs was the only third film to win all the top
five categories in the Academy Awards and it's also the first horror
film to win best picture and it won rightly so. Silence Of The Lambs is
one of the best film I have ever seen.The writing is excellent you can
tell that mainly by noticing that some of the clichés that other serial
killer (slasher) films often use are ignored of in here the direction
is superb but there is no doubt that what makes this brilliant film
what it is it's the acting without the talents of the main and
supporting cast The Silence Of The Lambs would be nothing. Jodie Foster
brings the right amount of courage and vulnerability to the character
of Clarice Starling and of course there is Anthony Hopkins who
basically steals the show as Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter the
brilliant psychotic cannibalistic and highly manipulative serial killer
although he was not the first to play Lecter (the first actor to
portray the character of Lecter was Brian Cox in "Manhunter"-1986) but
never the less Hopking is and always will be Lecter. The Silence Of The
Lambs is gory, realistic, suspenseful, dramatic, dark and thrilling but
it's not a "slasher".

******
25 December 2013
10
First I want to start by saying that you would not be wasting your time
by watching this film. Well personally I am a horror movie fanatic so I
know a good horror movie when I see one and this is my favorite so
that's got to say something.This movie is fantastic it has everything
and has a very good plot.The movie has a lot of plot twists and turns
and it's not predictable, most movies are predictable which makes them
boring but The Silence of The Lambs isn't so it makes the movie very
gripping.This movie is also good because it is not to bloody or too
fake(too computerized) in anyway like some movies they give now so it's
good to know if you don't like movies too bloody.Also,I feel that if
you don't trust this review to check with the awards they won and box
office just to be sure this movie will be for you.So go ahead, watch
the movie you will not be disappointed in any way at all.

******
6 December 2013
10
We have seen bad guys,good guys...bad guys turning good,good guys
turning bad, bad guys helping the good guys catch the worst guys. this
movie has everything. from top of the bottom to bottom of the top. it
has emotions of a good guy towards a bad guy. an outrage of a bad guy
on another bad guy. you will find good taking help of a bad.and yet
Dr.lecter has nothing to do with the case. the movie ,you can say is
actually moving two ways. one showing the scenes with judie foster
taking help of lecter and he has merely something to do with the case.
for he has his own plans. the escape scene of hannibal from the prison
is one of the most thrilling yet the intelligent way of escaping. you
will sometimes feel good for him. and yet when you will see his
carnivorous behavior, you are gonna be damned. in few words it is "the
most scary yet the thrilling movie of the century"

******
20 October 2013
10
As I was on the search for the scariest movies of all time , I found
this movie beneath various horror movies; I was curious to notice that
this was the only psychological thriller . I started watching just for
getting a rough idea of how it will be and surprisingly I watched it in
full without forwarding; it left me chilled. As for a first time watch
it was just awesome movie ; and every time i watched it again; i could
feel the class and its thrill which will never drain off. For the movie
lovers if you're not an Anthony Hopkins fan; definitely you will become
one after you finish this movie .With such a brilliance he conveys us
the terror and macabre of Dr. Hannibal Lecter ; renowned psychiatrist
behind the bars . Hannibal the Cannibal as he is known best!Each second
the fear builds up and the simplicity with which he evokes the feeling
is quite wonderful an actor. With meagre 16 minutes of screen time ;
Hopkins steals the show and most of the credit goes to him .Jodie
Foster appears as the young ; attractive detective Clarice Starling .
She is such a wonderful actress who is really flexible and I'm sure she
did succeed enough doing any role . Ted Levine excels as Jane Gumb
a.k.a Buffallo Bill ; Enormous amount of effort he has put in makes the
movie go into some dark backgrounds where it finds brilliance and
villainous nature of the character is so easily conveyed with his voice
modulations and the actions . Scott Glen as Jack Crawford and Anthony
Heald as the crooked minded Dr.Chilton has played his part and have
made this movie a must watch spine chilling thriller experience . Music
by Howard shore makes it gripping ; and the exceptional cinematography
by Tak Fugimoto is worth notice. Ted Tally created the scenes with
visual brilliance and the pulp of Thomas Harris' Novel is not lost
being created in big screen. My favorite scene will be Agent starling's
first encounter with Dr.Lecter ; the window scene which creates an aura
of fear . So friends ; It will be such a loss to your movie madness if
you miss this Jonathan Demme master piece . So Watch the classic as
soon as you can . All the good for the one who waits ! :)

******
1 September 2013
7
In this multiple Oscar-winning thriller, Jodie Foster stars as Clarice
Starling, a top student at the FBI's training academy whose shrewd
analyses of serial killers lands her a special assignment: the FBI is
investigating a vicious murderer nicknamed Buffalo Bill, who kills
young women and then removes the skin from their bodies. Jack Crawford
(Scott Glenn) wants Clarice to interview Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony
Hopkins), a brilliant psychiatrist who is also a violent psychopath,
serving life behind bars for various acts of murder and cannibalism.
Crawford believes that Lecter may have insight into this case and that
Starling, as an attractive young woman, may be just the bait to draw
him out. Lecter does indeed know something of Buffalo Bill, but his
information comes with a price: in exchange for telling what he knows,
he wants to be housed in a more comfortable facility. More important,
he wants to speak with Clarice about her past. He skillfully digs into
her psyche, forcing her to reveal her innermost traumas and putting her
in a position of vulnerability when she can least afford to be weak.
The film mingles the horrors of criminal acts with the psychological
horrors of Lecter's slow-motion interrogation of Clarice and of her
memories that emerge from it

******
17 January 2013
8
One of the iconic characters in horror is brought to us in this
terrifying thriller and brought Sir Anthony Hopkins the 1991 Best Actor
Oscar. Jodie Foster (who also won an Oscar) stars as naive FBI agent
Clarice Starling on her first big assignment to capture the
psychopathic serial murderer known as Buffalo Bill. To assist her in
the case, Starling is sent to see the infamous cannibalistic
psychiatrist, Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins in a chilling performance), but
she is warned that Lecter is adept at playing mind games with others
and she mustn't tell him personal details. As Clarice comes closer and
closer to the killer's true identity, she is thrust into a deadly game
of cat and mouse with both Buffalo Bill and the sly Dr. Lecter. What truly sets this film apart from other horror/thrillers is the
performance of Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter, a man who is clearly
homicidal but not in an over-the-top fashion. Lecter is presented as
calm, cool, collected but still frightening in the sense of the fact we
know he is dangerous and has killed people, yet we are drawn to him
like Clarice and we are fascinated by his intelligence. This is a
clever device to present us as the viewers with a killer who terrifies
us mentally rather than being a raving maniac like Freddy or Jason.

******
3 February 2012
9
A number of Oscars and one of the more memorable psychopaths in
cinematic history render any banal positive reviews of The Silence of
the Lambs unnecessary. Therefore I will keep this brief and try to
throw in a chuckle or two.Silence of the Lambs is a masterpiece in characterisation and lean
filmmaking. If you think about it the characters portrayed are either
vital to the story or mere window-dressing, there are no in between
'sorta' supporting roles.This leaves rookie FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) free to
hunt a serial killer named Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine) on behalf of
senior FBI agent Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn). With the all important
support and guidance from super intelligent, clinical and fiendishly
complicated Hannibal 'the Cannibal' Lecter (Anthony Hopkins).Without Hannibal's input SotL might still be a solid FBI procedural
'go-geddim', it just wouldn't be near as memorable. Hannibal doesn't
display many other signs of normal body language, he remains bolt
upright and his arms and hands rarely move about. Hopkins' performance
is all eyes  a steely gaze during conversation changes instantly to a
wide eyed glare during times where 'you'd better listen'. His speech is
quick, clipped and crisp, though he hangs on to the last syllable of
every important sentence as if he's afraid that ending it won't allow
time for another.Even though Hopkins' screen time is very short he also gets all the
best lines and is the core of the most memorable sequences.After a perceived discourtesy to young Clarice enrages Hannibal he
throws her a bone and her investigation progresses more rapidly. Along
the way she learns more and more about Buffy B, and in a few solid
scenes so do the audience, most notably the oft parodied 'self
analysis' whilst wearing a lovely pink negligee.Clarice begins the film as a nervous rookie in a grown man's
environment, that of the testosterone dominated FBI ranks. She ends the
film a seasoned pro who has seen things that 99% of the population
couldn't possibly fathom.Without labouring on the plot developments the final sequence contains
a masterful misdirection that will shock and hook you in until the
closing credits, and even though we now know that the sequels didn't
really deliver you were definitely left wanting more of Hannibal at the
time.There are lots of close ups during dialogue scenes that demand that you
pay attention, and given the gory and disgusting subject matter Demme
wisely keeps a leash on the violence and macabre to save the impact for
the more important scenes near the end. He does though keep reminding
us of the thematic elements with the occasional head in a jar, skinsuit
or my favourite, the unnecessary throat-moth.I am not a director's aficionado. I subscribe more to the "I don't know
directing, but I know what I like" motif, that leads me to follow the
careers of certain guys more than others. But The Silence of the Lambs
is lean, mean and memorable and obviously exceptionally crafted.Final Rating  9 / 10. Very rarely do truly challenging films find both
commercial and critical success  especially if they contain
'unpleasant subject matter such as this. Silence of the Lambs managed
both, on top of all that it is still as strong and packs as much of a
punch some 20 years on.

******
22 November 2011
10
The Silence of the Lambs is easily one of the scariest thrillers to
ever come out of Hollywood. And one of the most disturbing films too.
It introduced on of the most iconic movie villains in cinematic
history, Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter played by Anthony Hopkins. This
is easily his best film role to date. Every time I see Anthony Hopkins
in other movies, I automatically think of Hannibal "The Cannibal"
Lecter. Jodie Foster was just outstanding for her role as the young FBI
trainee assigned to ask Lecter for help tracking down another serial
killer. Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster are a very good team. They
play their roles with outstanding convicting and believability. And
hands off to Ted Levine for his role as Jame Gumb, a.k.a. Buffalo Bill.
He also played his role with outstanding conviction. This movie is not
for the squeamish. And it will send chills down your spine. If you like
thrillers that are disturbing and scary, I recommend The Silence of the
Lambs. This movie is a very fine piece of filmmaking.

******
30 August 2011
9
what hasn't been said about this .. this surprise of a hit? Except
maybe my personal experience.Looking back, gotta tell you when I was in the theatre for this, I
wasn't ready for the depth of the dialogue. And that's a hit against
it's original power. Like in one of the main exchanges, when Jodie
utter Scream of the lambs - did I hear it right? While at this scene, a
current day film(even possibility back then) might have choose to
flashback --> and ruin the tension.Ther are many counterintuitive choices : the music that is ominous
classical; the quiet interpretation by Hopkins; Foster plays the
vulernabitity up as central character; the 2 villains. And don't think
there was any real chase scenes.So when I saw it again later, awake and aware, it was like watching
another movie almost.And how is that a remaster blu ray is not out for this???

******
15 July 2011
9
Silence of the lambs is easily one of the best thrillers that i have
ever seen. The weaving of the plot and characters by Thomas Harris is
simply superb. The story gives a peep into the minds of the hardcore
psychopaths.The play of anagrams, the creepy tones and dialogs of Hannibal Lecher
are too good to miss. No wonder the character of Anthony Hopkins is
considered as one of the best ever in any cinemas. He has given justice
to his role. The naming and characterization of another character
'Buffalo Bill' is so famous that the name has become a part of pop
culture.A FBI trainee in pursuit of finding a serial killer takes help of a
doctor-turned-psychopath in her pursuit. What happens afterward is the
games of wit and will. Too good to miss!!

******
23 February 2011
10
I wonder....I see Jodie Foster so many times in the film, to the point that her
presence begins to really annoy me. The real star of the film is Ted
Levine who didn't win anything at all. All the hard work he put into
the character of Jamie Gumb a.k.a. Buffalo Bill went to waste. In short Ted Levine was robbed blind.His portrayal of the character is very realistic. When he expresses his
anguish and frustration to Catherine Martin that is the greatest scene
in the film. Another scene is where he is in the nude and showing of
his dress, wearing lipstick and blush and exclaiming,"I'd f*ck me! I'd
f*ck me really hard!" The background score to the scene is also
excellent.The other star is of course Sir Anthony Hopkins. But his
characterization is dangerously misleading. Cannibals are passive. They
never show emotion or anger and are quite normal-looking. It is this
trait that enables them to fool their unsuspecting victim. In Michael
Mann's film Manhunter, Brian Cox played Dr. Hannibal Lecktor
beautifully. He was exceedingly soft spoken and polite. His victims
were beautiful women who lured with his CHARM.Now Anthony Hopkins portrayed his version as rude, arrogant and
psychotic. Any Hollywood actor could perform what Hopkins did in the
film. Take for example actors: Jack Nicholson, W. Forsythe, Brian
Dennehy, Willem Dafoe, Ed Harris etc. The list is endless....The reason why the film succeeds is mainly due to the clever direction
by Jonathan Demme, photography By Tak Fujimoto and excellent music by
Howard Shore. With these three in combination anything is possible.List Of Serial Killer Movies: Manhunter(based on Red Dragon) 1986, To
Catch A Killer 1992 TV, Dahmer (2002), The Secret Life of Jeffrey
Dahmer (1993), The Gray Man (2007), Resurrection (1999), Bone Daddy
(1997), Albert Fish (2007), Marian Dora's Cannibal (2005), Deranged
(1974), Jack The Ripper, Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer (1986), and
H. H. Holmes: America's First Serial Killer (2004).Email me Vivekmaru45@yahoo.com for more moviez list.

******
31 January 2011
10
I watched this movie with my mom about a few months ago . . . And let
me just say I was floored! I liked it, very intense & creepy,
especially Anthony Hopkins as Dr. Lecter . . . that mask . . . that
voice . . . "Closer, please. Closer" . . . , as well as the chemistry
between him and Jodie Foster as Clarice . . . no wonder people are
still terrified! There are parts that may make one cringe, particularly
scenes with Ted Levine as Buffalo Bill . . . but that is the whole
point of the film . . . it's supposed to scare you! But not in the way
one might think! Yet if you have seen it, there's one thing that makes
you wonder: What would the BAU team of "Criminal Minds" think of these
two killers? I can only imagine . . . wow!!!! Anyways, when I watched
this film, I was stock still whenever Dr. Lecter appeared on screen
(really!) He's downright scary. So . . . to bring this review to a
close, I liked this film overall. But that brings me to one last
question, movie fans, to quote Dr. Lecter: "You wake up sometimes,
don't you? Wake up in the dark, and hear the screaming of the lambs?"

******
10 March 2010
10
"Oh, he's a psychopath...." exclaims Baltimore asylum boss Dr. Chilton
(Heald) to both us and our lead as we get first wind of a certain
imprisoned madman who'll hopefully help both her, and the agency she
works for in the F.B.I., catch a killer at large. The first time we
arrive at said psychopath's cell, it is en route through many-a door
and corridor as Chilton describes in a chaotic and disorientating
nature the rules which come with interacting with this beast  a final
warning as the screen, drenched in blood red lighting, when a
photograph of a deformed nurse harmed only recently by the inmate is
displayed to her. The key item being that we do not see the picture,
and along with all the hustling build up, must come to our own
conclusions about the imminent interaction. Build up such as the above
aids in making the man feel as if he's present more in the film than in
actuality.Such a sequence, or chain of events, goes a long way in capturing
everything that makes The Silence of the Lambs so effective, that sense
of talking about something and building it up rather than out-and-out
showing it. The common place is that the first thing you jump to when
talking about the film is the particular character the above dialogue
refers to, and how their presence is both so very fascinating as well
as rather frightening. The fact the film balances this well enough with
everything else so that as to avoid ultimately overwhelm the film is an
achievement. That character is of course a certain Hannibal Lecter, an
individual played by Anthony Hopkins in what is a highly praised
performance for his portrayal of the man, a victim of countless spoofs;
references and imitations since. Lecter is both foil and mentor; both
anti-hero and a (not THE) villain, psychotic enough to have previously
killed and maimed, but smart enough to identify when genuinely coming
across as helpful to a cause might aid in his own intentions. There is
a degree of irony in the fact F.B.I. chief Jack Crawford (Glenn)
attempts to exploit the mind of Lecter so much that his desperation
forces him to turn to a young female rookie, something that ultimately
stirs Hannibal's creative juices enough so that he may carry out what
eventually happens in the film.When our lead, a certain Clarice Starling (Foster), arrives at a
heavily guarded entrance, the film is constructed through Starling's
point of view as we observe security screens; an armed guard plus his
arsenal of shotguns as well as heavily fortified steel doors protecting
this little area all by itself stand tall, all before settling on the
welcoming tone of an orderly named Barney. The film's first interaction
between them plays out, and the film toys with all the prior material
in having Lecter demand he have a "closer" look at her identification.
But despite Lecter, it is lead Clarice Starling whom drives the film;
heading on out into her own arc of self discovery within a circular
journey; all the while with the slow burning memories and tragedies of
years of old eating away at the back of her mind. Whilst the leads
ponder Lecter as a tool, key for burrowing into a certain Buffalo Bill
(Levine), a slight nickname for a serial killer in operation, it is
Lecter that provides the burrowing into Starling and her own past for
sake of us that proves just as interesting.Most of the latter half of Starling's past, that is to say her
childhood, reveals a sense of desperation to aid the helpless or a
violent reaction to slaughter and murder and an aching lust to reject
it in helping those that are victims of it. This, combined with her
father and both his role and his fate, help in fleshing Starling out
and getting to understand why it is what she is, something a little
more than a nameless; faceless protagonist detective hired to take care
of whatever case because the demands of that genre implore it. If
American films of the action, thriller or detective ilk produced in the
1980s fed off an idea of the male lead and their body being put through
a grinding process of harm and hurt, then The Silence of the Lambs toys
with this in its opening segment when a yet to be identified Starling
huffs and puffs her way through an assault course in rural nowhere,
putting her body through the established test before someone intervenes
and sends her on her way to an assignment which will ultimately lead
her on her quest. Progressively, the film develops Starling as the
agent she will become; observing tiny details such as having her
describe what she correctly assumes Buffalo Bill to look like, a scene
after we observe him for the first time in swiping his next victim.The tie that binds Starling's world both inside and outside of the
F.B.I. academy is a degree of sexism and individualism; exemplified
when male trainees gaze at her as she jogs past but also when she is
surrounded in an elevator early on, the colours of the occupants'
jerseys getting across a sense of alienation. This, as Chilton's futile
flirting plays out at the asylum; a moth expert's advances are rejected
and an additional sense of astonishment contained within by local law
enforcers when she orders out a room full of them whom are relegated to
having to bear it occur. The text is aware of both its lead character's
strength and gender, providing a number of instances in which the
danger of getting knocked back down because of both role and gender is
made aware but always rejected. The film is a powerful, well observed
pot boiler as detectives race against time and a fascinating third
element in Lecter ominously plans and ploys. In combining narrative
with character study, Demme has created something remarkable.

******
4 March 2010
9
Have the lambs stop screaming,Clarice??Only Clarice can answer the
question & the one who watches this movie.Packed with action & lot of
thrill.The best thriller movie of the 90's.Mind blowing performance
from Anthony Hopkins(Dr Lector) & Jodie Foster(Clarice).Both deserved
an Oscar & rightfully got it.Great performance too from Ted Levine(as
Bill).This is the movie showing what serial killers are made of.Deep
insight into FBI & crime psychology.Though i have seen Hannibal & The
Red Dragon.But this is way better compared to the rest.Deserved a 8.7
rating.You have to watch it yourself just for the sheer brilliance of
Anthony Hopkins & the maturity shown by Jodie Foster.Will Clarice be
able to save another victim from the hands of Wild Bill??& what about
Lector,what becomes of him??You need to watch this movie.But just be
wary of the fact,if you get too obsessed with this-"Believe me, you
don't want Hannibal Lecter inside your head".

******
22 January 2010
10
The acting is brilliant! Especially Dr.Lecter played by Sir Anthony
Hopkins. He's absolutely the best movie's villain I have ever seen.
Although he was just in the movie for less than 17 minutes, Dr.Lector
will scared you to death. Believe me, you'll never want to meet him
during waiting for the bus or in the elevator. And Jodie Foster did a
fantastic job in Clarice, an FBI cadet who tried to catch a murderous
serial killer. To do that, she had to face Dr.Lector, an even more
murderous and psychotic killer. She maybe one of the bravest heroes
I've ever seen, along with Indiana Jones (who maybe better, I don't
know...). Dr.Lector and Clarice are unforgettable and haunted. You'll
never forget them...And I have have to say about the direction too. Jonathan Demme deserved
his Oscar. For making his audiences' heart to jump out many times. This
movie should be considered as a horror. Because the way it was made and
directed made it even more scary than a normal horror. Trust me, you'll
want to watch it twice. And if you like this film, I also recommend
Mysery and The Game. Have fun with your watching!

******
16 December 2009
10
An extremely clever and sophisticated thriller that is aware of its own
absurdities and never loses its balance between subtlety and excess.
The narrative moves swiftly to accommodate a rather uncomfortable
storyline (there isn't a false note on either script or direction), the
pace and characters give it an extra vigour (Anthony Hopkins's
performance as Dr Lecter is chillingly mannered), and the movie treats
psychopathology with a genuinely perversive delight. It is also probably the only shocker that serves as a credible
sociological comment. In other words, an undisputed masterpiece.

******
30 November 2009
9
A tough thriller, and also very famous at that. I had read the novel
before I watched the film itself, so I can compare. The movie seemed to
me somewhat inferior as compared with the book when I saw it the first
time, I found it oversimplified. But then I changed my mind: actually
it’s the best production of such a complex novel one can ever make. As
I know there’s a prequel to this story called "The Red Dragon", and a
sequel, called "Hannibal".The name is not casual, since professor Hannibal Lector is one of the
most notorious characters ever known in the history of the cinema. The
actor got an Oscar for the role plus the highest gift of the English
Crown – a knighthood. All the same it’s too little, I would have given
him ten Oscars and twenty knighthoods. His phrase about "chianti"
really makes a blow even after so many years when I first watched this
film.

******
1 November 2009
10
In the movie, Silence of the Lambs, the FBI is trying to catch serial
killers and learn how his mind works. The FBI sends a trainee, Agent
Clarice Starling, who is played by Jodi Foster, to interview the
infamous, Dr. Hannibal Lecter, who is played by Anthony Hopkins. Lecter
is a cannibalistic psychiatrist. The FBI's beliefs are it takes one to
know one, speaking of Lecter, knowing how the serial killer mind works,
in order to catch Buffalo Bill. Buffalo Bill is murdering women across
the country. The theme develops as Lecter agrees to help only if
Starling will feed his morbid curiosity about her own personal life.
The director uses memory flashbacks to illustrate Starling's demons. As
Lecter forces her to face her own demons in life, she begins to realize
how diabolical Lecter is and how bad evil can be. Lecter gets in her
mind, in her thoughts, and the evil is so strong she does not think she
can stop it. Along with Lecter getting into Starling's thoughts, she
gets into his mind as well. Lecter has a chance to kill her and doesn't
and he even calls her in the end to congratulate her on graduating from
school to become an FBI agent. Being one of the scariest movies ever
put into film Silence of the Lambs, keeps you on the edge of your seat
for the duration of the film. Unlike many scary movies there is little
gore and shock value instances, there is more of the thought of real
evil, things that really go bump in the night. The director, Jonathan
Demee, uses several things to keep the viewer interested in the movie,
to keep you wandering when something is going to occur. The movie keeps
its intensiveness because of the lighting, off camera sound effects,
and the design of the sets. Some specific examples start right from the
beginning such as the music as Sterling walks to the cell of Lecter is
intense making the viewer feel like something is going to happen as she
walks. The laughing and yelling of the prisons as she walks away put
off a nervous feeling making the viewer feel like they are there. The
lighting in the prison is dark and dreary; the brick walls make it seem
lonely and cold. There is rust on the heater making it seem unattended
to. Lecter's dialogue is very well developed with his eyes so intense,
so cold, evil, again keeping your full attention to the movie, making
references to the way he ate his victims. The camera angels in close
when there are conversations with Hannibal, The lighting is above him
to put shadows on his face making him appear more evil. These types of
preludes to the way the movie is going to unfold continue throughout
the movie, making sure the viewer is on edge, scared, and nervous
throughout the duration of the movie like the intense music during the
abduction of the women. This movie reminds me a lot of the movie "Kiss
the Girls" with Morgan Freeman and Ashley Judd, in it. The theme is
similar as to serial killers abducting woman and a psychologist helping
the police find the man who did it. In Kiss the Girls, Ashley Judd is
the psychologist and she gets abducted, once she escapes she helps the
police with the search, in turn finding another series of abductions
further away with a similar signature. Both movies are suspenseful
thrillers, although the director in Silence of the Lambs is much more
successful in making the movie horrifying than the director of Kiss the
Girls. He makes you scared, clenching to your seat, and makes you feel
as though you are their.

******
31 October 2009
9
Braden Williamson Assignment 5-5 HUMN 246The Silence of the Lambs has gradually become one the highest acclaimed
thriller/horror films ever made. The film goes beyond the typical blood
and gore of most horror movies, using dialogue and subjective camera
angles to draw the viewer closer to the suspense. When Clarice Starling
(Jodie Foster) is interviewing Hannibal Lector (Anthony Hopkins), the
subjective camera angle makes the viewer feel as if they are in
Starling's place and staring into the face of a psychopath. This
cinematography makes the film feel like it has a first person
perspective. The angles and subjective viewpoints also illustrate what
it is like for Starling in a male-dominated profession.The theme of The Silence of the Lambs is facing your fear. It faces the
fear that Clarice has of the lambs that she hears in her head, the fear
she has that she won't be able to save Buffalo Bill's captive,
Catherine. There is also the fear that is felt when Lector or Buffalo
Bill merely appears on the screen. The theme ultimately climaxes when
everything is seen through Bill's night vision lenses and the audience
is on the edge of their seats as Clarice may or may not meet her
demise. Although Hopkins and Foster are both A-list Hollywood actors, they both
have an organic, real world demeanor about them which make the story
much more believable because it feels like a real FBI agent is talking
to an actual criminal instead of a starlet talking with a playboy. The
on location scenes that were used for a majority of the film, according
to the documentary that accompanied the film, made the FBI
headquarters, the psychiatric facility and even Bill's home feel like
actual landmarks in a serial killer's rampage. Nothing makes a movie
feel more authentic and real than rough-grain film stock. The color of
the film was not too bright, and with the shadows and lighting to keep
the mood drab, dull, and depressing the film was able to really develop
effectively.The subjective camera angles, dark mood, and lighting set a tone that
has made The Silence of the Lambs the great film that it is. Before
this film was released horror films used physical suspense to scare the
audience but Lambs takes the physical suspense and raises it to new
heights by reinforcing it with suspense built simply through the
dialogue between Lector and Starling. Many films since this one have
tried to add multiple layers of depth in order to make the movie better
but more times than not, it just isn't applicable to the film. Fear is
something that is always around us but we try our best to avoid it, The
Silence of the Lambs takes fear and forces us to examine the worst
types of people through an empathetic view. This is what makes it such
a great fil

******
24 October 2009
10
The Silence of the lambs, the best picture winner of 1991, deserved it.
It deserved the praise it got. Everyone of it's Oscars that it won
deserved it. Especially Anthony Hopkins in his best performance ever.
He was so evil and brilliant any time I see him in a movie(like in
Fracture) I think he is going to bite someone. He is that good. Jodie
Foster deserved the Oscar that she got too. The Silence of the lambs is
all around fantastic. Foster stars as FBI agent Clarise Starling. Her job is to get help from
a psychopath named Hannibal Lector(Played amazingly by Anthony
Hopkins)to help track down another serial killer named Buffalo Bill(Ted
Levine) who kidnaps people and literally skins them. He even kidnaps a
politician's daughter.The Silence of the lambs is deranged and great. Buffalo Bill of course
don't got nothing on Lecter. But even he is frightening as hell because
he... I don't know. The Silence of the lambs is very disturbing. I
can't believe it has taken me this long to write a review. Now
Hollywood, listen to me and listen to me good. Don't you ever,ever
remake The Silence of the lambs. You have already messed up Halloween
and others. Stay away from this movie. There are some movies that
should never be remade. I thought Halloween was one because that is my
all time favorite scary movie. Many movies shouldn't be remade. Please
leave The Silence of the lambs alone. The Silence of the lambs:****/****

******
19 October 2009
10
This movie is probably flawless. The story of the relationship between
convicted cannibal Hannibal Lector and FBI trainee Clarice Starling is
dark, creepy, and exceptionally well acted. Hannibal Lector, played to
perfection by Anthony Hopkins, is movie villain that you will remember
long after the movie is over. He only has 16 minutes of screen-time,
but he commands every minute of it. The parts of the movie that he is
not in still entertain, with Jodie Foster's great acting keeping you
interested. This movie also has amazing dialouge, clearly the
screenwriter new what he was doing. This is an amazing movie,worthy of
all its Oscars, and one that i would recommend to anyone.

******
7 September 2009
10
This is one of those films I wished I had seen for the first time on
the big screen. Its greatness shines through wherever you watch it but
the experience of watching it on the big screen must be breathtaking. I
never tire of watching this film because it is utterly compelling from
the the start and had my complete attention. There are some really
dangerous and disturbed people out there in the real world but this
film graphically reminds us that some of them are extremely intelligent
and capable of virtually anything. The Silence of the Lambs is not full
of violence and gore although there is some but it is the suspense and
the tension and the quality of the way the story unfolds which lifts it
out of the ordinary. For me this film is perfection and everyone who
sees it will probably describe how uncomfortable they feel when
watching it. I don't think everyone will like the film but I cannot
imagine anyone not being affected by it in one way or another. Please
watch this film and you will understand why.

******
22 August 2009
10
There is a fine line of similarity between Jonathan Demme's "The
Silence of the Lambs" and Alfred Hitchcock's iconic thriller "Psycho."
They were both notorious upon initial release for their surprising
amount of violent and off-putting content that ultimately proved too
much for some people and they are both incredible, visionary
masterpieces. Demme's film, based on a very good book by Thomas Harris,
is not only one of the creepiest films I've ever seen, but it's one of
the two or three best horror films I've ever seen. It's frightening,
it's unforgettably creepy, it's off-putting, but it's also well-acted,
works around a terrific story and premise, and is overall, a great
movie.Purist fans of the original book by Harris will not be disappointed,
for Demme's film follows the novel almost religiously step by step and
sometimes quote for quote. Jodie Foster won her second Academy Award
for her portrayal of an FBI trainee after a serial killer nicknamed
Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine) who skins his victims, and uses the
psychological genius of a cannibalistic serial killer behind bars, Dr.
Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) to track him down before his latest
victim's skinless body winds up in another river.Let me state off the bat that personally, I am not a fan of the horror
genre and knowing that Gene Siskel himself was quite appalled by the
film, I was a little cautious going into "The Silence of the Lambs."
But I am so glad I did. I was freaked out, I was on the edge of my seat
half the time, and there are some images in the film that I really
don't care for, but underneath all of the frightening subtext, there
was a true, beautiful masterpiece and a terrific story to keep me
interested.Unlike a truly awful horror film I recently saw, "Mirrors" (2008), "The
Silence of the Lambs" is not all blood-and-guts and no story. In fact,
there's only five or six really creepy and gruesome moments in the
movie and they are wisely spaced apart from each other so that the
filmmakers and actors can work on developing the plot and the mystery,
which is far more engaging. It's not just one brutal killing after
another, which really gets tiresome. It's an engaging example of
storytelling, but for those who love scary movies, you will not be
disappointed, either.Apart from having a well-written story, "The Silence of the Lambs" has
terrific characters and a great cast to boast about as well. The best
performance in the film is Jodie Foster's, who is hands-down
sympathetic and brilliant as the struggling FBI agent whose on this
mission not to prove herself to her boss (Scott Glenn), but to save a
young woman's life from the hands of a sick-minded monster. One of the
few problems I had with the book was that I didn't like the Clarice
Starling character; she seemed too vulgar and dislikable to me and more
self-centered. I liked Foster's interpretation more because she
generates the sympathy and remorse that an audience goes after. Quit
the contrast to Anthony Hopkins's character.Although he is a versatile actor capable of doing a great many other
movies, this is the film that Anthony Hopkins is most remembered as and
that's simply because next to or even above Norman Bates by Anthony
Perkins, he's the most disturbing villain ever put on screen. Hopkins's
entire performance is a brilliant visualization of what Thomas Harris
dreamed up while writing the original books after hour upon hour of
studying real-life serial killers and psychopaths. Hopkins speaks of a
voice that's only uncannily familiar to his natural tone, he seldom
blinks, he oftentimes stands perfectly still, and works with these
well-written lines conceived by Harris and adapted by the screenwriter
to present a disgusting, horrific monster of a man who does not serve
as a role model and something that the audience fears and turns away
from. We do not even see Hopkins for a good chunk of the way in and we
spend the first part of the movie anticipating his arrival, preparing
for this man who killed and then ate people for reasons nobody can
really understand. A great strength of "The Silence of the Lambs" is
that it does not make likable characters out of serial killers.
Hannibal Lecter and Buffalo Bill, by contrast, are sick, conniving, and
savage whom you do not want to come within a mile of.But again, the movie is not ABOUT the fact that Hannibal Lecter eats
people and Buffalo Bill skins people and it does not lead up to these
moments. It's not ABOUT the notoriously shocking thrills. Many horror
films today arethey follow it almost as if it were a formula. But "The
Silence of the Lambs" is an exception. The thrills are used as they
should beas a service to the story that's being told. They strengthen
it, rather than consume it.

******
21 August 2009
10
Before 1991 horror movies were less about psychology and more about the
actual killing and monsters. The Silence of the Lambs changed the
genre.The story starts with our main hero, Clarice Staling (Jodie Foster), a
novice FBI enforcer, being sent by her boss to an asylum, where she
must talk to one of the most ruthless serial killers  Hannibal Lecter
(Anthony Hopkins). His alternate name, "Hannibal the Cannibal", sums up
why he is so notorious. Dr. Lecter apparently has some information
regarding Buffalo Bill, another serial killer, who gained his name
because of his sick "tradition" of skinning his victims, all women, and
who, unlike Hannibal, is on the loose. Clarice must find out where Bill
is and stop him.Jodie Foster is great as Clarice, playing the role of an average woman,
who has wanted justice since she was little, when her father was killed
by two thugs.But the forte point of the movie is Anthony Hopkins, who won an Oscar
for the role, the shortest Oscar-winning performance in cinema history.
He's screen time is about 20 minutes, but the impression is beyond
powerful. He managed to show both sides of Hanibal Lecter  the gentle,
calm and yet diabolical Hannibal and the monster.Ted Levine, who played Buffalo Bill, never got the same reputation that
Foster and Hopkins got, despite giving life to a twisted freak.The movie is part horror, part psychological thriller. Clarice is
trying to do the impossible, while the clock is tickingThe Silence of
the Lambs is an absolute masterpiece, recommended to all cinema fans.Final Score: 5/5 or 10/10

******
12 July 2009
10
I'm going to try to be brief with this write-up, since almost everyone
can already agree that Silence Of The Lambs succeeds as a nail-biting
thriller, one of the best examples of ensemble acting in modern cinema,
and more simply as a brilliant motion picture. I won't be able to add
much on that front, certainly.However, Silence Of The Lambs is most truly notable for being the only
genuine horror film to ever win a Best Picture Oscar. Now, I'm not one
to consider this a particularly profound achievement, since I have
almost never agreed with the choices of the Academy in regards to their
silly statuettes (this one being a rare exception). But, the nomination
and victory of Silence Of The Lambs is also a victory for the horror
genre, a much maligned and at times unfairly targeted film
classification that has been deemed damaging by the moral powers that
be. It may be going too far to say that the recognition of SOTL is an
acknowledgment that horror films can be accepted as art (especially
since most fans would argue that landmark films like Dawn Of The Dead,
Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and Halloween proved that distinction a full
decade before), but it certainly speaks volumes about horror's
acceptance into mainstream culture and bridges the gap between decades
where genre films opened on a meager amount of screens and our current
climate, where horror films routinely top the box office upon their
release.It's also worth noting that SOTL is the one film largely inspired by
the infamous tale of real-life sicko Ed Gein that doesn't tout this
inspiration. This is further ironic since Silence Of The Lambs is a
much more accurate visualization of Gein's deeds that the two most
famous films that are historically viewed as on-screen representations
of elements of the Gein story, Psycho and Texas Chainsaw Massacre.
Since nearly any horrific deed a writer of the macabre can conjure has
likely happened through the course of real events (or be found in the
writings of Poe and Shakespeare, for that matter), it's unlikely that
the film-makers were unaware of the connection between Gein and Jame
Gumb, but their distancing actually serves the film, because we become
singularly focused on Gumb instead of comparing his work to Gein's
(even though I just did so here... I'm definitely overthinking this,
and I'm already being way more long-winded than I was intending).So, awards and all that crap are definitely nice, but the true impact
of Silence Of The Lambs must come from the film itself, and not from
any historical or achievement-based standpoint. In that regard, SOTL
must be considered one of the most classy, well acted, and generally
terrifying horror films of all time.Every performance in this film serves as a defining role for the
players, and though all eyes are deservedly on Anthony Hopkins'
textbook perfect essay of Hannibal Lecter, I'd rather spend my two
minutes here saying publicly that Ted Levine delivers by far the most
nuanced and well-realized screen portrayal of a serial killer ever put
to film. This is especially impressive considering how little
screen-time Levine has in the film, and every moment spent developing
his character adds a new layer to his twisted and complex
megalomaniacal portrait of the sickness that dwells within humans on
this planet filled with as much self-loathing and everyone
else-loathing as Jame Gumb. Amazingly, despite the truly horrific deeds
we seem him commit, he remains a sympathetic character, and Levine's
portrayal is so precise that we always see the loneliness and misery
that permeates this dejected predator between his bouts of
pathos-seeking rage.The word "masterpiece" doesn't come from this keyboard lightly, but
Silence Of The Lambs is simply a perfect film, and not only the best
picture of 1991, but one of the best of all time. If you are reading
this entry because you agree with that assessment, then I thank you for
celebrating one of my favorite films with me. However, if you are
genuinely seeking out information on SOTL because you haven't seen it,
then the preceding minutes you spent reading this are only delaying you
from experiencing this incredible film for yourself. Since you should
have stopped reading this several paragraphs ago and just started
watching the thing, I won't keep you any longer.

******
7 June 2009
10
I don't think a movie has really been so effective in shocking the hell
out of the audience. So let's be frank: movies like "The Silence of the
Lambs" don't usually win very big awards, let alone Oscars (in all five
of the major categories, no less, making it only the third film in
history to do so).With gruesome scenes of murder, autopsies and cannibalism, it's hard to
imagine "The Silence of the Lambs" winning Best Picture at the Oscars,
not to mention heaps of praise and topping numerous "best" lists since
its release. "The Silence of the Lambs" has also become a bona-fide
cinematic and pop culture icon, introducing two of the most memorable
characters in cinema history.The film, an adaptation of the novel by Thomas Harris, concerns the
FBI's hunt for a particularly brutal serial killer, "Buffalo Bill" (the
creepy Ted Levine), who skins his victims, mostly plus-sized women, for
reasons that are too gruesome to be repeated here. The FBI puts a young
trainee on the case, Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster), and they have
her, in turn, interview the deadly Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony
Hopkins), a cunning psychopath who remains under tight lock and key at
a hospital for the criminally insane. Lecter offers to help Clarice in
developing a psychological profile in order to help capture "Buffalo
Bill," in exchange for her confiding in him, some of her darkest and
most troubling childhood memories."The Silence of the Lambs" is not a film for the squeamish; I already
mentioned why. But even for its scenes of grisly carnage, it's not a
horror film, nor an exploitation picture that revels in scenes of
outlandish gore. Instead, the real terror is more psychological: we
rely on the reactions of the characters for the effect. It's a
technique that director Jonathan Demme found to be quite satisfactory
(it was also put to effective use in the equally disturbing, and
commanding serial killer thriller, "Seven," four years later in 1995).
Another technique that Demme put to great work here was having his
actors stare directly into the camera, allowing us to become
uncomfortably intimate with the on-screen action.I'm not really a fan of Jodie Foster or Anthony Hopkins, really, but
their work here is nothing short of legendary. Foster is stunning as
the young FBI trainee Clarice Starling, an attractive but commanding
young woman who, it seems, is an adult child still reeling it in from
some deeply-seeded childhood traumas, and it is through her work on the
"Buffalo Bill" case and her meetings with Hannibal Lecter that she
seems to be able to get a chance to deal with her troubled past and get
some closure. Hopkins is equally commanding as the manipulative
"Hannibal the Cannibal," who is able to probe the mind of his young
interviewee with disturbing efficiency and ease, to satisfy his own
twisted curiosities that I don't think are ever really explained
(that's a good thing - it makes him even scarier). These truly are, two
of the most phenomenal performances in a movie that is a phenomenon
upon itself."The Silence of the Lambs" is purely the greatest and most terrifying
thriller I've seen. However, my personal favorite thriller of all time
remains "Seven." But the contributions that "The Silence of the Lambs"
made to the thriller genre, and motion picture history, are not to be
overlooked. If it weren't for this film, I don't think I would've
gotten "Seven" all those years ago."The Silence of the Lambs" was recently named the greatest thriller of
all time in Britain.I'll be hard-pressed to find a reason to disagree with that assertion.10/10

******
9 March 2009
9
"A census taker once tried to test me. I ate his liver with some fava
beans and a nice chianti" What more could encapsulate the psychotic nature of this charged
thriller? Silence of the Lambs follows Clarice Starling's FBI investigation into
a string of sadistic murders by a killer known as 'Buffalo Bill'. A
break-through in the case can only be found through the interrogation
of the brilliant yet outlandishly insane confined psychologist,
Hannibal 'The Cannibal' Lecter. Hannibal will only provide the
information in exchange for Clarice to tell him about her own personal
life which acts as the fantastic foundation for the title of this
lucrative masterpiece.The story was structured and shot perfectly. The film was constantly
charged with suspense and tension, littered with thought-provoking
dialogue oozing with intrigue. The performances were just awe-inspiring
as the academy acknowledge. Anthony Hopkins was simply chilling as the
twisted, genius that is Hannibal Lecter. Chills also arise through Ted
Levine's frightening invention of the character of Buffalo Bill. Levine
should have notched up a nomination for a best supporting actor at the
Oscars due to the performance's flawless ability to chill and disturb.
Also, Foster can not be forgotten as she played the multi-faceted
character of Clarice Starling. Foster conjures an awesome balance of
emotion to flawlessly invent the character of Clarice.Overall, Silence of the Lambs is engaging, disturbing, chilling and
holds it's ground as one of the greatest thrillers of all time.

******
30 May 2008
8
Jodie Foster is very good in this. Sir Anthony Hopkins is very good in
this. The film is dark, with the odd bit of humour thrown in. There are
scenes in this film that shock and scare even the most hardened of
people. Some moments get me every single time.Buffalo Bill is terrifying, and yet intriguing, as he isn't the
old-fashioned slasher that one is used to seeing when hearing the
phrase, "serial killer." The film keeps you interested throughout, and
the conclusion is satisfying, but the ending, and the enormous depth of
the characters leave you wanting more.Some of the scenes in this film are iconic, and will live on in the
memories of film fans for generations to come. A thoroughly enjoyable,
dark thriller, with moments of pure suspense, and a carefully
thought-out story.

******
24 February 2008
9
This is a classic horror movie right from the start. Usually movies
take about 20 years before becoming a classic, but not Silence of the
Lambs. This movie has a very complex storyline but that works to its
advantage. The music is not really eerie, but thats what makes it SO
eerie. Hannibal Lecter is VERY WELL played by Anthony Hopkins. He is so
evil, so sneaky, he tops most other movie villains. His mere stare is
enough to make someone tremble. Everyone who stands in his way seems to
have bad luck come to them. Hannibal is the most sophisticated, evil,
possibly bi-polar cannibal to ever grace the big screen. 17 years
later, this movie hasn't become any less eerie. My only complaint was
Jody Foster, she did play Clarice very well but was sometimes over the
top and seems to fall out of character a little. Unfortunately, since
she's the main character, it was enough to knock this movie down a
star. But this movie is still near perfect. Recommend to everyone who
wants a good crime/horror movie. Fans of Se7en will most likely enjoy
this. 9/10.

******
16 February 2008
8
Few crime films seem to transcend their genre. "Silence of the Lambs"
is one of them. With incredible characters and careful, thoughtful
direction, it's not a complete surprise that this film is among the
many elite that call themselves Academy Award winning best pictures.The film centers around Clarice Starling (Jodi Foster), an FBI trainee
that essentially because of being young and feminine, gets assigned to
work with a serial killer: the infamous Hannibal Lecter, one of the
most chilling villains of all time played by Sir Anthony Hopkins.
Eventually she finds herself thrust into another serial murder case
involving "Buffalo Bill" and must seek the nutty Lecter's advice in
order to solve it.Starling and her struggle to ward off the sexist world of that
surrounds her in this field is the film's centerpiece. Director
Jonathan Demme does a great job focusing on Foster's strengths: her
facial expressions, her constant nervousness knowing that this will
make or break the career to which she aspires. Demme also does a great
job making it clear, but not too overtly so, how the men in the film
eerily gravitate toward her in every situation. It's bothering, but the
fact that she is indeed the film's hero makes it somewhat empowering.While little attention was paid to "Buffalo Bill," an interesting
character with a powerful metaphor and comparison to Starling in Thomas
Harris' book, the focus is substituted with full attention to Lecter's
scenes and his role becomes more pivotal in the film, which is clearly
worth it given Hopkins' talent. It is then more about how he affects
Starling and how they work together and form a unique relationship. It
is unfortunate both could not be stronger, but there's is no arguing
with the strength of this screenplay."Silence of the Lambs" is not the kind of film that will move you, but
it is an excellent example of how great characters can take an ordinary
serial murder plot and make it something more than just a genre film.~Steven CVisit my site: http://moviemusereviews.com

******
15 January 2008
10
One of the things that strikes me whenever I watch 'Silence of the
Lambs' again is how different Jodie Foster looks at various points in
the movie. I don't know if this is deliberate or just the way her face
comes across when filmed from different angles and with different
lighting. At the risk of sounding as though I'm only focusing on her
physical appearance, she sometimes appears radiantly beautiful, other
times cute in a tomboy-ish way, and sometimes downright unattractive. I
mention this because there are a number of quirky details in 'Silence
of the Lambs' that one only picks up on with repeated viewings, and
they all fall together in such a casual, unforced way that it's easy to
believe they just happened. But no film turns out this well by
accident. The director, Jonathan Demme, might have gotten lucky with
one or two shots but I have to believe nearly everything in this movie
was calculated to create the exact effect each renders. Anthony Hopkins
had, prior to 'Lambs,' never been a favorite actor of mine. I was never
particularly impressed with him in any role. In fact, it would be hard
to think of one part that Hopkins was really identified with. But if
ever the actor and the character and the moment came together in
perfect realization, it was in this film. Hopkins grasps the
complexities of Hannibal Lecter and presents them in such a way that it
is now impossible to think of one and not the other. Just as Thomas
Harris does in his books, Lecter is on film depicted as a cannibalistic
madman but so much more than that; he is polite, resourceful,
intolerant of most other criminals, tasteful, sophisticated... not to
mention a genius. Given what Hannibal has done in the past and has
every intention of doing in the future, his character would seem the
most unlikely to appear even slightly sympathetic to the audience. And
yet he does. Clarice Starling is a more straightforward character,
easier to figure out, but Jodie Foster embodies her in a similar way.
She is single-minded, on an almost holy quest to achieve success as an
FBI agent, to rescue the helpless and imprison the guilty. She pushes
herself relentlessly though Starling is not typically reflective unless
forced into it by Lecter. When he tells her during their first meeting,
"You're so ambitious, aren't you?", he has her nailed, dead to rights.
Over the course of the film, Hannibal Lecter begins to display other
qualities that almost qualify as superhuman. He is immensely strong. He
can apparently control and manipulate his body's functions to create
false readings. He seems at times capable of both telepathy and
empathy. Nothing supernatural is suggested, only such finely-honed
skills of observation and reasoning that not even the smallest detail
escapes his notice. And most importantly, he never fails at anything he
sets out to do. By the end of the film, one is convinced Lecter could
have escaped from that jail cell anytime he wanted. In fact, his escape
from the cage in Memphis is so improbable that in retrospect it borders
on magic. For everything to have happened in the order it did and with
the precise timing it needed to happen beggars belief, to say the
least. And yet it is so well-staged, and we are so convinced by this
point that Hannibal is perfectly capable of pulling it off, the
audience never questions it.

******
12 January 2008
9
What can you say about "The Silence Of The Lambs"? Well,...it won several Oscars.it's in the top 250.it has amazing acting.it combines several of today's greatest actors.it has a creepy score.the story is believable and horrifying.Anthony Hopkins' character gave me nightmares because of this movie,
and i stopped watching any of his movies for a while. The personality of the character 'Buffalo' Bill made me very
overprotective of all the women in my family.After reading all this, you might wonder, is it good? No, it's not
good. IT'S GREAT. A must-see

******
4 September 2007
9
One of the most celebrated films of the 1990's,THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS
is a superbly made and acted adaptation of the novel by Thomas
Harris,with excellent lead performances,script and direction.The story
of FBI rookie Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) being put in a position
of trust by her superiors to trace depraved serial killer Buffalo
Bill,but with the help of the equally depraved but charming and
intellectual Dr.Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) grips totally
throughout it's duration,with cleverly judged moments of violence and
suspense,with some outstanding and ingenious twists in the plot and
construction of the film. This was talented director Jonathan Demme's finest hour as a
director,with deeply impressive performances by Hopkins as the warped
psycho genius Lecter,and Foster as the somewhat naive,but courageous
and gutsy heroine Clarice,one of the most vividly etched female leads
in cinematic history.Their duologue's could have been rather static and
stagy,but thanks to Demme's faultless handling and the great acting on
show by the aforementioned,it come across as totally compelling and
fascinating. Support performances by such venerables as Scott
Glenn,Anthony Heald,Charles Napier and Diane Baker are also of the top
rank,and arguably very few pieces of cinema have ever matched the
relentless thrills,shocks and tension that THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS
achieves so successfully. If there is one problem with the film,it is that the details and
actions of the depraved principals involved are so overwhelmingly
ugly,nasty and repellent that one even questions the imagination and
mental state of the writers and filmmakers to invent such
horrid,gruesome events for our entertainment.The filmmakers are to be
congratulated that THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS is so brilliantly made that
it takes away the feeling of bad taste,but with the sheer repulsiveness
of certain story aspects,it is occasionally something of a struggle.The
eventually seen character of Jame Gumb (aka Buffalo Bill) must rank as
the most relentlessly evil,disturbed and unpleasant villain ever
witnessed in mainstream cinema.Convincingly played by Ted Levine,he
even makes the murderous antics of fellow nut-case Hannibal seem as
relatively innocent and wholesome as a children's picnic! Despite these reservations,THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS is a considerable
success as a gripping and exciting horror thriller,which of course was
deservedly rewarded at the Oscars.And if you can take it,it is probably
one of the very best of it's kind ever made (if not the best).RATING:8 and a half out of 10.

******
15 August 2007
8
I have never seen acting like Anthony Hopkins's in this movie, he was
simply superb, his eyes were like shining diamonds, one moment I though
he is going to get me, oh my god I was so scared.Jodie Foster did a fantastic job too, her emotions were knocking on the
screen, a well deserved Oscar winning roles for Anthony and Jodie.The screenplay was amazing too, and the director did his best in
turning this novel into an unforgettable masterpiece combining drama
with horror+thrill.the rest of the supporting cast were fantastic too, and this is for Ted
Levine in particular.Though I am not a fan for the horror but I liked it very much.

******
7 August 2007
10
This film, along with its sequel/prequels, is probably the most amazing
thriller that has ever been made in the history of film. I actually ran
into the film by accident when I received it in a gift bag when I
attended the American Music Awards. When I first watched it, I was
completely blown away by it. It was the most incredible film I had ever
seen in my life. Anthony Hopkins is BRILLIANT as Hannibal Lecter. I
have watched the film about 30 times, and I am obsessed with it. Not
only does it involve a look into the mind of Hannibal Lecter, the most
fascinating of all serial killers (both fictional and nonfictional), it
also offers you a chance to look at forensic profiling as well. This
film changed my life, and inspired me to look deeper into a possible
career as a forensic psychologist or some other forensic professional.
I convinced all of my friends to watch the film as well. Even the ones
who didn't particularly feel that it was their "type" of film said that
they had to admit that "The Silence of the Lambs" was brilliantly done.
Even if this kind of movie (thriller) isn't your favorite, you will
still be able to appreciate this masterpiece. So, if you haven't seen
it, I ask you--no, I BEG you--go out and rent it or buy it right away.
You won't regret it.

******
23 June 2007
10
What can I really even say about this movie and not give anything away?
It is so well written, filmed and acted that I can forgive the in
credulousness of the villain (By the way who is that anyway?). After
all, truth IS stranger than fiction. If you can watch this movie
without being appalled, thrilled and scared along with many other
emotions such as sympathy and compassion (which IS why this movie is so
GREAT!) then have a brain scan because the axons and dendrites must not
be firing properly. If you miss it then all I can say is I feel for
you. I have many favorite movies of all time (mostly different genres)
but until I saw this again (for the 20th time or so) I never realized
it was my all-time-number-one-no-questions-asked favorite film of all
time. You owe it to yourself. You can NOT be disappointed!

******
25 May 2007
9
Seriously, this film is regarded as one of the best films of all time
and deservedly so. Jonathan Demme is at his absolute best here building
suspense and tension into a blend of physical and psychological terror
rarely matched in film.But, the reason this film works and kicks so much ass has everything to
do with its stars: Jodie Foster (Genius) and Sir Anthony Hopkins
(Knight). The chemical reaction that takes place between these two on
screen is so palpable and acidic you find yourself hardly able to
watch.Their dynamic is what sets this film apart from any other serial
killer/horror/suspense/thriller ever made. The verbal jousting never
wains when they are on screen. These are mind games unlike any other
portrayed in the movies before or since.This is a must see for horror film lovers, suspense film lovers, and
just plane film lovers. A great movie.

******
17 April 2007
9
Truly one of the best films ever produced, Silence of the Lambs will
keep you on the edge of your seat and make you beg for more. A unique
blend of psychological thriller, mystery, and horror flick, it just
doesn't get much better then this movie.Director Jonathan Demme truly captures the effect of fear in this
movie. The story being based off of the realistic darker sides of the
human psyche, and that is the most terrifying ones.Anthony Hopkins truly delivers to us one of the greatest fictional
villains in film history, and then mixed in with Jodie Foster's role as
one of the most unique heroes ever in film history.The naive, inexperienced FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Foster) is sent
by her superior to interview the brilliant incarcerated cannibal, Dr.
Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins) in order to find another serial killer who is
killing women and skinning them. Demme brilliantly puts you in the
"cheap shoes" of Starling as she goes toe to toe with the terrifying
Lecter, purely a monster all himself.A definite recommendation for anyone who has not seen this movie.

******
26 March 2007
10
I may have come late in seeing "Silence of the Lambs" and now seeing
it, I can only give high marks of praise.The Acting: I was never really a Jodie Foster fan, but seeing her in
this, I was blown away by her acting talent. She was smart, emotional,
and I have to say figuratively and literally beautiful as Clarice
Stirling. Anthony Hopkins shines the film as one of the best villains
in Hollywood history as the cannibal, Hannibal Lector. He was simply
brilliant: cunning, intelligent, and cruel. Whenever these two
thespians were on camera, even though they were in only a handful of
scenes together, they brought the film to life at an engulfing level
that made me feel inside the film! The other cast member that was also
amazing was Ted Levine, who played the lunatic Buffalo Bill. He also
shined the film! The other cast members were also well-suited and
believable in their roles.The film-making: This is now doubt Johnathan Demme's best and most
memorable film. From the opening shots of following Clarice
accomplishing the FBI training grounds, to the intense talks between
Dr. Lecter and Clarice, and to the climatic finale in the dark basement
of Buffalo Bill's lair, the film pumped my heart and soul with
excitement. The haunting score by the famous Howard Shore also added to
the suspense.Other remarks: The film flew by with no time for dillydallying like
many other films have a tendency of doing, and the story was solid with
no plot holes. The editing was a little choppy in the first half hour,
but there's no room for complaints there. Overall, this film, I
consider is among the best movies ever made. It is not only a
physiological thriller, as many believe it is, but it also holds
secrets and other genres to its own."The Silence of the Lambs" is one of my top ten favorite movies. 10/10
If I could, I'd give it an eleven or twelve!

******
10 January 2006
10
If silence of the lambs didn't do anything else right (in fact it did
everything right) it would serve as the perfect example of how to build
up a character as a bad ass. The secret is perfectly on display. All
the rules are followed. Screen time for Hannibal Lecter is kept to a
minimum, at just under sixteen minutes. This utter lack of screen time
which build the anxiety necessary to the character subsequently was
ignored in the sequels and the result is that Hannibal falls victim to
the Freddie Krueger effect where your sympathies begin to cynically
side with him, thus underplaying the currents of the movie. All great
heroes and villains must follow this rule in order to be considered
true movie bad asses. Think Darth Vader, or Clint Eastwood in
unforgiven, or Micheal Madsen as Mr blonde in reservoir dogs. The
second rule is to have you're bad ass doing things decidedly not bad
ass, i.e. Eastwood getting beat up in unforgiven, and here Hannibal is
mostly a caged animal. The third rule is to have other characters
reference the potential violence your bad ass can unleash. Here,
numerous characters talk about just how bad Hannibal is, and in a
masterstroke, doctor Chilton shows a picture to Jodie Foster, that the
audience never sees. This is like the scene in reservoir dogs, where
the audience's imagination are encouraged to imagine the most horrific
things. This movie follows all the rules and creates on of the all time
hard core movie bad asses!!!!!! 10 out of 10

******
17 September 2005
10
It's hard to believe that this old, balding, slightly cross-eyed man
would become one of the greatest actors of our time. He even starred in
Bad Company, for crying out loud! Hopkins completely steals the show as
cannibalistic, brilliant Dr/psycho-killer Hannibal Lecter. This
well-written character's gimmick being that he never really is the main
bad guy, he is still the character you will always remember, quote, and
admire from SOTL.His Oscar-worthy, malicious acting aside, Jodie Foster is equally
brilliant as the cop with the Southern accent. She is definitely one of
our most underrated actresses today.Scott Glenn is menacing and hateful as Buffalo Bill, and his
performance makes you unsettled. True psycho. Kudos to him.I really love this movie and recommend it to anyone. A perfect film:
10/10.

******
4 July 2005
10
If Anthony Hopkins ever needs to present evidence in court that he is
in fact a talented actor, he need look no further than right here.
Through Hopkins' performance, Hannibal Lecter becomes more scary than
Dracula, Wolf Man or any other monster in movie history. Lecter is the
proof that the greatest horror comes from the mind. It is not the
though of Lecter coming into our house in the middle of the night and
eating us that is scary, its what he can do just by looking and talking
to us. That evokes true fear. Hopkins is so affecting, he alone gives
this 7 stars. But thats not to say the rest of the film is weak. Jodie
Foster redefines the heroine as Clarice Starling. She is head strong
and...............vagina sure? I suppose that would have to suffice as
cock-sure. Starling is also weak though, and its a testament to
Fosters' acting chops that Starling doesn't just swoon at Lecters
speeches, but rather fires back equally acidic comments at him.
However, Hopkins remains the star of this fine piece of film-making.
Even though he's only in it for 18 minutes!

******
9 February 2005
8
Silence of the Lambs is a movie about the madness and the psychic.This
is its greatness.I have watched Red Dragon and Hanibal before Silence
of the Lambs and i knew that it won't be better than Red Dragon but it
will be much better than Hanibal and i was right.This is the oldest
movie of the trilogy but it is a sequel of Red Dragon which was
released in 2002.Now about Silence of the Lambs.The plot is about an
FBI agent who must reveal the secret of Buffalo Bill-crazy psychopath
who is doing weird things with his victims.Her name is Clarice
Starling.She finds that Dr.Hanibal Lecter can help her with this
case.Hanibal is played by Anthony Hopkins and he is the best thing in
this movie.Really his greatest performance.The proviso is that he will
tell Clarice about Bufallo Bill and his secrets,only if she tells him
about her personal live.Her tragedy is that her father has died when
she was young.This is about the plot.Very original idea for recreation
of the life of an FBI agent fighting against pure and simple Madness.

******
2 August 2003
10

'The Silence of the Lambs' is the best psychological thriller ever made. 
This film has many visual moments of unmatched excellence.  The scene in
Hannibal Lecter's cell when he stares at the pen with the hope of sabotaging
a part from it to pick his handcuffs.  The camera pans back and fourth
between it and the pen.  Brilliant.  Clarice Starling's point of view when
she first lays eyes on Lecter.  The double murder of the guards in
Hannibal's Memphis cell is probably the most terrifying scene ever filmed. 
Anthony Hopkins proves that quality and not quantity is the key to a best
actor Oscar as his part is extremely small but effective.  Jodie Foster
holds her own with him and you believe every second of her performance. 
Jonathan Demme's direction is superb and he stamps the film with a sure
footed sense of style and chilling effectiveness.  And Ted Tally's
adaptation of the book by Thomas Harris is entertaining from start to finish
without one boring moment in the entire film.  And the best part is that the
film, as scary as it is, has very little violence.

******
13 July 2002
9

this is a crime film,in which a serial killer is nabbed by a women FBI
agent(played by jodie foster).an underplayed and at times brilliant
performance by jodie foster.ther was  a sequel to this film (jodie did not
play the heroine(or hero?)role in this).after seeing the second film it
can
be said of the first film:off the 5 oscars the film garnered,jodie
foster's
was first among equals


******
16 January 2002
9
Anthony Hopkins gives the performance of his career,not to mention one
of the best ever.I rank it second only Dustin Hoffman's acting
performance in Rain Man.Not since Bela Lugosi's turn in 1931's Dracula
has there been such an intimidating presence on screen. The stare,the
mannerisms,the "I just might come out of here and get you" personality
displayed here was enough,and still is enough to make my blood curdle
when I view it.This film is gory,it is disturbing,but it is excellent
in every since of the word.Bravo to everyone involved,and this one
should take a prominent place in the thriller section of anyone's home
library.

******
24 February 2001
9

Even though it's been 10 years since this film came out, "The Silence of the
Lambs" is a movie that I still can't believe won the Oscar for Best Picture
of 1991. This is the kind of movie that Academy voters usually don't go for,
and it was released in February of that year. Movies released very early in
the year hardly ever win Oscar's top prize. But in another way I can see why
this film went on the become the third movie in Oscar history to win the top
5 Oscars (the other two were 1934's "It Happened One Night" and 1975's "One
Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest"). It's a very well made and brilliantly acted
suspense-thriller. Jodie Foster has never been better in her second Best
Actress Oscar-winning performance of her great career (following her first,
1988's "The Accused") as Clarice Starling, an FBI trainee who goes to visit
Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Best Actor Anthony Hopkins), a very smart man who has a
nasty habit of eating human flesh (Yuck!). Starling hopes that Dr. Lecter
can provide information for her and her FBI team in catching a serial killer
who likes to skin his victims, and at the moment has kidnapped the daughter
of a senator. "The Silence of the Lambs" is a movie that is quite disturbing
to watch at times. Some of the images are ugly and downright horrifying. But
those two performances by Foster and Hopkins make this movie as good as it
is. I couldn't take my eyes off of them everytime they were on screen. "The
Silence of the Lambs" certainly held my attention, and I would have to say
of all the five movies nominated for Best Picture of 1991 (the other
nominees were "Beauty and the Beast", "Bugsy", "JFK", and "The Prince of
Tides"), this one is definitely the best.***1/2 (out of four)
 

******
15 March 1999
10

I'm not an expert in the horror genre, but I do know the reputation it
earned thanks to the "slasher" films which were so prevalent in the 70's and
80's, which could be described by the "M" word; misogynistic.  THE SILENCE
OF THE LAMBS is one of those rare horror films(hell, one of those rare
films) which features a strong heroine who's also believable.  And Jodie
Foster is the perfect actress to play it, conveying all the strength,
toughness, resourcefulness, and vulnerability of Clarice Starling.  And
while "Buffalo Bill" may kill women, none of the women portrayed in the
film, from Brooke Smith as the one in the pit, to Diane Baker as her
senator mother, and Kasi Lemmons as Clarice's partner, are seen as just
victims (even Smith, once she gets over her initial terror, tries to fight
back).  It's one of those rare things, a feminist horror
film.Of course, Jonathan Demme and Ted Tally, working from the novel by Thomas
Harris (the best thriller novel of the 80's) do remember this is a horror
film as well, and give us THE most terrifying villain of the 90's.  No, not
Buffalo Bill, though Ted Levine is effective in the role, but Dr.
Hannibal"the Cannibal" Lecter, played to mesmerizing perfection by Anthony
Hopkins.  Hopkins said one of the ways he tried to create Lecter's effect
was trying not to blink, and that certainly does the trick.  But he also
uses his voice, his lack of body movement, and his face to create terror,
and while he pretends to give away nothing, in fact, without meaning to,
betrays feelings for Clarice (just look at the look of sadness he has before
he tells Clarice Dr. Chilton has come for her before he can give her what
she needs to catch Buffalo Bill).Yet while Demme is quite good at the horror, he avoids the mistake most
serial killer works have made today, and that's being too clinical.  People
get so wrapped up in the science that they forget about the human beings who
are turned into these monsters, and who are killed by them.  He also avoids
being overly lurid; most of the actual violence occurs off-screen, and in
the one case (the jail cell) where it doesn't,  we don't have big close-ups
of the victims, but mostly shots of Lecter, which is frightening
enough.By the way, two misconceptions to clear up; first of all, this film does not
glorify Lecter.  It merely recognizes that sometimes, when you have to fight
evil, you have to confront it.  Secondly, when this film was released, there
were complaints that it was a homophobic film.  Buffalo Bill is not gay, and
it states clearly that he was rejected when he tried to have a hospital make
him a transsexual, so his behavior, not his desire, is what is portrayed as
abhorrent.

******
2 August 2013
7
This is the first Hannibal Lector movie that I have seen and the most
well received, I personally liked it. I mean I don't think it's as good
as everybody is saying but at the same time it wasn't bad.The plot of this movie is that an FBI Agent trainee is asked to track
down a serial killer by talking to someone who thinks like serial
killers and is one. Dr Hannibal Lector or "Hannibal the Cannibal". They
are investigating the "Buffalo Bill" murders where a serial killer goes
after fat women in order to make a woman-dress.I personally think that Anthony Hopkins did a great job as Hannibal, my
only complaint with his performance is that he does throw subtlety out
the window quite a bit in this movie. I also felt that Jodie Foster's
performance was overrated, but still good. For a fact most of the
acting in this movie is well done.So if you want to sit down and watch this movie then this is worth a
look. I don't think it is deserving of the praise it got but at the
same time it is a decent little watch.

******
22 September 2007
9
I think silence of the lambs was a brilliant thriller. The part of
Hannibal Lecter was a brilliant piece of acting from Anthony Hopkins in
every part that he came on I watched with great fascinating. The
relationship between Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) and Hannibal
Lecter was the thing that made the movie so interesting for me cause
you never really knew until the end of the movie what the relationship
exactly was.The part of Hannibal was very interesting for me because he was very
smart man that despised live itself and his brutal ways of killing. If
u haven't seen the movie yet u should cause it is a brilliant movie
with interesting twists in it.

******
8 September 2007
10
This movie was groundbreaking. It finally gave a showcase role for one
of the greatest actors of all time, Sir Anthony Hopkins. It also
revived the career of Jodie Foster.Hopkins character dominated and clearly the character was well written
and had some of the most memorable lines of all time.The movie keeps you wondering what will happen next during the whole
movie and in the back of your mind you know there is a strange
relationship based on interest between Hopkins character and Foster's
character.This is one of those movie where you almost create a respect and
admiration for Hopkin's character.

******
4 March 1999
9

Perfectly scripted. Wonderfully shot. Superbly directed by Demme and
acted with precision and brilliance by Foster, Glenn, Levine and of course,
Sir. Anthony Hopkins.


******
9 August 2013
6
I've always wanted to see Silence of the Lambs and finally got to
today. I thought that Hannibal Lector sounded like a really cool
character and of course I anticipated excellent film-making with the
sort of praise it has received.I saw it, and I would say that as far as movies like this go, it is
excellent. But for cinema in general, Silence is unremarkable and,
really, given the hype and awards, ultimately disappointing. Jodie Foster was good, but she is haunted by the slaughter of a lamb
from her childhood? Ridiculous. Anthony Hopkins was great. I think he
deserved his award, though his performance is overrated. Not exactly a
very complex or hard to portray character...The story was not particularly exciting. It was fairly clumsy and
failed to capture my attention. I was repelled by Buffalo Bill but not
interested in his character whatsoever. I watched the movie for the
rare encounters with Hannibal Lector, and the search for Buffalo Bill
was an uninteresting but necessary backdrop. Also, how on Earth would
the FBI bring a SWAT team to a house that is a false tip, that is
hundreds of miles away from the killings...? It makes no sense - they
completely ignored the evidence and conclusions they had already made.
And so, when the so-called thrilling doorbell scene took place, I was
not surprised. Of course he's not in Chicago. Ridiculous.I can honestly say I enjoyed Lector's escape. It was clever and
suspenseful (if a bit illogical) and to some degree makes the movie.And is this movie scary, as has been said? No. Definitely not. The
serial killer is creepy, not terrifying. Hannibal is intriguing, but
not too scary. I've heard of people not sleeping for days, others
having horrific nightmares... I don't understand it.This movie is worth watching if you like thrillers/serial killer/ kind
of movies, but if you go into this film expecting a great piece of
cinema, some groundbreaking technique or idea, or a thrilling scene or
two as I did, you will be disappointed. A good movie, yes. 23rd on IMDb
Top 250? Absolutely not. An 8.7 on IMDb? No.

******
15 February 2010
7
"I dwelt alone in a world of moan, my soul a stagnant tide."  Edgar
Allan Poe Would "The Silence of the Lambs" work as well as it does if actress
Jodie Foster weren't an in-the-closet lesbian? Consider this: the
entire film is about being uncomfortable in one's skin. Buffalo Bill,
the serial killer at the heart of the picture, has sexual identity
issues and hopes to build himself a woman's body. Scorned by the world,
Bill kills his victims and strips them of their skin, his aim being to
knit himself a "body suit" so that he may "blossom" and "become a more
beautiful person".Likewise, Foster's character, a young FBI agent tasked with finding
Buffalo Bill, is constantly placed in positions in which she is chided,
belittled and insulted. Taunted for her cheap perfume, her "white
trash" roots, her lowly status, she's constantly being intimidated by
men (inmates, police, prison wardens etc), sees her commander as a
sexual threat, and seems to have entered the FBI in order to redeem her
father, a modest cop shot on duty.Foster's performance throughout the film (at the time, she was known
for a slew of androgynous roles) is itself incredibly fragile, masking
insecurity and uncertainty behind a facade of toughness. Because her
character is so delicate, we the audience become almost protective of
her. We watch as she fights her way through a variety of ominous
situations and breath a sigh of relief when she eventually emerges
victorious, blossoming into the beautiful flower (a promotion to FBI
Special Agent) that the deranged Buffalo Bill is denied. Foster may not
end the film feeling entirely comfortable in her own skin, but she's
proved to herself that she can survive within her body. She can be
herself - somewhat - and win.Director Jonathan Demme's follow up film was "Philadelphia", a film
which revolved around a gay character, so it's possible that
"Silence's" homosexual subtext - if any - was deliberately nudged by
him. Regardless, Demme's direction is remarkable throughout the
picture. Watch how he milks every scene, every sequence hyped or taken
to incredibly dramatic lengths. Foster's visit to Hannibal Lecter (a
cannibal who lives in a maximum security prison), for example, takes us
down endless flights of stairs, each level heralded by ominous
dialogue, a prison warden even pausing to show Foster a photograph of
Lecter's mutilated victims. But importantly, while characters in the
film flinch in horror at the image on this photograph, the photograph
itself is never actually revealed to Demme's audience. This happens
throughout the film: horrors are talked about, emphasised, hyped, our
appetite whetted at every turn, but never actually revealed. Here is a
film which respects our imagination and treats the macabre with a
certain amount of apprehension. Even the film's ending, in which an
escaped Hannibal Lectre walks confidently off into the horizon, is the
kind of dramatic tease-climax more common in super hero movies. Whilst
most horror movies are a series of carefully set up orgasms, "Silence"
is all anticipation.With the publication of "The Murders in the Rue Morgue", horror maestro
Edgar Allen Poe became the father of detective fiction. But what's
interesting is that with this book we see that crime fiction was born
within the horror genre. More specifically, from the very start, the
criminal has been (wrongly) treated as a vaguely supernatural being; an
incomprehensible, alien and irrational monster."Lambs" raked in zillions of dollars, and so kicked off a chain of
copycat movies. Post "Lambs" we thus had such films as "Kiss The
Girls", "Along Came A Spider", "Taking Lives", "The X Files", "Seven",
"Zodiac", "The Cell", "The Bone Collector" etc etc, all of which copied
"Lamb's" formula, all of which hoped to cash in on its success. The
film also spewed the "wrong house cliché", the "he's in the elevator
cliché" and numerous others, before the series, with "Hannibal" and
"Red Dragon", degenerated into a silly franchise (the same fate befell
"Jaws", "Halloween", "Psycho", "Alien", "Friday the 13th", "Elm
Street", "Poltergeist" and "The Exorcist"). In a way, the fact that
these franchises and sequels were even possible, highlights the faintly
"supernatural" roots of such monsters. The vengeful sharks,
serial-killers, aliens, demons and slashers come back to haunt their
audiences, not because they can never be killed, but because they
aren't remotely "realistic" in the first place (and, of course, because
profits necessitate their reappearance).8.5/10 - Worth multiple viewings. See "The Pledge" and "Memories of
Murder".

******
17 August 2012
7
I should probably mention right up front that I am not a huge fan of
thrillers and, in particular, I don't care for violent or gory films.
Because of this, I have waited a very long time to finally getting
around to seeing this film. The idea of a film about serial killers
just doesn't appeal to me. However, there is also an obsessive part of
me--the part of me that wants to see all the Best Picture Oscar
winners. Apart from this film, there are maybe two others I need to
complete this...until next year! And, my daughter assured me that the
movie wasn't too gory. So, this film review is best appreciated by
others who just aren't into gore, serial killings and
cannibalism--though, oddly, a very high percentage of viewers DO like
such plots.First, the bad news. I sure as heck thought it was a gory film...a very
gory film. You see people with huge chunks of skin ripped off, a guy's
face ripped off and lots of blood. I don't know how my daughter would
think this isn't gory! Second, the not so bad news. Although I really
didn't like the film very much, it was interesting and different.
Anthony Hopkins did a nice job playing a psycho murder--though I also
felt this performance was anything but subtle--but it was entertaining.
So did the film change my mind about the genre or this film in
particular? No. But, apparently I am in the minority here.UPDATE: I recently began watching the TV show, "Hannibal", and although
I also think it's way too graphic, I much prefer Mads Mikkelson's
version of Dr. Lecter. It's much, much more subtle and creepy--without
the over the top theatrics of the movie version of the guy.

******
6 May 2013
6
Saw this movie when it first came out and thought it was pretty great.
Suspenseful, well-acted, different....and critics were heavy-handed
with praise; which probably heavily influenced my opinion. Recently
re-watched it, and had a more critical opinion. 1) What was the deep
inner turmoil that Starling was suppressing all those years? That she
saw a lamb get slaughtered on a farm as a young girl? So what??? 2) Did
she REALLY surmise ANYTHING from the "clues" he gave. Seems she
somewhat randomly stumbles onto his house. 3) Too many closeups; too
many plot contrivances. Nearly every scene is a closeup shot. Adds
intensity at first, but quickly becomes annoying. That Lechter could
uncuff himself from behind with the tip of a pen and overtake the two
Keystone cops, not very believable. Less believable that he was ever
placed is some makeshift iron box in the middle of a library or
gymnasium. 4) She chases him down into his night vision dungeon?
C'mon!! OK I get it for the movie's sake...but way too unrealistic. And
with all the FBI's resources and knowledge they're somewhere else
storming the empty house of a false lead? C'mon.

******
22 January 2013
2
It is certainly the most overrated movie ever.. and it is the first to
depict super serial killers as real believable stuff.. let me say
something, it is a B movie pretending to be a first class movie..
people must understand a simple thing, super serial killers are B MOVIE
STUFF! Movies like Friday 13th or those with Freddy Krüger.. those are
typical B movie where there is a super serial killer.Don't get me wrong, I like B movies.. I like how a B movie director
struggle against time and budget to make a piece of entertainment.. I
liked the first two Jason movies and that first Freddy movie.. they
have the suspense of a B horror movie.. they are true B movies. Those
Silence of the Lambs guys got a money to make an A movie and made a B
movie, period.The plot is just absurd, there is a serial killer on the loose.. and a
investigator tries find help with another serial killer, the super one,
who is in jail.. I don't know exactly what kind of help an investigator
would ask for a jailed man.. but it is what the movie is based on.
Although the free serial killer could be anywhere.. the super serial
killer uses his super powers to help that FBI investigator to find
him.. but he likes to play with that female investigator and then he
uses his superpowers to read her mind and find out everything about her
life. He doesn't tell everything once, he gives her hints about the
serial killer whereabout.. so she gotta come over and over again to him
to beg some more hints.. it is stupid, I know, but that is one the most
praised movies ever.It is like asking a jailed Freddy Kruger to fight Jason because they
can't defeat him.. it is something like that.. if you make a real
analysis of that sh*t. And it is not a thriller at all, and has a lot
of highly laughable absurd bits.Unfortunately it created a trend people seems to like too much.. the
super serial killer movie pretending to be a serious one, not a B movie
which it indeed is.

******
8 August 2006
5
First problem: this could have been quite shocking and groundbreaking
movie in the 1970's, not after the decade of splatter, gore, mad
slashers and all kinds of overwhelming violence, the 80's. And of
course especially not after the first film-version of the Thomas
Harris' book "Red Dragon", aka "Manhunter" by Michael Mann, which
intensity and credibility is in a whole different level. So there was
nothing exceptional happening on the screen to me when I saw this even
back in 1991, being of course much more dated now. Sure, the majority
of moviegoers bought this whole, at least partly due to being the one
serial killer- horror-movie that also women could understand and relate
to through the main character.Second problem: I've had this little rule of my own how one can quickly
define a director's talent while watching a film. I'll do it by
close-ups, especially of the faces. The more close-ups the worse as
they lose their effect. Martin Scorsese, Roman Polanski, Steven
Spielberg, Sam Peckinpah, Stanley Kubrick... they all use them only
temporarily, on the right occasion as they should be. Then there are
these guys who cherish those facial close-ups in almost EVERY scene
like Tony Scott or Renny Harlin, which is, annoyingly, Demme's way of
depicting major confrontations in "The Lambs" too. When Hopkins' or
Foster's face fill the screen, either delivering or receiving, there's
nothing frightening or emotional to me. It's manipulative and
ridiculous, destined to be followed by all kinds of mockery spoofs and
rightly so. It's soap opera. In the last resort, and to make the
problem worse, the interplay between characters just isn't that
intelligent and challenging as everybody and his sister seems to think.Third problem: Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster are widely regarded as
one of the best actors in (movie) history. I don't agree. While they're
no hams either I still find them to be on top only in the category of
"mannerism". Which is a little odd because judging by many many
interviews I've seen over the years they are clearly quite intelligent
persons. Particularly in this movie, they're are SO self-conscious in
every scene. They are not talking to each other, they are talking to
that scary middle-aged lady in the aisles. And what really is so
special in Jodie Foster's performance? She behaves all the time
perfectly normally and logically (why in the first place someone even
WANTS to see a 'vulnerable' woman as an FBI-agent is beyond me), so how
come Lecter-Hopkins has that unusual interest in her? And being a true
female police, she almost screws up busting that serial-killer by
making wrong decisions in every turn in the climax... Many actions are
too unbelievable compared to reaching for realism in many other levels.I don't mind that much about this movie's success in the box office and
not even it's undeserved but ongoing status as sort of phenomenon, but
those five main Academy Awards for only the third time in Hollywood
history was incomprehensible. Even just considering "serial
killer"-depictions, this is somewhere 6th or 7th best in its genre on
my list. But so that leaving you all "Lambs"-lovers with more positive
feelings I have to admit there is one good, clever and truly exciting
scene after all: Lecter's escape. Glimmers among the rest of the
garbage like a shiny kitchen knife....

******
5 December 2015
7
Actors brilliantly performed but theme is below the level.may it is my
fault because i watched lot of film like this earlier .but i appreciate
the director that it was released on 1991 .I think at that time may be
it was a great theme but its worth a watch. Direction was great .it is
up to the level. Its a thriller Background was attractive to ears Type
of serial killing was new Film was fast it will not make us bore.rating
make me more expectation to this film .I watched the film usual
suspects by the rating of IMDb .its make me happy because it was best
suspense film i ever watched .may be it is the reason because i watched
both film on the day

******
27 August 2015
7
Film is basically divided, unevenly, into three sections: Starling
interviewing Lector, for clues about the identity of a killer at large,
referred to as Buffalo Bill; Lector's manipulation of Starling, in
attempt to escape custody; and the case of Buffalo Bill himself, a
truly frightening villain, moreso than Lector himself, in my opinion.Buffalo Bill holding the girl captive in the well in his basement are
terrifying, especially when he speaks to her, referring to her as *it*.
"It rubs the lotion on its skin. It does that whenever it is told", in
such a booming, baritone voice, only makes it sound even more
intimidating. He is one of the creepiest killers in film, vaguely
similar to Leatherface, and leaves quite an impression, despite
precious little screen time. I found him to be more intimidating and
terrifying even than Lector, who, while also chilling, was more of a
gentleman in his speech and mannerisms. Even when Lector was beating
the guard with his nightstick, he did it with such elegance and
finesse, he made it seem almost poetic. A counter to Buffalo Bill's
crudity.The climax was taut and suspenseful, as Starling gropes around in the
pitch black basement searching for Buffalo Bill, a light, and a way
out, but it was negated when he committed such an obvious, stupid
mistake (loudly pulling the hammer back on his gun, and basically
announcing his presence to Starling) Or, was that the purpose of that
action, to show us he really wasn't a very smart man?

******
8 August 2015
8
"The Silence of the Lambs" took me by complete surprise, and that's
meant in the best way possible. When the movie began, I wasn't
expecting such a varied bag of tricks, but there was always some new
surprise just around the corner. A genuine nail-biter, no question. And
few movies can jack up the levels of dread and creepiness like this
one; stalking camera movements, interrogations in uncomfortable
close-ups, and that's not even touching the crazy messed-up stuff going
on with Buffalo Bill (I almost can't believe that guy was on "Monk").
And Lecter's escape was one of the most deeply unnerving things I've
ever seen. I really liked Jodie Foster's character; Clarice Starling is
in a league with Marge Gunderson ("Fargo") - a rookie rather than a
veteran, but no less self-reliant in a man's world. Doe eyes masking
steely resolve. It's a great performance.This is shocking stuff, and a movie that burrows itself deep within
your brain. Tough to shake . . . but you don't really want to, either.8/10

******
29 July 2015
8
n this multiple Oscar-winning thriller, Jodie Foster stars as Clarice
Starling, a top student at the FBI's training academy whose shrewd
analysis of serial killers lands her a special assignment: the FBI is
investigating a vicious murderer nicknamed Buffalo Bill, who kills
young women and then removes the skin from their bodies. Jack Crawford
(Scott Glenn) wants Clarice to interview Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony
Hopkins), a brilliant psychiatrist who is also a violent psychopath,
serving life behind bars for various acts of murder and cannibalism.
Crawford believes that Lecter may have insight into this case and that
Starling, as an attractive young woman, may be just the bait to draw
him out. Lecter does indeed know something of Buffalo Bill, but his
information comes with a price: in exchange for telling what he knows,
he wants to be housed in a more comfortable facility. More important,
he wants to speak with Clarice about her past. He skillfully digs into
her psyche, forcing her to reveal her innermost traumas and putting her
in a position of vulnerability when she can least afford to be weak.
The film mingles the horrors of criminal acts with the psychological
horrors of Lecter's slow-motion interrogation of Clarice and of her
memories that emerge from it.

******
27 June 2015
8
"Silence of the Lambs" (1991) features Anthony Hopkins' superb
rendition of serial killer Hannibal Lecter. He's 10 out of 10. All of
his scenes, his looks, his body language, his voice, are terrific.
There is a second serial killer (Lawrence Bonney) that Jodie Foster,
the FBI agent, is hunting for, and by comparison, everything about him
comes across grotesque and lurid, even though Lecter chews on people.
His part of the film is more or less typical of serial killer
thrillers, and there is nothing special about that performance that
stands out. Jodie Foster does an excellent portrayal of her very
well-written character. Scott Glenn is effective as her boss.The movie concentrates heavily on Foster succeeding in the manly world
of cops and agents who outnumber her and tower over her. This became a
little heavy-handed and overdone. We got the idea without being beat
over the head with it. The photography also overdid somewhat the
straight-on looking at her, while using a greater variety of shots for
Hopkins.We understand the background of Foster in detail because the movie
provides it openly. Far less do we understand the brilliant Hopkins
with his twisted moral compass. My take follows. One key is that he
craves attention, approval and adulation for his superior intelligence
in a world that doesn't beat a path to his door and doesn't adore any
celebrity for long. These cravings have been perverted into the
gratifications of his crimes. His way of showing off has been set into
behavioral stone by his killing and cannibalism, which has become a
need and requisite of his being. His rejection of the society and
family that rejected him, his fantasy life, and his hatreds have taken
him over. What might have begun in his imagination as something of a
delusion of his own might became reality and then a craving. He calls
it coveting. He is describing himself when he assesses Bonney.The story crackles when Foster is on screen and when he interacts with
Foster. When he's out of the picture after his escape, the movie
becomes rather mundane. In that escape, the "surprise" part could be
guessed fairly easily.The picture has something to say about social acceptance. Both Foster
and Hopkins face a challenge or have faced it. Hopkins went one way,
and Foster has gone an entirely different way. That is in their nature
and experiences. It is not really completely explicable. The screenplay
doesn't really try to make the contrast understandable. The story might
have used Bonney's character to explore the same theme, but instead it
went off into psycho-sexual confusion. This weakened the impact a lot.This is not a movie for young children. It shows a lot of blood and
mutilation. This comes across as sensationalistic. Cannibalism itself
and Bonney's skinning his victims to make a coat are both lurid and
sensationalistic. These kinds of things tend to crowd out deeper
matters that could have been treated in the screenplay. Screen time is
limited. The more time spent on such matters, the less time that can be
spent on other matters.

******
29 March 2015
7
The Silence of the Lambs is two good movies... unfortunately it is
packaged as one film. I won't dive too much into the plot as I'm sure most of you have seen
the film by now. But just in case: The film follows an FBI student who
is following a case of a serial killer known as Buffalo Bill who skins
his victims. The FBI student must use a locked up serial killer known
as Hannibal Lector to help her figure out who the Buffalo Bill murderer
is.The performances in this movie are all very good. Hannibal Lector is
very intimidating, and Clarice is also well portrayed by Jodie Foster
as a woman who is trying to prove herself, but might be slightly out of
her league at times. These two characters are both very interesting and
their interaction is very well-done... however, the film forgets that
this isn't the movie's plot.The movie is about finding Buffalo Bill. It is not about Hannibal
Lector. This is such an interesting mistake that the movie makes
because around 50% of the movie's run time is dedicated to learning
about Hannibal and making him an interesting character yet... he only
effects about 2% of the movie's plot. The movie has a whole escape
sequence dedicated to him, only for him never to be seen again in the
movie. The only thing that Hannibal does to effect the plot is this: He
gives Clarice two hints. That is it. The movie forgets that just
because you have an interesting character it doesn't mean that they are
a relevant character. Hannibal Lector is IRRELEVANT to the movie's
plot. If his arc would connect with Clarice's arc a bit more, then this
would be excusable, but when such a large section of the movie is
dedicated to him for no real purpose, it gets kind of... stupid.I can see why people adore this movie, and it is because Hannibal is an
interesting character. However, the movie DEDICATES itself to making
him interesting but doesn't dedicate itself to WHY he is even in the
plot... and the answer is: there is no reason. There is no real reason
for Hannibal to be in the plot.Regardless of the relevance of Hannibal, the movie's ACTUAL story isn't
half bad. It is about an FBI student getting over her weaknesses and
trying to prove herself. In the end, she proves herself and becomes a
stronger woman. We see her confront fear in the face when at the
beginning of the movie she would break down at fear. I would say that
the character is better acted than she is developed. Her back-story and
motivation is quite literally summed up in one scene of exposition.
Hannibal basically says: What motivates you? Clarice: Screaming sheep. This brings us to the last minor gripe of the film: Hannibal is a
gruesome murderer and even kills multiple people during his escape, yet
Clarice talks to him at the end as if nothing really happened. She
doesn't even seemed concerned that he makes a pun about going to eat
someone in a little bit. Just because he is an interesting character
doesn't mean that he is excused for being evil. Clarice, who seems to
have a strong sense of justice and knowledge, is out of character when
she accepts this. Her character wouldn't accept that.All in all, the movie's main story and ending sequence is pretty good.
You probably know where it is going, but it is still well done. All of
my gripes combined, it becomes quite obvious that this is two entirely
different films: One half is dedicated to Hannibal, the other half is
dedicated to the actual story. The two halves do not fully connect
which then makes the film: broken. This is a broken film that doesn't
know what it is aiming for. Regardless of it being broken, it is still
well shot, well acted, well directed, and much better than the average.
I have to give credit where it is due that this film is much better
than the average film, but it could've been a great film if it knew
what it was aiming for.

******
25 March 2015
8
Clarice Starling, a young intelligent FBI trainee, has been sent to the
Baltimore state hospital for the criminally insane to interview an
inmate Dr. Hannibal-the cannibal- Lecter. A brilliant renowned
psychiatrist turned infamous psychopathic serial killer. She must match
wits with Lecter -who has the darkest of all minds- and trust him to
give her clues in the search for "Buffalo Bill". A nick name for a
loose, unknown, unstoppable psychopathic serial killer...This is one of my favourite films, everything about it is just
brilliant, its exciting, creepy and suspenseful. The film is dark,
gritty and dirty and difficult to watch at times. Director Jonathan
Demme is masterful through skillful timing of the direction, it is well
acted throughout. Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins deliver great strong
performances that keep you watching till the very end.In conclusion this film is an absolute classic and shouldn't be missed.

******
1 March 2015
7
I have often considered this movie (and the performances of Anthony
Hopkins and Jodie Foster) to be over rated. I didn't like it upon
release, and I found myself bored when I revisited it several years
later. However I recently got in to a debate with a friend when I said Robin
Williams should have won the Oscar for "Fisher King", and either Susan
Surrandon or Geena Davis should have won for "Thelma & Louise" over
Hopkins and Foster in this movie, and he disagreed strongly suggesting
I Rewatch this asap. So here we go.Plot in A Paragraph: Clarice Starling (Foster) a young U.S. FBI
trainee, seeks the advice of the imprisoned Dr. Lecter (Hopkins) to
apprehend another serial killer, known only as "Buffalo Bill".Don't get me wrong, both Hopkins and Foster are very good here, I just
find the movie routine and their performances over rated. They do have
really good chemistry, but only share four scenes throughout the course
of the film, with Hopkins only appearing in about 20-25 minutes of the
movie. Scott Glenn and Charles Napier give solid support in smaller roles. "Silence Of The Lambs" was only the third film, the other two being It
Happened One Night and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, to win Academy
Awards in all the top five categories: Best Picture, Best Actor, Best
Actress, Best Director, and Adapted Screenplay. It is also the first
Best Picture winner widely considered to be a horror film.

******
1 February 2015
7
WHAT I LIKED1. Lead performances - Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter was perfect.
Jodie Foster as Clarice Starling was also good.2. All scenes involving Hannibal Lecter. He is truly intriguing and
frightening.3. The climax.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE1. Underdeveloped villain - Buffalo Bill does not get enough
screen-time. The movie was more about Hannibal and Clarice.VERDICTA good film with a terrific performance by Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal
Lecter.7/10 - Good

******
9 December 2014
7
In a college level FILM 240 course Fall 2014, we studied the film The
Silence of the Lambs. What I suggest a viewer watch for during the film
is American Flags. The purpose or reasoning behind the director's
inclusion of it may be showing the failing of the American dream that
America is not what people from different countries, who want to
prosper here, think it is. That America is actually hiding more
horrible things than you think. For example, the American flag is found
over the top of a car that contains the missing head of a man who is a
trans-gender male. It suggests that may be the American government is
trying to cover up or hide what really goes on behind closed doors.

******
7 December 2014
7
Parker, the father, is portrayed by the actor Jim Beaver and the
daughter, Alex, by the actor Sharon Garnier. I thought the sound in the
short film was very well,and actually one of my favorite aspects of the
film. The background sounds were nice and felt a bit soothing to listen
to the nature of the Caribbean. The sound really captures you into the
setting and what is going on. I really enjoyed the acting of Jim Beaver
as Parker. He did a great job at expressing how he felt about writing
and how he felt about his daughter giving up her dreams of writing. As
far as the character Alex, I liked her character, but I was not really
impressed because I felt as if the acting was too forced. This made me
feel a disconnect to the character Alex.

******
24 September 2014
8
A young F.B.I. cadet must confide in an incarcerated and manipulative
killer to receive his help on catching another serial killer who skins
his victims. Young FBI agent Clarice Starling, played by Jodie Foster,
is assigned to help find a missing woman to save her from a
psychopathic serial killer who skins his victims. Clarice attempts to
gain a better insight into the twisted mind of the killer by talking to
another psychopath Hannibal Lecter, played by Anthony Hopkins, who used
to be a respected psychiatrist. FBI agent Jack Crawford believes that
Lecter, who is also a very powerful and clever mind manipulator, has
the answers to their questions and can help locate the killer. However,
Clarice must first gain Lecter's confidence before the inmate will give
away any information. In Hannibal Lecter, The Silence of the Lambs has
an iconic and scary horror movie villain that is so revered and
recognized by horror fans alike today. Hannibal Lecter isn't you normal
Freddy Krueger, Jason Voorhees or even Michael Myers, he is more
intelligent and articulate and it is because of these qualities to why
I believe that The Silence of the Lambs is a scary horror movie
compared to other horror movies. Anthony Hopkins depiction of Hannibal
Lecter terrifying qualities was truly deserved of his Best Actor
Academy Award. The Silence of the Lambs is a disturbing, suspenseful
and intense movie that will leave you disturbed because of the lead
character in this movie seems so realistic.

******
4 January 2014
7
This film has not aged well with time. It has a very dated feel to it
now.But it's worth seeing for Anthony Hopkins' brilliant recreation of a
monster and serial killer. If you haven't seen this film yet, you owe
it to yourself to see Hopkins at his most creative best and for some of
his classic lines and scenes - especially his now-famous improvisation
regarding his culinary desires. (You'll know what I mean when you see
it.)Jodi Foster is solid here, though her range as an actress is limited.
Her face is largely emotionless unless it's showing anger - that's the
one emotion she can amply express, for my money. I know I'm probably in
the minority here, but I'm not a big fan of hers. She's like a female
Tom Cruise. Great for action films, not so great for films requiring a
lot of emotional depth. But she's good here.The sequels? AVOID THEM AT ALL COSTS!!! THEY'RE HORRIFYING AND GLORIFY
IN INHUMANITY - IN ALL OF ITS GORY DETAIL. THE SEQUELS ARE MOVIE OF A
SLASHER-STYLE BREED. I am so sorry I saw the sequels. They sicken me to this day. So many
gratuitous and gleeful mutilation scenes - makes you wonder if the
movie makers were sick-minded!!! Why they chose to go that route makes
you wonder. Maybe they misunderstood what made the original - this film
- worth seeing. It wasn't the gore. It was Hopkins.

******
27 December 2013
8
Silence of the Lambs is highly acclaimed as one of the best films ever
made into the thriller genre, and in fact deserves this title. There
are plenty of films like these nowadays, so the formula may be a bit
cliché in fact, but the film itself still unique in his own way. Hannibal Lecter is a very intelligent man and at same time a dangerous
psychopath, so normally the actor that would eventually take the role
should put effort in bringing exactly what Hopkins's acting did. In
Lecter skin, he looks like a creepy but classy individual, and one
could argue that this kind of thing is very hard to accomplish. I found
him to be almost an untouchable and invincible character, and if you
watch the film you'll understand. I am not entirely convinced by 'that'
scene(those who watched the film know what i am talking about), despite
being very impressive. I also liked Jodie Foster in the film. Her performance in this film is
good, not one of the 'Greatest Ever' but very convincing. If the
intention was to show a character that is slightly scared all the time
so she did very well, because it was exactly my impression about her.There are some harsh dialogs and situations in this film that may
engross and even left the viewer uncomfortable, but still surprisingly
tame for a film that explores the subjects it did.It don't have that much accomplished in the artistic aspects, but the
story-telling is very good. And even with a few poorly made
scenes(Jodie Foster calling 'Dr Lecter?' numerous times in the phone),
it still a fine interesting film. 8.5/10

******
24 October 2013
8
A brilliant horror/thriller which, following on from the success,
albeit limited, of 'Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer', managed to
bring the horror genre back to life after a brief lull. The script is
sharp and quite frightening at times. Jodie Foster provides an
outstanding and realistic performance in what was a trying role.
Anthony Hopkins is very good too, although at times I feel he overdose
it a bit. The camera angles are generally very simple and, along with
the score, combine to give a creepy feel. Put this together with the
good directing and it completes the picture. I also enjoyed the homage
to 60s B-movie horror films with Roger Corman appearing briefly in a
bit role. A film I would definitely recommend.

******
24 August 2013
8
Finally the time came and I decided to watch all of the Hannibal movies
(because after the end of Hannibal's season 1 I was left with a void
that only Hannibal Lecter could fill up). So I started with the famous
Silence of the Lamb.If you are familiar with this movie, you probably know the plot: FBI
agent Clarise Starling plaeyd by Jodie Foster needs the help of an
incarcerated prisoner Hannibal Lecter played by Anthony Hopkins to
catch a serial killer on the loose.So what was most interesting for me is that people aren't what they
seem from the first impression. Yes, we see Clarise training but that
is because she is the character with whom we are growing together, the
main character. She is running through the forest what might be a
metaphor that she is trying to defeat evil as forest always was a
gloomy and scary place where monsters were hiding. But that is not how
she is viewed by others. There are various scenes where she is the only
woman in male company and everybody is looking at her as if she is not
capable of anything, but she proves them wrong.On the other hand we see Hannibal as a calm person standing in his
cell. You could not tell that this person is a heartless murderer who
eats his victims. But that's what everybody knows about him. And that
is why he is in the cell. Later we see his change when he attacks the
guards, but I think more important is his entrance scene. It is just
radiating with innocence, but you still have this feeling that
something is wrong. Maybe it's not the cell, but most probably it's how
he looks, how he smiles. But that you notice just a bit later.So that's what I saw in this movie  the difference between first
impression and true people's nature. It's a bit scary how wrong can we
sometimes be. Maybe next time we will regard the innocent looking
person with more care.

******
31 January 2013
7
"The Silence of the Lambs" was the Big Film of 1991. It cleaned up at
the Academy Awards, becoming only the third film in history to win the
"Big Five" Oscars of Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best
Actress and Best Writing, a feat which eluded many other Big Films.
(The other two films to achieve the feat were "It Happened One Night"
in 1934 and "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" in 1975). And yet, even
though I can appreciate its many good points, it has never really been
a favourite of mine. The reason it has never been a favourite of mine is probably that I
don't like serial killer films very much. More recent essays in the
genre such as "The Bone Collector", "Se7en" and "Copycat" have struck
me as very overrated and as having little to do with real-life crime.
"Zodiac", which provided a fictitious solution to a real crime, was
both dull and distasteful in the way that it branded a (safely dead)
real individual as the killer. Each of these films revolved around some
sort of gimmick; in the case of "The Bone Collector", for example, the
gimmick was a brilliant but disabled detective, and in "Se7en" it was a
killer who based his pattern of killing around the Seven Deadly Sins. The gimmick in "The Silence of the Lambs" is the concept of one serial
killer helping the FBI to capture another. It was not the first film to
feature the character of Hannibal Lecter (that was "Manhunter" from
five years earlier), but it was the one that made him famous. Lecter is
brilliant psychiatrist who also happens to be a cannibalistic serial
killer. Because of Lecter's insights into the criminal mind, the FBI
seek his help in their pursuit of a serial killer nicknamed "Buffalo
Bill", who kidnaps and murders women, then skins their corpses."The Silence of the Lambs" shares one feature in common with "The Bone
Collector" and "Copycat". All three films feature a detective who is
for some reason unable to investigate the crime in person, so the
actual leg-work is done by a keen but inexperienced female associate.
In "The Bone Collector" the detective is physically disabled; in
"Copycat" she is confined to her apartment by severe agoraphobia. In
this film it is Lecter rather than Clarice's superior Jack Crawford who
is effectively the lead detective, but as he is incarcerated in a
hospital for the criminally insane the actual investigative work has to
be performed by Clarice Starling, a young FBI trainee. The two Oscars I would not dispute are those which went to Jodie Foster
as Clarice and Anthony Hopkins as Lecter. Scott Glenn is rather
uncharismatic as Crawford, but both Foster and Hopkins are brilliant.
There are two sides to Hopkins's personality as an actor. On the one
hand he can be excellent playing quiet, reserved or gentlemanly
characters, like Dr Treves in "The Elephant Man", Frank Doel in "84
Charing Cross Road", C S Lewis in "Shadowlands" or Stevens in "The
Remains of the Day". On the other, he can be equally effective as
villainous or monstrous characters, like Lambert Leroux in "Pravda" or
Crawford in "Fracture", and Lecter is undoubtedly his most famous
creation in this vein. Indeed, Lecter has become one of the most famous
villains in the modern cinema, a man who is undoubtedly cultured and
intellectually brilliant, possessed of both a rather grave old-world
courtesy and a savage low cunning, and morally quite insane, quite
incapable of understanding why killing and eating people is considered
morally wrong, although he is fully aware that it is illegal. He
describes with lip-smacking relish how he ate one individual's liver
"with some fava beans and a nice Chianti". Foster's performance here is perhaps less obviously dramatic than those
she gave in two other films from around this period, "The Accused" and
"Nell", but Clarice Starling is a rather different character to Nell or
Sarah in "The Accused"- quiet, determined and professional, anxious to
hide her emotions. She combines well with the more obviously flamboyant
Hopkins as Lecter and Clarice start to play complicated mind-games with
one another, each trying to get inside the other's head. (The film's
rather obscure title derives from a traumatic episode in Clarice's
childhood, which Lecter succeeds in worming out of her). There is also
a good contribution from Ted Levine as Buffalo Bill.1991 was not perhaps the greatest year in cinematic history; I doubt
very much if "The Silence of the Lambs" would have scooped the "Big
Five" had it appeared in the same year as, say, "Dances with Wolves"
(the Big Film of 1990) or "Unforgiven" (ditto of 1992). My own choice
for Best Picture in 1991 would have been Zhang Yimou's masterly "Raise
the Red Lantern", but the Academy is notorious for its dislike of
foreign-language films; all films to have won "Best Picture" have been
American or British, apart from the French "The Artist"- which
contained no spoken dialogue. My favourite American film of the year
would probably have been "Cape Fear", but in the early nineties the
Academy was equally notorious for its dislike of Martin Scorsese. "The Silence of the Lambs" is well-directed; Jonathan Demme skilfully
handles his material to produce a tense, exciting thriller. Yet despite
this, and despite some fine acting, the film never really rises above
the limitations of its genre, remaining a combination of Grand Guignol
and gruesome crossword puzzle. (Sometimes almost literally so; Lecter
shares the crossword compiler's weakness for puns, anagrams and word-
games). It may be the best film ever made about a psychopathic
criminal, but that only makes it a big fish in a small if overcrowded
pond. 7/10

******
31 October 2011
10
This movie has so much power to keep you glued to the screen that you
just cant believe.I still have a remembrance from this movie about how
this movie crated a picture of jodie foster running with the Lamb in
the Cold when they have not even shown that in the movie but just the
power of narration which made me imagine the picture of that thing when
she said about that incident.every word out of ?hopkins mouth is so
thoughtful and scary in some way that you keep guessing what does he
mean by saying that,it actually is so mystical in its own eway that you
will find this movie worth a watch for more than three or four
times...some scenes are so ENGROSSING that you just forget about
everything and the intrusion which this story has will make you follow
the whole hannible Series in search of what exactly its all about and
where it ends finally. If you love thrillers or anything psychotropic
then you should go for this movie... i just cant find any movie close
to this one...

******
22 October 2011
10
If you haven't seen Silence of the Lambs yet then my god, Go and watch
it! It's wonderful what movies are capable of achieving. From my words,
you clearly have got the idea... I don't watch movies again and again.
But this movie needs repeated viewings. It's very hard to shake out this movie once you have seen it. Each and
every element is a visual feast for our senses. With many close up
shots, music that doesn't belong to the film because it's poetic,
powerful performances, surprise shots and beautiful cinematography,
this film in itself is a perfect masterpiece. Although it's a mind
turning movie, it forces you to think... The dialogs are classic. You
will eventually end up reciting them and memorizing the entire movie.(Spoiler) This movie did face a lot of controversy because the killer
in this film is a transsexual. Various guy communities and all were
hurt by this as this idea has been frequently been adopted by
Hollywood. Please don't think wrong about this when you watch the
movie. Frankly, I never even thought of this. I always thought the
killer to be crazy because Lecter himself described him to be: "he
thinks he is a transsexual. look for severe childhood disturbances".
(Spoiler)Nevertheless, great movie. My rating 10/10.P.S.: Do You spook easily?

******
24 January 2011
7
When this movie came out, I was just a kid, so it wasn't till years
later that I saw it. I liked it, but didn't understand what the fuss
was about. I found it quite lacking in many aspects, especially Jodie
Foster's acting, which reminds me of a bad soap opera. I, simply, found
that the movie was missing a lot of things.Then, a few years later, I read the book and saw just how much the
movie missed, mostly in character portrayal. The only person who,
actually, did the role right, was Scott Glenn, but it was never
explained why he was always so sad and melancholic (his wife's illness
and death).Ted Levine was also pretty good, I liked the way he played a psycho,
especially since I've seen some of his more uptight and comic roles,
eg., in Monk.As far as Hopkins goes, I think that Lecter suited him better in
Hannibal and Red dragon. It seemed that he was so relaxed in the role.
In this movie, not so much, but I don't think it was really his fault,
being a truly great actor. Like I said, the overall character portrayal
was bad.I, actually, don't like Jodie Foster that much, and her whiny Clarice
is not much different from, say, Nell.Demme did capture the gruesome atmosphere really well and I have to
give him that.Even though it is a good movie, it is not a great one and I certainly
hope someone decides to do the book a little more justice some day.

******
20 September 2010
7
I think that the writer of the movie wants to say how sick it is when
weak people have the power and low to control the superior people and
to imprison them. So he exaggerated and drew enlargement picture for
his major character. Dr. Lecter  the revolutionary man on this society
has such system- hates rude people, he said to Claris (Now you're being
rude, and I hate rude people)that means that he hates ordinary weak
people who are being rude when somebody show them how weak and shallow
are they. This movie is not just a fiction it is a scream in the face
of stupidity that envelops our life. But I think that the movie is
nothing without outstanding acting of Anthony Hopkins.

******
4 April 2010
7
I watched this only because Ted Levine was in it and was pleasantly
surprised. It's a very good thriller. Worthy of Academy Awards. I just
thought Ted Levine was amazing in his role. It's hard to play someone
like Buffalo Bill considering the fact that Levine is almost always a
cop in his other movies. Anthony Hopkins was creepy. But cool. Jodie
Foster was good. Southern accent. She deserved winning the Oscar.
Anthony Heald was also very good. All in all, it was a good movie that
was worth watching. Kept me at the edge of my seat from thirty minutes
in. But I didn't really get the bit about the butterflies. Oh well.
That is all.

******
2 April 2010
8
There are many films out there with a reputation of being able to scare
the living hell out of a viewer, but there is perhaps none as notorious
as "The Silence of the Lambs." This is a demented and frightening
motion picture, and that's the bottom line.FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is assigned to do a
psychological profile of a notorious serial killer, the brilliant and
insane former psychologist, Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins). Her
boss, Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn) hopes that Lecter will be attracted
to Starling's innocence, and help them catch a new serial killer,
dubbed "Buffalo Bill." But Lecter won't do this for free, and the
question becomes whether Starling is able to hold herself together
against the evil doctor.This film works as well as it does because it is crafted so well. Had
the direction and the acting been pedestrian, this would be just
another movie. However, Director Jonathan Demme is interested in
exploring his characters and inviting us into the minds of these
characters. People call this a horror movie, and that's not true. This
is a psychological thriller in its purest form, and the violence and
fear that the film generates is due to this exploration. To do this,
Demme uses a lot of close-ups so that we can study their facial
features, which allows us to understand their emotions on a physical
level. This is applying to our basic instincts, and it works; it allows
us a deeper understanding of the characters.However, Demme's skill only goes so far; it's up to the actor's to take
up the rest of the slack. And the performances by its two stars make a
rather unique story into a legendary excursion into fear.Everyone knows his name. Hannibal Lecter, or more by his nickname,
Hannibal the Cannibal. Lecter is the personification of evil, and there
is no character more frightening than the chilling psychopath played by
Anthony Hopkins. Hopkins uses his eyes (he seldom blinks) and his voice
to chill us to the very bone. When he walks, it's slow and methodical.
Being inside a caged cell does not stop him from looking at the person
outside (which from the camera position, is usually us) feel like we
are being stalked by a predator. Surprisingly, in this film, Lector is
only on screen for 16 minutes, yet the impact of his performance is
permanent. Few performances have been more justly rewarded than Hopkins
as Hannibal Lecter.His counterpart, Clarice Starling, is portrayed by Jodie Foster, who it
seems doesn't know how to give a bad performance. Foster is brilliant
as the spunky trainee. She's in over her head, but her determination to
solve the case and keep her psyche in one piece makes her a perfect
match for Lecter, something they both realize. Although Hopkins gets
all the credit, Foster's brilliant performance makes him even better
than Hopkins could by himself. Both of their performances compliment
each other well, which elevates the project from solid into brilliant.
The other actors are effective, but Foster and Hopkins are the ones
that really make the film what it is.This isn't a flawless movie; quite frankly, it's just not as
frightening as its legend suggests, and the psychological explorations
of the characters by critics and the actors make the film promise
something that it doesn't have. This is simply a superbly executed
thriller, one that relies on character to succeed instead of special
effects.Nevertheless, this film will scare you (the climax is genuinely
terrifying). And it introduces us (to the definitive interpretation at
least...Brian Cox played the role in "Manhunter" in the 80s) to one of
cinema's most notorious characters. That alone is reason enough to see
this film.

******
28 March 2010
10
Somehow, I think this is the best movie I've ever seen. The atmosphere
is exciting and all the characters are well made. Of course the best
part is Anthony Hopkins' acting. It almost makes me goose-pimpled!
Jodie Foster also made her best role in this movie. The plot is
interesting in my opinion, because I like sick plots. ;) Music also
fits the movie perfectly and the movie holds its audience from the
beginning to the end. All the twists and turns of the plot were
breathtaking and surprised me all over again. Altogether, I really
can't say anything bad about this film.Absolutely 10/10

******
19 March 2010
9
I watched Silence with high expectations. They were all confirmed.Hopkins is awe inspiring as Lecter, Levine is disturbing as Gumb, the
lighting is dark and creates a chilling atmosphere, and the score is as
powerful as Lecter himself.However, I have several gripes with this film. The biggest is the fact
that after Lecter escapes, the film grinds to a halt. It takes a good
while for the film to pick up again, but thankfully it does. Also, the
reason why Lecter is taken from his original cell to the one he escapes
from is not really clear.But, this is a masterpiece of a film, disturbing, chilling and
thrilling all at the same time, with a majesty that rivals and maybe
even surpasses the master of the genre, Alfred Hitchcock.

******
2 November 2009
8
The Silence of the Lambs is a chilling story depicted through the
dissection and analysis of a genius cannibalistic serial killer
Hannibal Lector played by Anthony Hopkins. Director Johnathan Demme
uses Clarice Starling played by Jodie Foster to play on Hannibal
Lector's manipulating intelligence. Clarice is originally selected by
the head of FBI's behavioral Science unit Jack Crawford to track down a
notorious serial killer nicknamed Buffalo Bill. Crawford asks Clarice
to meet with Dr. Hannibal Lector in order to find the whereabouts of
buffalo bill. This constant interaction between Clarice and Dr. Lector
makes for an exciting mind game played on both sides. Director Johnathan Demme's use of dark emphasis on reality combined
with Anthony Hopkins assertive and sadistic abilities as an actor makes
for great chemistry. Jodie Foster's "matter a fact" persona is
presented as a challenge to Dr. Lector. This relationship is
established at the beginning and continuously unraveled as the story
progresses. On one occasion Clarice meets with Dr. Lector who is
sitting behind bullet proof glass inside his windowless cell. Dr.
Lector finds is release through the analysis of Clarice's life. Clarice
uses her disturbing past to compensate for links to Buffalo Bill. Dr.
Lector eventually falls for Clarice's pursuit and gives her a clue that
leads to one of Dr. Lector's past patients. From this point Clarice
takes her findings back to Dr. Lector in hopes of finding Buffalo Bill
who has now abducted Catherine Martin, the daughter of Senator Ruth
Martin. With the severity of the situation on Clarice's back she is
forced to come up with an answer. Knowing this she makes a deal with
Dr. Lector's request of transferring to a different facility in return
for finding buffalo bill.Johnathan Demme brings a new definition to the word climax. Demme's use
of scenery and dictation of characters like buffalo bill and Hannibal
Lector seeks out an eerie pocket that most viewers are not used to
experiencing. Camera angles and screen shots help to put you in the
shoes of Clarice and buffalo bills hopeless victims. Although Clarice
attempts to portray herself as a mentally tough FBI official we see Dr.
Lector's tactics of recalling her childhood past begin to eat away at
her. This struggle brings Clarice's true personality out which ties
into a remarkable conclusion. Demme is attempting to bring you into the
mind of mad genius. Through the harshness of reality seen in Clarice's
past, Dr. Lector's actions and buffalo bills intentions we begin to
think there is no hope. Demme brings you so far down into the plot that
you begin to transcend your thoughts and emotions as those of the young
lady trapped by Buffalo Bill. You have that real sense that you cannot
expect a successful conclusion to the multi-dimensional plot as
portrayed through multi-dimensional characters.

******
26 August 2009
8
Everyone knows this one; it's a pop culture gem and an icon in the
realm of detective/thriller movies. Clarice Starling and Hannibal
Lector, an unstoppable pairing and a pleasure to watch - Anthony
Hopkins' performance is amazing, and Jodie Foster is always smart,
snappy and cute as hell. The supporting actors are okay, sometimes
becoming a little hammy or whatever, but never distracting from the
film.I think the main selling point of this is Hannibal himself, whose
psychological musings and mind games make this movie stand out from
others of its kind. Just take a look at his talks with Clarice Starling
in the mental asylum - that is chilling. The other inmates are kind of
creepy, but they're more silly than anything, and are overshadowed by
Lecter himself. The dialogue in these scenes is just great, worth the
whole price of admission by itself.The movie flows well, wasting no time and generally being solid in
every area, albeit not truly astounding in any of them, either. The
story is basically as solid a detective story as you'll get, with every
scene making you wonder what is about to happen next. Perhaps the most
exciting part of the movie has nothing at all to do with the whole
serial killer deal, as it is when Hannibal escapes from prison. You
have to see it to find out what I mean - it is truly electrifying and
suspenseful.If you haven't seen this yet, you should rectify that immediately. This
is a definite genre classic and certainly one any self-acclaimed movie
buff needs to see. Recommended.

******
18 March 2008
10
This movie sets the bar. From the acting to editing, from the score to
the cinematography, there isn't an aspect of the movie that I'd change,
nor is there an aspect that does not stay with me for hours and days
after I watch the film.Hopkins puts on a clinic. The brilliance of his performance is his
ability to captivate the viewer and Agent Starling with his gifts of
psychological study and underlying aristocratic being while also
delving ever so suddenly into moments of sheer lunacy. He lets the
animal out of the cage so flawlessly and so momentarily that its just
amazing to realize that its all an act.Then there are the minute details, and side characters. I love Demme's
underlying 'woman in a man's world' theme that he never overtly
introduces. Instead, he just puts Foster in these great scenes, the
best of which is just before she examines the body found in W.
Virginia, where she is left in a room with a dozen W. Virginia state
cops. Classic. Then there are the characters, like the moth experts or
the latest victim's distraught father who lets Foster into his home to
examine the victim's bedroom or the cops who try to catch Hannibal when
he escapes in Memphis. All are peripheral characters, but they all
resonate, they all somehow fit perfectly. I cant explain it, but
nothing takes away, everything just adds to this movie, and it truly
will be one of my favorites for as long as I live.

******
29 February 2008
10
I have seen this movie so many times and every time it gets better and
better.What makes it so special you ask?Well the great actors for
start.Sir Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter is the best choice for the
role.He was born to play the brilliant but psychopathic at the same
time cannibal with a taste for livers.I have read the book three times
and be sure that the movie follows it closely.Jodie Foster as the
unexperienced but intelligent Clarice Starling is also the most perfect
choice.She gives depth to her character and it shows.Scott Glenn is
great as her mentor Jack Crawford.Wonder why Glenn never became a
bigger star he sure deserved it with his performance here.Be warned
that the movie has quite a few chills and will take you to the edge
with its intense music score and actors.Director Jonathan Demme created
a masterpiece and Thomas Harris should be proud.Hannibal and The Red
Dragon are good on their own but they just can't touch this movie.Its
just too perfect to compare to.

******
7 February 2008
10
"The Silence of the Lambs" is a breathtakingly amazing movie about an
FBI agent who is on a mission to find an unknown killer. She is sent to
question an insane former doctor, Hannibal Lector for clues that may
lead the FBI to finding out more about or where the serial killer may
be. "The Silence of the Lambs" is one of the greatest dramatic
thrillers I have ever seen, and is definitely the greatest film staring
Antony Hopkins and Jodie Foster. The story is excellent and the acting
is phenomenal. As you watch the movie you will notice as FBI agent
Clarice visits Dr. Lector more often to get further information you
will notice that there is a relationship that develops between the two
of them, it is actually really quite amazing to see the way they
interact with each other as the film unfolds. This movie is a true
classic and can not be compared with any other movie in it's genre.
This is a very great movie, and that's an understatement.

******
24 January 2008
10
(To Readers: I am forced to write this article for an English writing assessment, I personally liked the FilM VERY MUCH!!!)In recent years, Hong Kong became flooded by countless numbers of
horror movies involving bloody and violent scene. If you are a fan of
this, you might be in favor of this film directed by Jonathan Demme.I personally liked horror (or more precisely , thriller movies, such as
Stanely Kubrick's THE SHINING) films, which aim at producing a
thrilling atmosphere, but not actually showing one. THE SILENCE OF THE
LAMBS is an excellent example of the kind of thrillers showing shocking
scenes. The plot was fine and suspending. However, it was screwed up by
the over-emphasis Hannibal Lecter's violence (the scene of the guard
being disemboweled and hung on the wall was notorious for causing
discomfort).Another aspect we can take a look at is about the preproduction of the
movie Maybe due to the over-emphasis of violence in the script written
by Ted Tally, Gene Hackman an actor who was originally invited to
become the director of the film, turned downed the invitation in the
end. Even in looking for actors playing the roles of CLARICE STARLING
and HANNIBAL LECTER has been a great difficulty for the production.
Four actresses (including Michelle Pfeiffer, Kim Basinger, Emma
Thompson and Meg Ryan) rejected the invitation due to 'the subject
matter', as Michelle Pfeiffer said. Sean Connery was originally offered
the role of Hannible, but in the end, he refused. Thus we can see from
the responses of the actors and actresses that have refused to play a
role in the movie, that it is focusing too much on violence.In addition, some main features such as Hannibal's 'maroon eyes' and
his 'six-fingered left hand', were missing in the movie. With such
advanced technology nowadays, these special features can be made real
without any difficulties.Although I really did not enjoy the movie (probably the unforgettable
bloody scene have created a bad image for me), I would recommend this
movie to those who enjoy bloody thrillers, as the violent scenes will
leave you nightmares lasting at least a month.

******
3 January 2008
7
It seems as if Dr.Lector is so devoid of emotion and empathy, so
removed from human emotion, that he has 'quid pro quo' games with
Clarice having her reveal emotional memories to him, with him
sublimating them almost as a 'vampire' revels in drinking blood. Thus I
thought it quite apt the a policeman asks Clarice if Lector is a
'vampire'. Indeed he is, but he doesn't want blood. Lector is so
totally devoid of emotion, or suffering depression to such a desperate
degree, that he has to resort to the most heinous act possible,
cannibalism, to evoke any emotion, any feeling whatsoever. Lector is
indeed dead inside - no good, no bad, no nothing - that is the ultimate
tragedy of this empty shell of a man. Lector is played as a man who
always has a quiet steady voice and even indulges in classical music as
he commits acts of cannibalism. The scene in which Hopkins talks to the
camera is nothing short of miraculous. Ted Levine as Jame 'Buffalo
Bill' Gumbis also is nothing short of astounding in his portrayal of
someone seriously lost mentally, a man who so despises his own flesh,
that he adorns himself in the flesh of others, to achieve a feeling a
normalcy. A great movie about sanity and insanity with magnificent
actors at their best.

******
13 July 2007
9
Why it deserves a spot: The Silence Of The Lambs is perhaps one of the
greatest movies ever made. Definitely in the Top 10 of the past 25
years. In fact, it's one of the three movies that have swept away the
five major Academy Awards; the other two being It Happened One Night
(1934) and One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest (1975). Almost everything
about this movie is fantastic. The only reason it's ranking being so
low is because I don't consider it a pure horror film. On my all time
list it ranks much higher.The Acting: Wow. This is one of the best acted movies ever made. Both
Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins deserved their Oscars. Ted Levine
should have at least gotten a nomination. Without Anthony Hopkins this
movie wouldn't be as successful. He recreated the character of Hannibal
Lecter.The Gore: There's not too much to work with on this movie. It didn't
need it. There are a few scenes including cannibalism.The Suspense/Thrills: This movie has tons of suspense and thrills.
Almost every scene has something to be nervous about. The final scene
in which Clarice is being chased by Buffalo Bill is almost unbearable.Scary Factor: 6.5/10

******
20 May 2007
8
This film would have to be the most suspenseful drama in years, right
up there with "Fatal Attraction", and in the best Hitchcockian
tradition. The tantalisation of scares that are not quite delivered,
and the ones that are keep you on the edge of your seat from scene one.
Jonathan Demme knows exactly when to use subtlety, and does it
superbly. "Lambs" continually intrigues, shocks, disturbs and
fascinates, and the subtle humour works well in a dark fashion.Jodie Foster deserves an Oscar for her frantic, tense performance as an
FBI trainee searching desperately for a serial killer. Even more
deserving is Anthony Hopkins, who is disturbingly charming and chilling
as Doctor Hannibal 'the cannibal' Lecter, who trades with agent
Starling (Foster) for 'information'. All supporting cast are excellent
in a film that delivers a knockout punch. Owes a lot to scripting
(original story by Thomas Harris), tense music (Howard Shore),
cinematography and editing!"Silence of the Lambs" deserves Academy nominations in all categories
(Best Film, Director, Actor, Actress etc). BRILLIANTSaturday, May 11, 1991 - Knox District CentreFriday, May 24, 1991 - Knox District CentreSunday, June 23, 1991 - Village Centre MelbourneDemme's masterpiece is a superb psychological thriller; however the
first time viewer will enjoy this one the most.Friday, January 17, 1992 - Video

******
20 November 2006
7
Granted, THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS is a great thriller. On a humanistic
level, I prefer RED DRAGON, for its marvelous payoff at the end and for
its humane characterization of the villain (played by Ralph Fiennes).
But back to THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS. Despite its grandeur, there is a
huge flaw in the script. Yves Lavandier has expressed it well in his
book WRITING DRAMA.Remember. To help Clarice understand Buffalo Bill's mentality, her
superior (Scott Glenn) suggests she visit another serial killer,
Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins). Lecter is reputed to be fiendishly
manipulative. Clarice is warned by her superior: "You tell him nothing
personal. Believe me, you don't want Hannibal Lecter inside your head."
The warning is clear-you do so at your peril. Soon afterwards, we learn
that Lecter has driven the man in the next cell to commit suicide. And
it is very clear to us that Clarice will need to be extremely cautious.
When Lecter, at their first meeting, asks her questions about her
private life, we feel concern. When, at their next meeting, Clarice
starts to talk about herself, we fear the worst. But nothing
happens-Clarice opens up but suffers no consequences. Her superior's
warning and Clarice's subsequent attitude do not lead to a payoff.I was disappointed by this unkept promises since it represents a lost
opportunity for further conflict. But there is more to it than that. If
the writers had established a close link between Clarice's confidences
and Lecter's subsequent break-out-the former contributing to the
latter, for example-not only would the film have gained in rigour and
unity of action, it would also have shown more clearly that in order to
catch one dangerous psychopath, the FBI trainee has been obliged to
allow free another, much more dangerous psychopath. In other words, the
powerless of American society would have been demonstrated more
convincingly.Another missed opportunity.

******
23 March 2006
10
I will never forget the lines "I ate his liver with fava beans and a
nice chianti" that devilishly grotesque slurping haunted me. Anthony
Hopkins was absolutely one of my favorite "antagonists" of all time
even if he only had 16 minutes of screen time. Never a wider use of
psychopaths in one film to freak me out. This movie proves that indeed
keep your friends close keep your enemies even closer. Just the fact of
looking at this typically normal looking man and knowing he eats people
made me believe that my granpa could just as well eat me. This movie
truly scared me. I would recommend this to absolutely any one. I give
it ***** out of*****.

******
8 March 2006
10
The Silence Of The Lambs is my absolute favorite movie of all time. It
is chilling, thrilling and entertaining. The plot is intelligent. So
are the dialogs. The acting is awesome, especially Hopkin's performance
as Hannibal Lector is outstanding. The movie has several memorable
characters. The character of Hannibal Lector is especially interesting.
He is highly intelligent but at the same time an absolute psychopath.
He is in prison but still he is a permanent threat.The Silence of The Lambs is the second part of the trilogy and by far
the best. You don't need to watch Red Dragon before watching this movie
in order to understand the plot but since Red Dragon is a good movie
you might as well watch it too. (I'd rate Red Dragon 8.5/10 while
Hannibal is a 7/10).In conclusion, The Silence Of The Lambs is the most suspenseful movie
ever made.

******
4 July 2005
9
I'm shocked nobody caught this: When they're flying in the C-130
supposedly headed somewhere in Illinois, somebody did notice that the
terrain below is clearly Southern California, but nobody noticed that
"California Air Guard" is written in large, legible letters on the side
of the aircraft as it banks away. (Note: you can stop reading now.)Man, apparently I need 10 lines of text to submit this. That sucks. All
I wanted to do is share a ridiculous goof with the world, but the Man
is keeping me down. One of my friends once told me to "not let the Man
get me down" and I will not. I must reach 10 lines, even if it kills
me, or if my fingers get sore, or whatever is the worst that could
happen in the process of reaching this feat. Oh. Look. I did it. Yay.
Okay, I'm done.

******
10 March 2005
10
this movie was really good. it had a lot of twists and was very
creative. i really recommend this movie. if you like Texas chainsaw
massacre you will like this. it isn't really gory though. its more of a
suspense movie than a horror movie or a slasher movie. this is one of
my all time favorite movies!!!! some images are disturbing but not like
a person getting their cut off or anything of that sort. i wouldn't
recommend this to a person younger than 13 because of brief nudity and
a few crude comments and some disturbing images. this is more of a
dramatic suspense movie. if you don't like bugs don't let the cover
fool you. the whole movie does not have the moths in it. there are only
three scenes in it with the moths so you will have time to cover your
eyes. i hope this is some what helpful!!!!!

******
24 January 2005
8
Having seen Hannibal before this and enjoying it, I really got my hopes
up since this was supposed to be even better (after all, it won 5
Oscars). And in many ways it is. Agent Clarice Starling has just joined the FBI and her first assignment
is to track down a serial killer known as Buffalo Bill. To do that, she
enlists the help of Dr. Hannibal Lecter, an infamous cannibal who is
being held at a maximum security psychiatric hospital. From there on it
is an excellent duel between Lecter and Starling, both delivering top
notch performances (though unfortunately, we don't see too much of
Lecter). As the FBI is closing in on Buffalo Bill, Lecter is growing
over Starling. Though at first she was instructed to only 'get the
goods and nothing else', she crosses that line. And from there it
continues into the hunt for Buffalo Bill and the relationship between
the two main characters. This movie was above all a thriller. It was tense, interesting and
included everything that one could hope for. However, despite being
listed so, it is not a horror. There are a few remote and moderately
creepy elements but nothing to truly send chills down your back. The
direction by Jonathan Demme I would describe as competent. It is strong
but in a few places I felt that he could have made it a bit creepier
and maybe even bloodier. Tak Fujimoto's cinematography which in this
movie is represented by a heavy use of steadicam and well used
hand-held shots is excellent and right on the mark. Overall an excellent thriller. 8/10

******
14 March 2004
7

How did this do so well at the Oscars ? I'm not questioning the merit of the
awards, just that it's not the sort of film you would expect to walk away
with many of the leading gongs. The main story follows the FBI investigation into the series of murders
attributed to Buffalo Bill. Clarice Starling (Foster) is a student agent who
is sent to interview Cannibal killer Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins). During these
interviews it becomes clear that Lecter had met Bill as a patient when he
worked as a psychiatrist. Will Clarice be able to get Lecter to disclose who
Bill is before Bill kills again ? Very good movie with excellent
performances from the 2 leads and well worthy of the academy's recognition.
8/10

******
31 March 2003
7
...It has a major flaw. Why would you only have two guards and no
closed-circuit TV when Lector was moved to the court house for temporary
keeping? Think about it, you have the most intelligent and resourceful
serial killer in history and you have two guards???Other than that, the movie is excellent.

******
28 December 2002
7

Basically, although this is far from perfect, the Silence of The Lambs is
a
good movie.
Although since Red Dragon (the storyline is actually set before the
Silence
of the Lambs however made after the movie) has come out, the Silence of
the
Lambs has been over-hyped, to the point where it's laughable.Highlights of this movie are Jodie Foster's performance as an FBI agent
and
Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal 'the cannibal' Lector.

******
23 July 2002
8

While this film was great, it still pales 
in comparison to the vastly superior SE7EN. 
What I did enjoy about this film was the 
exceptional use of light and the sets. However, 
the bad guy proved to be one of the lamest 
excuses for a villain ever. Not only was he 
ridiculous, his intentions were revealed too 
early, making the suspense of his evil far too 
easy to comprehend. While I will say the 
characters were interesting, the overall 
scope of the film was muddled. What was 
supposed to be scary proved to be lacking. 
Anthony Hopkins was good in the film, but 
much like the villain, his evil was too 
caricaturized to make him evil. The direction 
was exceptional, and Jodie Foster was good, 
but little else seemed to impress me. 

******
13 June 2001
9

It's not very often that a first class cast and a fine director come
together to bring life to an absolutely wonderful screenplay as they do in
The Silence of the Lambs. Ted Tally's script is a brilliant adaptation to a good book. It is unmatched
in its use of characterization. The story is simple yet it works on a
psychological level, thanks to the infamous Hannibal Lecter and his mind
games with Clarice Starling.Jonathan Demme's direction is good. His close-ups of various actors' faces
are well done and well placed in the film. Demme effectively creates some
very suspenseful moments, in the film, through his direction and his use of
the first person point of view.Anthony Hopkins delivers the greatest, most riveting performances ever, as
the psychotic Dr. Hannibal `Cannibal' Lecter. Jodie Foster also delivers a
brilliantly subtle performance as FBI trainee, Clarice Starling. Ted Levine
does a wonderful job as the disturbed Jame "Buffalo Bill" Gumb. Scott Glenn
gives a commendable performance as Jack CrawfordHoward Shore gives a wonderfully haunting musical score that adds a lot of
atmosphere to the film. Tak Fujimoto's cinematography is also first-rate. His use of lights,
especially red lights to make the audience uneasy, is very effective.The editing by Craig McKay is marvelous, particularly the intercutting
between the exterior of the wrong house in Calumet City and the interior of
the right house in Belvedere, Ohio. All of these aspects make The Silence of the Lambs one of the greatest, if
not the greatest film ever made. 


******
8 June 2001
10

Jodie Foster has said that she liked this story because the heroine got to
be genuinely heroic--though sometimes in danger, she was never cast as a
victim (a rule flagrantly broken in "Hannibal," one of the many reasons why
it'll never count as an authentic sequel to "Lambs.") Clarice Starling is
the most imaginatively realized female character in American film history,
as well as one of its few genuinely believable action heroes. It's easy to
forget how important Foster's Clarice is to the precision balance of this
drama. Without a worthy adversary/love object, Hannibal wouldn't be quite so
impressive.

******
13 May 2001
9

The Silence Of The Lambs is one of the best crime thrillers ever in my
opinion. 
I'd heard a lot about it being great before I finally saw it last year (I
had to search a lot to get a copy of it because, for some reason it's been
deleted in the UK).
The acting is brilliant and it's not too gory.
A modern classic.
Make sure you see it soon, I don't think it's possible to hate
it!

******
12 January 2001
7

I saw this one at the cinema and came out wondering what all the fuss was
about. It was reasonably entertaining but annoying at the same time. I like
Anthony Hopkins as an actor but he was hamming it up as Lecter and made the
charcter look cartoonish rather than scary. Jodie Foster gave a good
impression of a woman trying to reverse out of a parking space.What surpised me most about this film was that it won several Oscars
including best film. It's obvious to me now that the people at the Academy
know less about film than most five year olds. Remember when Kramer v Kramer
won best film, that was the year Apocalypse Now was released and who can
remember the former?I've learned my lesson since then and have avoided Oscar winners such as
Titanic and The English Patient. Silence of the Lambs is an above average
thriller but no work of art. The plot is also absurd and goes for cheap
thrills with the usual gore and when Buffalo Bill gets his kit off you
simply have to yawn, it didn't shock me. As for his victim in the pit,
somehow you just wish Bill would end it for the poor girl and the suffering
audience. In summary! Not as good as Manhunter and not the best of Hopkins!
7/10

******
28 March 1999
7

The movie is a solid thriller, or I'd rather call it a crime story, but
there's not so much that makes it special and I think all in all it's a
bit
overrated.A good thing about it is that apparently much effort has been made to
shoot
it very beautifully, carefully and unobtrusively. I mean, you don't see
any
really brutal scenes. Basically, I really appreciate this. Nor is it up to
shock effects and frightening scenes in any sensational way. I still hope
it's possible to take away these features without taking away intensity...
they didn't manage.I wanted to get scared when I watch the movie but I didn't. (Nearly) All
the
scenes are good, the story isn't too bad, but it all lacks the connection,
the fluent, flawless line. Thus we don't get worthy intensity, worthy
suspense, worthy fright. After all, the movie is Jodie Foster, a bunch of
other actors and beautiful photography.I mention Jodie Foster because she carries the movie, if simply with her
being Jodie Foster. I don't mention Anthony Hopkins because he is less a
character and more the scenes he's in. The scenes are good and they are
due
to him.The scene at the airport is given a flair of importance by the appearance
of
Diane Baker, the way she appears - that's for instance what I mean by the
movie belongs to the actors - the surroundings - belongs to photography
and
yes, I guess I connect this to art direction.It's a good movie.
Its problem: 5 Oscars and a flood of highest praise.
My vote: 7 out of 10

******
12 October 1998
7

The Silence of The Lambs has many things going for it: superb acting,
cinematography, music, direction, and a tension-filled script, but I really
have a problem in that it indirectly glorifies a serial killer. Hannibal
Lecter has practically become a cultural icon, which I think speaks ill for
the direction our society has taken, when a cannibalistic monster has the
brains and the guts we admire (no pun intended).

******
2 November 2014
5
Unfortunately, It is disappointment movie. I had high expectation and i
assume thought The Silence of the Lambs was the best serial killer
movie but it was not. Scenario is not bad, hoverer is not good. Cause scenario is based on
novel. I believe there was no thrill and fear. Everythnig was ordinary
Jonathan Demme did not direct very well. There was one good side in movies; it was Anthony Hopkins cause he
acted wonderful. In The Silence of Lambs, he was calm person like a
serial killer. He deserved Academy Award for Best Actor. 5/10

******
25 September 2010
10
I saw it recently again, and I'm surprised how weak her acting skills
were at the time. I'm not even sure why they picked her: I remembered
her as somewhat mousy, but boy, does she look like a secretary. Not
only that, on repeated viewings, it's obvious her character was written
much smarter than she is: out of the blue, she suddenly burps out
something very clever, but you can tell by her delivery and the look in
her eyes that she just would have been able to come up with that on her
own. Very weird.Another thing that occurred to me this time, how come the nurses in the
asylum are so, I don't know, sympathetic to Lecter? At the very
beginning, we're told that he gruesomely and cold-heartedly maimed a
nurse (presumably female) while she was trying to give him an EKG.
Granted, he always 'justifies' his killings (most of them patients of
him, often revolting, like his cell mate), but still. I could never
treat a man maiming someone who was trying to help him with anything
except extreme contempt and caution. The nurses, they seemed OK with
him.Still immensely watchable, but I see a lot more faults now than I
remembered.

******
29 November 2007
10
One of the greatest thrillers of all time,Silence of the Lambs delivers
all the chills and thrills to make it a top notch movie in it's genre
as it joins other great movies such as Misery,The Shining. It is only
the third movie to win the Oscar Grand Slam which consists of Academy
Award for Best Picture,Best Actor,Best Actress,Best Director and Best
Writing.The only other two movies to accomplish this legendary feat
include One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest and It Happened All One Night.
Jodie Foster stars as Clarice Starling(her second Oscar winning role)
who is a young FBI trainee who is sent to ask Dr Hannibal
Lecter(Anthony Hopkins in his best role to date which won him an
Academy Award) who is a brilliant psychiatrist and cannibalistic serial
killer for advice on catching a serial killer known only as Buffalo
Bill. As mentioned above,this film one five Academy Wards which include
Best Director-Jonathan Demme,Best Picture,Best Actor-Anthony
Hopkins,Best Actress-Jodie Foster and Best Adapted Screenplay.Bravo to
this modern classic film.

******
30 July 2007
7
The Silence of the Lambs is considered by many to be a modern classic.
Even the DVD informs you its the thriller all others are measured
against. Although I did enjoy TSOTL, I'm not sure if it has the
components necessary to make it a true classic. Its not the masterpiece
it's often made out to be.Certainly you can understand its appeal. Its a story that comes with a
rich premise ripe for delving into dark, psychological corners. Thomas
Harris' novel was a wonderfully compelling page-turner. A tightly wound
thriller that sent my pulse racing.But the film skates over some of the things that made Harris' novel so
wonderful. I'm not saying its a terrible film. Far from it. Jonathan
Demme's direction is excellent, with lots of brilliant camera tricks.
And he gets a superb performance out of Jodie Foster. Clarice Starling
is the best thing she's ever done. She won a well deserved Oscar for
the part. But still, the film doesn't always satisfy like it should.Everyone knows the story. FBI trainee Starling is assigned to glean
information from incarcerated serial killer, Dr Hannibal Lecter
(Anthony Hopkins) concerning the whereabouts of another serial killer
on the loose, Buffalo Bill. A former patient of Lecters, he's killed
and skinned several women. Starling and Lecter's interrogation sessions
become a slowly spreading invasion within the background of Starling's
emotionally fragile psyche. All the while Buffalo Bill has himself a
new victim, and Lecter is already planning his escape.First I will praise the film's merits. Yes it does have excellent
performances. The scenes between Starling and Lecter are electrifying.
They're the high-point of the whole film. And Demme does superb things
with his camera. I like the way he shoots many of Clarice's scenes from
her POV, like when she descends several staircases and goes through
several doors at the asylum until she finally meets Dr Lecter.He stands straight. Perfectly still. Almost waiting in anticipation for
Clarice. They lock eyes. He reads things about her. From her body
language. The look of nervous anguish she tries to bury. Examining
first her face. Then her temporary FBI badge. Sniffing her perfume
through the holes in the glass partition. The only thing keeping them
apart. He runs off a number of things about her personality. Capped by
the surprising concern he shows when she's attacked by another
cell-mate.That one scene is quite wonderful. Both Hopkins and Foster shine in
this moment, arguably the best one they share. There are times when
you're not sure who has the upper hand. Lecter gets under her skin. But
you can tell Starling hits a nerve when she questions his choices in
life. Just listen to the sharp clang the steel drawer makes when Lecter
shoves a psychological profile Clarice brought back in her face. That's
more jarring than his infamous Chianti speech.Although much has been made of Hopkins' admittedly impressive
performance, Jodie Foster is the real star. She gives a perfectly
balanced blend of tough resolve and emotional fragility. The way
expressions play out over her face are easily decipherable and greatly
accessible. She doesn't make any grand gestures. The pain of her
troubled childhood and the growing horrors of her work are communicated
in her beautifully expressive eyes. She's the heart and soul of the
picture. Jodie Foster is one of my favourite actresses, and she
inhabits the role of Clarice Starling so well, there comes a time when
it stops being acting.You could say the same of Hopkin's quietly sinister performance.
Hopkins learned not to blink his eyes for extended periods. Something
he utilises to great effect. I love the scene when Lecter is probing
Clarice while she's talking about the time she ran away from home.
Demme has the camera right in his face. Resolved. Implacable.
Unrelenting. Its a frightening scene of equal manipulation and concern
on Lecter's part.The film is less successful in its supporting cast. Scott Glenn is OK
as Jack Crawford, Starling's superior. But he's only designed to be
there when the plot is moving along. Anthony Heald's Dr Chilton is
purely one-dimensional. There's no depth to his character. And I was a
bit disappointed with Ted Levine's Buffalo Bill. A transvestite making
a coat from women's flesh. The film tries to craft a similar
relationship between Levine and Catherine Martin, his abductee, in the
same manner as Lecter and Starling. A killer and an innocent. But it
doesn't work the same way. The chemistry just isn't there.One thing I liked about the book was I got the impression Dr Lecter was
pulling the strings from the comforts of his jail cell. I didn't always
get that same impression with the film. Not to criticise Demme's
direction. He keeps things moving at a brisk pace. But still, he throws
in a few hackneyed ideas here and there, e.g. anagrams with hidden
clues, to keep things moving.And I'm not sure I believe Lecter's method of escape. It seems a bit
ridiculous to me. And it makes fools out of real SWAT teams. The ending
seems hard to believe too. I didn't buy for a second an FBI trainee
would be sent into such a potentially dangerous situation, even if she
thought it wasn't the home of the killer. Although it does build up to
a tense, well sustained climax in the blacked out interior of Buffalo
Bill's basement. Where we see through his night vision goggles, leering
at a frightened and bewildered Clarice. Images of his hand reaching out
for her are scary as hell, and reminds me of John Carpenter's
techniques in Halloween.The Silence of the Lambs is undeniably an enjoyable effort that
occasionally digs into some dark areas. But it doesn't quite do the
novel justice. Excellent performances from Hopkins and Foster. Superb
direction too. But its lacking that essential ingredient, brilliance,
to elevate it to classic status.

******
13 July 2007
9
Seriously, this film is regarded as one of the best films of all time
and deservedly so. Jonathan Demme is at his absolute best here building
suspense and tension into a blend of physical and psychological terror
rarely matched in film.But, the reason this film works and kicks so much ass has everything to
do with its stars: Jodie Foster (Genius) and Sir Anthony Hopkins
(Knight). The chemical reaction that takes place between these two on
screen is so palpable and acidic you find yourself hardly able to
watch.Their dynamic is what sets this film apart from any other serial
killer/horror/suspense/thriller ever made. The verbal jousting never
wains when they are on screen. These are mind games unlike any other
portrayed in the movies before or since.This is a must see for horror film lovers, suspense film lovers, and
just plane film lovers. A great movie.

******
10 October 2004
7
An FBI operative seeks the help of a convicted serial killer in the
search for one still active.This film features some very good acting. Not great acting, mind you,
because the roles don't involve evolving before our eyes. The
characters have evolved before they hit the screen.Thomas Harris is one of the cleverest novelists around. He is both a
good writer and a clever writer: Plenty of good writers write novels
about subjects that don't engage the general public, but are well
written and deserve to be read. They write for a small audience and, if
they are lucky, sales keep the author fed, sheltered and clothed until
the next one comes out.However Harris is also a clever writer in that he chooses the material
of cheap thrillers (serial killers - zero points for originality!) and
writes about them with the care and attention that is normally reserved
for our friends in the former paragraph. The subject is taking him to
the top of the ladder - not his care with words.There is something slightly bizarre a-foot here. This is a film based
on cheap thrills and tension, which I could live with if the reviewers
(of all colours) weren't so precious about it all.This film takes a lot of time and trouble over minor details and yet
major plot lines are clearly S-T-U-P-I-D. Actors sit in on FBI lessons
to learn technique and procedure then Agent Starling goes and visits
Lector ON HER OWN!(Yes isn't it amazing how quickly common-sense - no matter the FBI rule
book - is thrown away when it gets in the way of an easy tension
device!)There is a lot right with this film and a lot wrong with it too.
Thrillers have no other role other than thrill and thrill it does, but
I hate the authors coded references that only he and a few PhDs/crime
authors can understand. Private jokes are snobbery.(I am glad that IMDb have a trivia section for this movie it answered a
lot of my questions. With Harris every "stray" phrase has a story
behind it.)Killer Lector is a bit like Huggy Bear in Starsky and Hutch. He knows
everything about everything and it is a shame he is not the policeman
because all serious crime would be solved in five minutes! Yes we have
to have some device for throwing these people together (however silly),
but how does he know all this info from his well guarded cell. Is he on
some private "serial killer" bulletin board?("Hey guys - that woman that was sliced up in to six pieces in Houston
-- that was me....")A lot of people got a lot of enjoyment from this film and I thought it
was quite good too, but it is also slightly sick. The subject matter is
worthy of our attention, but I am uneasy about it being served up as
"great art" and given Oscars.This about as much "great art" as the musical Grease. Take away the
horror movie stunts (or film them in a more benign way) and it would
have flopped at the box office.Also to be noted is that this is a "strong woman" picture - if Agent
Starling was a man most women would have marked it a point or two lower
than they have. I hope that isn't read as a sexist observation.

******
8 October 2002
6

"Silence of the Lambs" is a great, solid thriller with superb performances
by its two leads, Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins.  Yet I was not as
thrilled (or as terrified) with it when it came out back in 1991.  I felt
that its showering of Oscars and praise was slightly unwarranted.  I just
don't think it's anywhere near being the greatest thriller of our day as
some gushed.  With Hannibal Lector's story still breathing (in the new
release "Red Dragon"), I think that the first attempt at filming a Thomas
Harris novel, Michael Mann's "Manhunter", was more suspenseful and
interesting than "Silence".
In all, this is a tight, well-crafted thriller.  Yet I just cannot tell you
that it was worthy of being named Best Picture by the Academy...Grade: B

******
2 May 2013
7
Heaps of praise have been given to this multiple Oscar winner by
Critics and Fans alike. It is sometimes disturbing, sometimes
terrifying, and sometimes the Characters are engaging. Sometimes.The Film is inconsistent in both style and substance. There are way too
many close ups. After a few, the intended uneasiness is lost. Most of
the sets are attractively unappealing and does give the sense of a
forbidden place. A striking performance from Hopkins but some of his cryptic inclusions
using anagrams are uninteresting and at worst confusing and make no or
little sense of irony. Jodie Foster seems forcing it, especially when
asked to reveal some secret recalling the title of the Book and Movie.
There are also some less than brilliantly enticing lectures from
Hannibal about coveting and a scribbled note that is laughably
sophomoric and we're off to catch the truly creepy Buffalo Bill.Overall it adds up to be less than it seems. Some clever stuff but it
is carelessly sewed together and with some tugging starts to unravel.
Overrated, but influential, with some disturbing and dank scenes that
make this a bumpy, irritating, and not quite completely satisfying ride
to the Dark Side.

******
20 September 2005
7
Silence of the Lambs is a movie about the madness and the psychic.This
is its greatness.I have watched Red Dragon and Hanibal before Silence
of the Lambs and i knew that it won't be better than Red Dragon but it
will be much better than Hanibal and i was right.This is the oldest
movie of the trilogy but it is a sequel of Red Dragon which was
released in 2002.Now about Silence of the Lambs.The plot is about an
FBI agent who must reveal the secret of Buffalo Bill-crazy psychopath
who is doing weird things with his victims.Her name is Clarice
Starling.She finds that Dr.Hanibal Lecter can help her with this
case.Hanibal is played by Anthony Hopkins and he is the best thing in
this movie.Really his greatest performance.The proviso is that he will
tell Clarice about Bufallo Bill and his secrets,only if she tells him
about her personal live.Her tragedy is that her father has died when
she was young.This is about the plot.Very original idea for recreation
of the life of an FBI agent fighting against pure and simple Madness.

******
3 January 2011
3
Despite the impressive credentials this so-called thriller is nothing
more than quality exploitation with highbrow pretensions, none of which
can patch the many plot holes and jarring improbabilities. The script
presents an awkward adaptation of what must have been a much fuller (if
equally unpleasant) novel, compressing the material with too many
transparent narrative gaps and shortcuts, including some amazing FBI
deductions worthy of Sherlock Holmes.The idea of using one psychopath to help catch another is intriguing,
but having two serial killers dilutes the impact of the story,
especially when it focuses more on cartoon cannibal Anthony Hopkins,
already in custody until his illogical, unlikely escape. Nothing much
is learned about the other killer-at-large (an apparent reject from a
David Lynch freak-show), and the film ends as a typical
damsel-in-distress drama with haunted house shock effects.The screenplay is overloaded with bogus psychological significance and
padded with irrelevant flashbacks, and the film was shot entirely in
blunt, video-format close-ups, with director Jonathan Demme apparently
trying to get inside the mind of his characters by simply shoving the
camera in their faces. The manhunt is also highlighted by a gratuitous
excess of explicit gore, but that doesn't stop it from having a happy
ending, for everyone involved, including cannibal/killer Hannibal
Lecter.

******
31 July 2007
5
Very overrated movie, in my opinion. Not really bad, but nothing
special either. I really don't understand what all the fuss is about.
The story is only so-so, with a few logical holes. For example, why
should one serial killer be able to understand another serial killer
better? It really makes no sense to me. The acting is good, but nothing
special either. I believe it is only so very popular because it broke
one of the last taboos (cannibalism) in a mainstream movie. But that is
not enough for a good movie. I admit I am a bit old fashioned about
movies; for some things it is better if they are not shown but only
hinted at. This sets the imagination of the viewer into work.
Unfortunately many people have lost the grasp for these subtleties.

******
15 December 2014
6
This is a movie that really doesn't live up to today's hype of how
classic and wonderful it should be. The cinematography is messy, the
plot points are stitched together the same way somebody would sew a rip
in a shirt if they forgot their glasses that day. The climax of the
movie was predictable, full of jump scares, it didn't make me think it
didn't intrigue me. The introduction of Dr. Lecter was very well done
but from then on, what happened? Not "what happened" like i'm leading
you somewhere with this so i mean it rhetorically. Now "what happened"
in the way that would give the term literally meaning i.e. 'what
happened next?' so i mean it in an investigative sense. "What happened"
as in the bad joke people like to tell when they see baby pictures "you
were such a cute kid- what happened?". I mean it in the way that your
mom meant it when, as a kid, she told your to clean your room and
she'll check in 20 minutes and she walks in to what she thinks will be
your room being clean or you cleaning but what turns out to be you
sitting on the floor distracted by a toy. Hannibal's character started
out strong (inconsistent, a little. why would they let you have a
pencil in jail? they would not) and when you needed the very core and
basis of his character's backstory to come forward and grab you he was
on the floor playing with toy trucks. That is not to say Anthony
Hopkins performance was the same as his character's writing- not at
all. Hopkins is a rare breed when it comes to acting. Everything he
does is spectacular- even if he has a disappointing character he will
deliver a great performance. I can't say the same about his female
counterpart. After this movie, it's been so hard for me to like Jodie
Foster. The whole concept of Hannibal falls so flat with this movie but
you gotta give credit to the starter of the trends

******
2 October 2013
7
"Silence of the Lambs" is the story of a young FBI trainee Clarice
Starling summons to help find one serial killer called "Buffalo Bill."
by interviewing another.I am wanted to see the holler movie in summer, and find this movie in
the SNS. Many people write that they recommend this film to watch.
Therefore, I lent it from the DVD shop. It is a little different from
Japanese hollers. Of course, it is scared me a lot. However, I am
scared of the grotesque part. The main cast is very odd. Is he a man or
ghost? I cannot understand. This film is very mysterious.It is good experience for me to watch other countries holler movie. I
become a different emotion describing to the time when I watch on
Japanese holler movies. However, this movie is also makes me much
scared. Too many thrillers, so I enjoy it very much!!

******
17 June 2013
6
I watched this movie with a tons of expectations but disappointed by a
good margin. Although all performances of main leads and especially
what everyone says Mr Hopkins - Hanibal the Cannibal is awesome and
breathtaking and Judie is cute and sharp simultaneously. May be the
plot, the suspense couldn't surprise me to the level i expected. The
only thrill is how and what the killer is going to do - once the chase
begins everything seemed so predictable if you have watched single
psycho/horror thriller.certain scenes where Hopkins somehow gets pen and opens the lock(How
!?!) and creates mask identical to prison guard and so many things
happen but nobody bothers -- is completely unbelievable.kudos to performances and characterization, one time watch !

******
28 February 2012
7
Jodie Foster, Anthony Hopkins, Scott Glenn and Ted Levine star in
Jonathan Demme's 1991 thriller based on Thomas Harris' novel. An FBI
rookie seeks help from a sociopath to find a serial killer. Clarice
Starling (Foster) is an FBI trainee who is sent by her superior, Jack
Crawford (Glenn) to interview sociopath, Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter
(Hopkins). Serial killer, Jamie Gumb aka "Buffalo Bill" (Levine)
kidnaps a senator's daughter and keeps her prisoner in his basement.
Clarice and Jack now work together with Hannibal's help to find the
killer and his victim. Hannibal also confides in Clarice to tell him
her personal life and worst fears. After Hannibal escapes, Clarice must
continue to solve the case. I remember watching this for the first time
and as soon as they showed Hannibal, I got chills down my spine. The
cast is great in this as well as Howard Shore's score. I recommend this
terrific film.

******
19 June 2008
8
The Silence of the Lambs won the Academy Award for Best Picture in
1992, and though I did enjoy Beauty and the Beast more, I can
understand this winning. It was the best of the nominated films and
overall that was a weak year. This movie is highly enjoyable with well
written and even better acted out characters, such as Anthony Hopkins
who seemed to gain the fame that he had been searching for after years
of acting with his portrayal of the psychotic Dr. Hannibal Lechter. The
direction is good, and the situations, though horrible, are also
believable. It doesn't seem to far-fetched that a serial killer would
make a coat of human skin, does it? I think the problem here is a lack
of true tension. Scenes trying to be suspenseful and tense came off
almost as clichés, and weren't nearly as scary as they could have been.FBI agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is on the case of a serial
killer who is known as Buffalo Bill, but in order to get information on
him, she must go to incarcerated psychiatrist Dr. Hannibal Lechter, who
was put away for killing and eating his victims. As the story
progresses Clarice begins to learn more and Buffalo Bill continues
killing and skinning his victims.This movie is very good, not excellent, but very good. Many critics say
this movie is so disgustingly violent, but that's just not true. Though
violence does occur, none of it was over the top, and it occurred very
infrequently throughout the picture. The acting is top notch, with as I
(and anyone else who reviewed this mentioned) said earlier, with
Anthony Hopkins pulling the most he could out of his scenes. Jodie
Foster was also very good, and so was Ted Levine as the disturbed
serial killer Buffalo Bill. The scary moments...well, for me there were
none. Any scene trying to be scary fell flat. One scene involves a
character being stalked by a man with night vision goggles in his dark
house, and that scene should have had my heart pumping for the safety
of the character, but it didn't. I found it clichéd and very typical of
any slasher film. Another thing that just didn't work for me was
constant flashbacks from Jodie Foster looking back at her traumatic
childhood. It should have had real drama, but again felt contrived and
clichéd. I also didn't like the musical score, which felt like
something that belonged on an episode of NYPD Blue, or some TV show,
and not in a good movie.Overall, this movie was great, and entertaining to watch, but it has
some faults that drop it from a thrilling adventure I want to watch
again and again to a very good movie, but a mediocre thriller.My rating: *** out of ****. 120 mins. R for language and some blood
violence.

******
21 March 2008
8
At times it seems that there aren't words to describe "The Silence of
the Lambs", it truly is an endurance trial of the mind. The film is
dark and psychologically disturbing throughout while also dealing with
issues of sexism and strength. Director Jonathan Demme's adaptation of
Thomas Harris' best-selling novel swept across the globe in 1991,
eventually winning five Academy Awards and becoming a prestigious topic
of discussion among critics.Its moody influence crept across the popular 90s sub-genre of
'serial-thriller'. This lent The Silence of the Lambs a growing
reputation for being an adult thriller of horror ike capabilities. The
mythically monstrous and deliciously manipulative Hannibal Lecter
became an immediate household name and now remains among the most
popular fictitious villains in modern cinema. Such a figure could only
be played by one man (has it become unimaginable to picture it any
other way?) that man being Anthony Hopkins, who slipped himself into
the role with matchless prestige, therefore giving birth to a cultural
icon of both literature and cinema.The movie starts with Agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) who is an
FBI trainee, being called up from her classes to acquire information
from a serial killer, Dr.Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), about a
current killer known as Buffalo Bill. Bill is a man who wishes to be a
transsexual but has been turned down for sex reassignment because of
his volatility. Starling acquires a sort of cordial relationship with
Lecter, who wishes her to divulge personal information about herself in
return for his assistance with the case. The film is tense throughout.
Scott Glenn turns in a pretty good performance as a director of the FBI
division that Starling is entering. Lecter is chilling as he gives
Starling information about Buffalo Bill and the Senator's daughter who
has been kidnapped by Bill. The film is extremely suspenseful, I felt
like yelling at the screen to tell me what was going to happen next.
The suspense is most definitely on account of the film's taking you
through out the twists and turns of your own psyche.The acting is one of the most crucial aspects of the film. Since the
film only revolves around a few characters a big cast of mixed stars in
not necessary. Instead, the quality over quantity formula works
exceptionally well. Anthony Hopkins got best actor award despite being
confined to only seventeen minutes of screen time. He does his best in
every scene and practically pours his heart as he makes such a
realistic and haunting performance.However Hannibal would obviously be a complete waste without Jodie
Foster giving an equally impressive performance. She has a nice south
American accent with a good amount of innocence to her. She is
desperate to find Bill but has a weird relationship with Hannibal along
the way. Ted Levine is the last major character in this film and
probably the whole reason why everything happens. He doesn't have much
screen time but still manages to put on a creepy and believable
performance. He is somewhat humorous but still manages to remain
sinister.The Silence of the lambs works for a lot of factors. The cast plays a
big part and so is the mood, setting, and cinematography. The movie is
very dark most of the time and the cinematography complements this
perfectly. The detail to the scenes works well as the setting is creepy
and suspenseful. Hannibal's jail cells are nicely designed and contain
a lot of aspects that show his character nicely. The movie keeps an
excellent balance of suspense and drama. It is suspenseful throughout
but has a nice dramatic element that is lacking in many films today.
The climax is pulse pounding and the film has excellent closure that
has it come full circle.Even the DVD cover scares me. I would NOT recommend this for children
obviously!!!!

******
17 January 2008
7
Director Jonathan Demme's adaptation of Thomas Harris' best-selling
novel swept across the globe in 1991, eventually winning five Academy
Awards and becoming a prestigious topic of discussion among critics.
Its moody influence crept across the popular '90s sub-genre of
"serial-thriller." This lent The Silence of the Lambs a growing
reputation for being an adult thriller (and drama) of horror-like
capabilities. The mythically monstrous and deliciously manipulative
Hannibal Lecter became an immediate household name, and now remains
among the most popular fictitious villains in modern cinema. Such a
figure could only be played by one man (has it become unimaginable to
picture it any other way?), that man being Anthony Hopkins, who slipped
himself into the role with matchless prestige, therefore giving birth
to a cultural icon of both literature and cinema.Disturbingly accurate in its portrayal of law enforcement, psychology
and crime, The Silence of the Lambs stitches a tight, finely-tuned
visage of the criminal psyche. Such a narrative instantaneously drags
the viewer into the murky underworld of criminal investigation and
dangerously murderous mind games. Jodie Foster performs as Clarice
Starling, a trainee FBI agent, with extreme ingenuity and awareness.
She is a feminist symbol and a woman rightfully fighting to succeed in
the job she so deserves, but because of gender stereotypes she finds
herself suffering from sexist reactions. Clarice gets employed by the
FBI to question the captured serial-killer and ex-psychiatrist, Dr.
Hannibal Lecter. He is believed to hold the key to capturing the
uncaught serial-killer, nicknamed Buffalo Bill. Unfortunately for
Clarice, Dr. Lecter is not keen on extracting information easily and
for personal amusement, manipulates and interrogates Clarice for every
ounce of information she receives.One of the most important aspects of Jonathan Demme's seminal thriller
is its subjective vision. Much of the camera-work deceitfully places
the viewer in the shoes of Clarice, while occasionally reverting to
even the killer's perspective of the unfolding events. Yet the key
behind the ability to frighten is when one becomes witness to the
meticulously considered process Dr. Lecter executes before providing
Clarice with the information she so desperately needs. From these
scenes we begin to learn that Clarice is suffering from her own
inner-torment and childhood anguish. Dr. Lecter is not indirect with
his queries, but deviously confrontational, allowing Clarice to
unknowingly expose her past to the audience. Many parallels are
distinctly demonstrated throughout; an example being Clarice's loss of
her parents, in contrast with Buffalo Bill's abusive childhood. The
scenes filmed between the two central characters define
"mise-en-scène", a film-making technique used to convey emotion through
set design. In this case, the clinical-looking prison ward emphasises a
character's isolated, but systematically secured state.The Silence of the Lambs is and always will be an exciting cinematic
adventure, not only for its knack of sending sudden bolts of shock
through the viewer, but for its admirable talent to tell a story. There
are plot holes and clichés littered throughout the surprisingly
unpredictable narrative; nevertheless, it will not distract you from
being more-than-momentarily immersed over the two-hour running-time.
Much of the time is spent periodically conceiving a bundle of
well-earned scares, while also allowing time for the audience to ponder
the possibilities over what will happen next. Boasting a tremendously
taut screenplay, some abrasively framed visuals and a lingering score
by composer Howard Shore, this 1991 classic is a treat for film-buffs
and casual cinema-goers alike. Even with those brief, glimmering
compliments, it is the performances which are showcase material.

******
14 July 2007
10
I have always been interested in serial killers. How exactly they go
through the process of killing their victim etc. Well, this serial
killer ridden dramatic masterpiece was a very interesting attempt to
tell of the subject.The story has potential. Clarice Starling, an FBI trainee is sent by
her boss, Jack Crawford, to Dr. Hannibal Lector. A former psychiatrist
who murdered many people, eating them shortly after. Lector is held in
an asylum in Baltimore Maryland, where he is dealt with very carefully.
Lector's brilliance and genius are renowned and he is very dangerous,
even behind bars. It will be a real advancement into the field of
forensic science to be able to unlock Lector's mind. And a huge career
advancement for Starling, but when she actually meets Hannibal, he
attacks her mind with his strange workings and is only
semi-cooperative. At the same time, another serial killer, Nicknamed
'Buffalo Bill' is on the loose who kills women to cut off parts of
their skin. Starling takes it upon herself to get information from the
reluctant Lector who directly knows the answer to the case, but he
reveals it in hints, thus Starling must interpret them before Bill
kills his next victim, who is being starved for several days in order
for her skin to loosen up.First of all, I would like to say that this movie's photographic
quality is like someone trying to curl a barbell that is barely too
heavy for them. The weight is almost lifted, but just can't be. The
photography is weighed down from an acceptable quality.This movie is overall very well directed however, the lighting is
perfect, and the other artistic elements run together very well. The
sets are well constructed, the score fits flawlessly, and the story is
handled in a gritty, disturbing manner. The entire production is just
amazingly well done, and has a very strong atmosphere.But Hopkins really makes this movie. I don't see why everyone thinks
that Foster gave such a great performance. As Lectr, he is
sophisticated, yet quite psychopathic at the same time. His performance
really makes this movie. Also worth mentioning is Anthony Heald as Dr.
Chilton who runs the asylum Lector is in. He brings a vanity and
villainy to the role that contrasts well with Hopkins's demeanor.So overall, Silence of the lambs was a very entertaining and compelling
drama. I fail to see any flaws except for a bad performance by Scott
Glen as Jack Crawford. Silnce of the Lambs will be remembered as one of
the better films of the 1990s

******
25 February 2007
7
i remember watching this movie a long time ago and not being all that
impressed.but i watched it again last night,and i have a higher opinion
of it now than i did before.it's a good film,there's no question.it's
very moody and atmospheric,yet i still think Red Dragon is a superior
film.however,did like a lot about "Silence...".i thought Scott Glenn
was excellent as Jack Crawford,Starling's(Jodi Foster)superior.i am not
a Jodi Foster fan at all,however,she did well in this movie.i still
think, though,that Julianne Moore's portrayal of Clarice Starling in
Hannibal is superior.Hopkins is brilliant of course as Hannobal
Lector.but Ted Levine is equally brilliant in his portrayal of "Buffalo
Bill". yes,"Silence..."is a very good movie,but what puzzle me is how
people revere it as much as they do.it isn't that good.it will
definitely give you chills and draw you in.the story is very
compelling.having said all that,i give SOTL 7/10

******
1 February 2007
7
A film shot entirely in and around Pittsburgh, FBI neophyte Clarice
Starling (Jodie Foster) cautiously befriends brilliant, criminally
insane Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) to enlist his help in solving
serial kidnappings and murders. Breathtakingly suspenseful and eerie.I don't want to give away too much. But its darn right creepy and
atmospheric. Finely intuitive depiction of the friction between Jodie
and Anthony was Oscar heralded and allowed Foster to reinvigorate her
audience and ratchets up the tension.Stands as the finest period documents of Pittsburg. The Silence of the
Lambs is a 1988 novel by Thomas Harris, his second to feature
sociopathic psychiatrist and cannibal Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal"
Lecter. In the novel, Clarice Starling, a young FBI trainee, is sent to
see the imprisoned Lecter in order to ask his expert advice on catching
a serial killer given the name Buffalo Bill, who is abducting women and
skinning them.

******
2 April 2004
8

With "Silence of the Lambs" (1991), Jonathan Demme achieved a masterstroke
and his movie became one of the landmark movies made in the nineties. The
reward of his efforts were the following ones: 5 Oscars in 1992 including
Best Movie and a widely deserved blockbuster.This is a movie that enjoys a performance of a high quality with, of course
Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins who dominate the cast. The former is
absolutely convincing in her role of ambitious trainee who gradually
realizes that if she wants to nab "Buffalo Bill", she has to face and
overcome her fears. All this with "a little help" from Hopkins who finds in
this movie one of his best roles and offers a remarkable and especially
unforgettable composition of his character: Hannibal Lecter. Besides,
concerning this character, more than fascination, this is nearly liking that
we feel for this monster. On another hand, his confrontations with Clarisse
are the key-moments of the movie where we can notice a careful work on the
light, the scenery and the framing.In "Silence of the Lambs", Demme plays with the spectator's nerves, avoids
as much as possible the bloody sequences and creates suspense the following
way: throughout the movie, there's a constant tension that starts with the
warnings given to Clarisse before her first meet with Lecter. Then, it
becomes more marked with Lecter's escape and it reaches a peak with
Clarisse's final dual with "Buffallo Bill". The whole is well-orchestrated
by Demme thanks to a witty making. At last, even if the end reveals an
inevitable happy-end, the very last sequence is here to remind us that one
of the two monsters in the movie is still alive and he will keep on getting
himself talked about (Hannibal, 2001).A terrific and terrifying thriller. Highly recommended and this is one of
the very few movies that will haunt you for a long time after you watched
it.

******
10 August 2002
7

Yet another overrated movie. That seems to be the theme of IMDb. Loads and
loads of overrated movies filling the top 250 and great movies like The
Truman Show and Dead Poets Society near the bottom. Anyway this, like most
overrated movies, isn't bad. It's just overrated. It's not too suspenseful,
exciting, thrilling or anything. It doesn't accomplish what it sets out to,
so it's basically a failure, although it's still entertaining and well acted
by Anthony Hopkins. But Jodie Foster sucks in everything she does except
Taxi Driver. bye.

******
11 April 2002
7

I think that this film was pretty different. It made me think of Lord of the
Flies (1990). I don't know why. This film was kind of strange, but I really
liked it. Anthony Hopkins did a really good job playing Hannibal "The
Cannibal". I really liked how he ate that cop guy. But, I don't think that
this film deserved Best Picture in 1992 in the Oscars. Overall, this a
really good film, and that everybody should go see this movie. It is worth
your money!

******
7 October 1999
7

After all the film is good, but in some scene (as that of the insect in
the
mouth) there is too taste of the horror about fetish. They could open the
dead envelope with hand more essential, instead seems to have pleasure in
the open slowly that envelope.When Antony Hopkins enters in the scene are the best moments.
High tension and psycho simulation begin to scroll on the
screen.

******
13 August 1999
7

calling this the scariest movie ever made or one of the best is a bit much.
What it is is a suspenseful, well acted thriller with a villain who is
physically as well as verbally aggressive (kind of a rarity). It's also
noteworthy for giving us a tough, but still vulnerable heroine (also a
rarity). But I don't understand why people applaud his escape at the end; to
me it's just as much of a cheat as so many horror movies where the killer is
seen in the last frames. I also don't think Lecter is as scary as Scorpio in
DIRTY HARRY or THE HITCHER's John Ryder. But as a horror fan, I was glad to
see a lot of respect paid by the Academy to this.

******
18 August 2015
5
I felt this wasn't as good as I thought it'd be. Amount of stars it got
out of ten, I didn't feel it deserved it. I'm not sure what I was
expecting but if you're looking for a really shocking thrilling twisted
storyline and you put all your hopes on this, don't.. Cause that's what
I did. I was hoping for a film where I could be almost taking part in
the investigation in the movie, but I felt it wasn't very thrilling or
anything. I love a film where the storyline is almost too unique to
think of by yourself, and hoped his would be it. But it wasn't. I
suppose I hoped for more action, more spookiness I guess we could say.
But I didn't feel any shivers up my spine anyway.

******
21 August 2009
6
This movie is very suspenseful and features incredible acting from
Anthony Hopkins as "Hannibal Lecter". Jodie Foster was also great and
played a very strong female lead as the FBI agent Clarice Starling.
This movie has a very intriguing plot, which is what made me rent it. I
found it very interesting that an FBI agent would interview a
imprisoned serial killer who is a cannibal, to find out more about
another serial killer on the loose. Hannibal is almost presented as the
good guy in some scenes. Of course, he cannot be the actual "good guy",
he sure is in contrast to that creepy Buffalo Bill. Clarice Starling is
a unit agent of the law, and Hannibal is a being who defied it, but
they are paradoxically, on the same side. This movie didn't disappoint
me but was still creepy, but then again it didn't exceed the creepiness
I expected. The Silence of the Lambs has very intense scenes mostly
involving the autopsy of a filthy cut-up person, a kidnapping, and not
to mention Hannibal eating a warden's face. It might be a good idea to
watch out for these scenes before watching. I wouldn't really recommend
that anybody under 16 watch this. The entire premise for the movie is
very disturbing itself, with the movie becoming even more unsettling
than the general plot. The Silence of the Lambs is still creepy, but I
really felt like I was watching a movie made in the 90's. It really
shows its age. It is well made for the most part, but I really think
that it's too disturbing to truly be one of the greatest movies movies
of all time, as IMDb votes would lead one to believe.

******
4 August 2008
6
This has got to be one of the most overrated movies out there. Although
it looks into the fascinating and gruesome subject of the 'mind of a
serial killer', the execution of the film in particular the acting and
the realism portrayed by most characters makes this film just another
action flick.This is the first time I saw Jodie foster and the performance was a big
let down. It didn't even come close to being real and the last part of
the film (where she (an Fbi trainee, a 5 foot something woman) single
handedly takes down the serial killer) was sooo unreal! I could not
even make myself laugh! (Watch out for the way she shakes her hand in
fear its one of the most, distant from reality acting caught on film).
In my opinion she was a big miscast. And the accent was the most
irritating thing in the whole movie. Crude. Somewhere from the US as
Hopkins refers to it.Anthony Hopkins is a very good actor and plays this part like a poker
player. But it was by no means great.This movie was by no means great. A great topic but an average movie. I
give it a healthy 6.

******
29 July 2008
6
I'm not downgrading "Silence of the Lambs" for failing to live up to
its hype, for no movie could deliver on the amount of praise this one
has received. I think it is an entertaining film, but it is hardly
realistic and breaks down in several clumsy scenes, ones which were
excessively convenient moments to advance the plot.The movie functions as a capable FBI thriller (yet is still not quite
as engrossing as something like "L.A. Confidential"). What is
engrossing about this film is kind of cheap: the fact that it is about
a couple of very disgusting serial killers. These kinds of characters
are absolute tabloid gold-mines. No wonder people are so mesmerized by
this movie: it's a decent thriller that revolves around gruesome
murders.I give Hopkins credit for doing a good acting performance, but the
character of Hannibal Lecter, PhD, is too over-the-top to be
convincing. I get it -- he's a genius and a sociopath. He's a classier
version of Maguyver (so classy he even appreciates piano sonatas!) who
has no empathy but loves riddles and tooling people around.
Entertaining but not entirely convincing. Really brilliant killers
don't wear their gifts on their sleeve.As I said, there were a few moments with supporting characters doing
stupid, clumsy, unrealistic things to advance the plot. For one thing,
nobody does their job clumsily when guarding super-brilliant cannibal
serial killers. Sorry. And methodical serial killers (as deranged as
they may be) are not clumsy when it comes to tracking someone in their
own lair.The movie is entertaining and paces well. It is certainly engrossing,
but the violence does seem over-the-top and unnecessary. Without the
obscene gore factor, this movie would not be nearly as famous as it is,
so it strikes me as a gimmick. The gore never carried any emotional
resonance or impact on the storyline. It was at times almost comical
for the way it suddenly shifted the tempo of the movie.I will say I did like the Appalachian, rust-belt, mining-town motif
that was prevalent throughout the movie and tied Jodie Foster's
character, Clarice, to the story. The contrast between Clarice, the
victims of the killer Buffalo Bill, and the seasoned murderer, Lecter,
was pretty decent. And Jodie Foster was pretty good, she's always been
a capable actress.But let's face it: the kind of cinematic thrills the mainstream
movie-going public desires cannot deliver realistic portrayals of
sociopathic killers. I mean, "No Country For Old Men" is a little
closer to the mark here, and at the center I'm thinking along the lines
of "Henry" or the more humane and psychologically driven Fritz Lang
classic, "M". Unfortunately, most movies about serial killers are all
glossed up with shiny production and sensationalized fictitious
qualities to the extent that they make these characters look glorious.
(Even "No Country" did that a little bit) The whole movie felt kinda like a Tom Clancy thriller, but with a
couple of twisted serial killers as the focal point. But it was an
archetype for both '90s films and serial killer films. So many movies
copied this one in the '90s in pacing, aesthetic and so on. Pretty much
every movie about some genius murderer is a take on this one.It's mainly worth watching for Anthony Hopkins. There are
(unfortunately?) some laugh-out-loud moments but he's not on-screen for
most of the film. Still, I didn't find the gore in this to be as
convincingly disturbing as most new episodes of South Park. This was
just grimier and less funny.

******
6 August 2006
7
I saw the film a couple of times now, and I must say that I enjoyed
each time. But give me a break, 5 Oscars? Yes, Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins
are outstanding, but the other 3 Oscars are way overpriced. No way it
is in the league of One flew over the cuckoo's nest - both movies won 5
Oscars (film, director, script, leading actor and leading actress). It
just doesn't compare.So I began to search for a reason, and part can be attributed to the
poorer quality of films produced that year. But the most part is the
conservative attitude of the Academy itself. JFK was the big winner for
me with all it 's thought provoking acting, lighting, filming and
script. Other films overlooked are cape fear and the fisher king.
Especially now that a lot of us are complaining that both directors
(Martin Scorsese and Terry Gilliam) haven't received an Oscar yet.-since my the original writing, Scorsese has won the Oscar for best
director, the departed.-And let's not forget the script written by Ted Tally. After reading the
book itself I can't help thinking that he copied the book itself with a
piece of tracing paper and cut some minor parts out. There is hardly
any change made. But maybe this can be attributed to the writer of the
book - Thomas Harris. Surely Talley's effort can't justify an Oscar.
Incidentally: Ted Tally hasn't written anything that can support this
"big effort", any guesses why...The Camera style that Jonathan Demme uses doesn't seem to work for me.
The straight in the camera that he uses to intensify the situation is
just not right, it's just forcing the situation. He uses the same thing
in Philadelphia, but to my opinion that film is overrated as well,
although not as much as this one.I give it an 7 out of 10. But this can mostly be attributed to the
performances of Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins.

******
3 January 2005
6
(EDIT: I don't know what I was thinking when I wrote this review. Just
ignore it. I'll update it someday. This is a fantastic movie. My
comments about the police force still stand, though.)I think I will cover the things I liked about this film first, since it
is a very short list:--Jodie Foster's performance. She is very believable and deserved her
Oscar. --Ted Levine's performance. He is undoubtedly one of the sickest, most
twisted villains to ever appear on screen, and, in my opinion, a lot
more scary than Hannibal.--The scene where Foster is being stalked by Buffalo Bill in his house.
Now THAT was scary. It is a classic suspense scene.Now, the things I did NOT like:--Anthony Hopkins' performance. Too grandiose and over-the-top; not
anywhere near realistic. Everyone talks about what a fantastic
performance he gives, but I think if you NOTICE what great acting
someone is doing, then they're probably overacting. Plus, his character
comes across as being actually likable... a guy you'd like to sit and
chat with. He is not scary, just mildly interesting. He apparently has
superpowers, too, since he manages to pull off the most unrealistic
jailbreak of all time. I don't know how he found the time to even THINK
of a scheme like that, much less actually do it. He outwits the entire
police force, which brings me to my next point...--The total incompetence of the FBI. I'm not sure whether this was
intentional or not, but it was ridiculous and borders on parody. The
fact that a rookie like Foster is assigned to the case is unrealistic
enough, but then she manages to crack the case All By Herself when she
discovers a key piece of information: Buffalo Bill knew his victims. NO
WAY!! My God, the girl is a genius! No other investigator with years of
experience under their belt could figure this out, but Foster the
rookie had a brainstorm and outdid them all. The local police are even
worse. They are shown as a bunch of inept morons. During the jailbreak
sequence, if it wasn't for all the human mutilation and whatnot, you'd
think you were watching an episode of "Reno 911." And finally...--The movie is sick. Sick, sick, sick. Little sympathy is shown for the
victims, and it feels like the movie is not showing these bizarre
killings as a portrait of serial killers (otherwise they might have
included actual motivations for Bill and Hannibal), but just for the
sake of being disgusting. It's shock theater, plain and simple. I said
I liked Ted Levine's performance, but his scenes were still unpleasant
to watch. I doubt most people exited the theater thinking, "Well, that
was a fascinating glimpse into the mind of a psychopath," but more
likely, "WOW! Hannibal chewed a guy's face off! COOL!" Really, what's
the point? All the scenes with Hannibal feel more like a movie script
than anything that could happen in real life. A realistic portrayal of
a cannibalistic psycho would have been scary, but the majority of this
movie, save for a few great scenes, is just corny and gross.

******
15 February 2008
7
Jodie Foster, in a fine performance, is FBI-trainee Clarice Starling.
She is assigned by the chief of the Behavioral Sciences Division (Scott
Glenn) to interview the brilliant and cannibalistic mad psychiatrist
Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) in prison and try to enlist his help
in capturing a currently active serial murderer, Buffalo Bill (Ted
Levine), who skins his victims and sews the patches of skin into a kind
of integumental suit made of women.When Starling first visits Lecter, the chief psychiatrist ( the
eminently hatable Anthony Heald) escorts her down into the bowels of
the institution and cautions her about approaching Lecter too closely,
although they will be separated by a wall of bullet-proof plastic.Lecter DOES in fact help her. Buffalo Bill had once been a patient of
his. But Lecter wants something too, in return. "Quid pro quo," he
tells her, showing off his Latin clichés. For every hint he gives to
her and to the FBI, he demands some sort of present, such as a room
with a view and, most important, some personal details about Starling's
earlier life, the events in her past that brought her from a one-horse
town in Appalachia to the FBI. He gets it. And she gets Buffalo Bill.
And Lecter escapes in order to carry on his own cannibalistic career,
beginning with the eminently hatable Anthony Heald. (His last line:
"I'm having an old friend for dinner tonight.") It doesn't sound too
promising, does it? Still ANOTHER serial killer on the loose? With a
puzzling modus operandi? Which the FBI must figure out in order to
track him down and shoot him dead? But I described this as an effective
thriller, not an ordinary one that serves as one more opportunity for
Stallone to strip off his clothes and bulge his muscles at the camera.
It's functionally directed by Jonathan Demme, based on Thomas Harris's
novel. Only one incident involves a stunt man. There isn't a car chase
in sight, nor an exploding fireball, nor a slow-motion shot of
violence. There is one lethal beating and only a single shoot-out --
with pistols, not Uzis or 40 mm. Bofors cannons.The three threads of the story involve Glenn's avuncular relationship
with the younger Starling, the flirtation (for that's what it amounts
to) between Lecter and Starling, and the pursuit of the twisted Buffalo
Bill. The stories mesh very well, and one scene in particular, linking
the FBI's attack on a suspect's house to Starling's casual and
apparently post-climactic ringing the doorbell of a house belonging to
an old lady, is masterfully done.Tak Fujimoto's camera work could hardly be improved upon. He paints for
us a wintry Middle-Atlantic setting with ice-cold rivers and stark,
bare deciduous trees. There is a scene with a decomposing corpse that
makes your skin crawl, although it is handled matter-of-factly, or even
in such good taste as such a scene allows for. Original, too, is the
character of Buffalo Bill's last intended victim, a large young lady
kept prisoner in a basement pit. With Bill still darting around in the
shadows somewhere, the lone Starling yells down to her and tells her
she's safe now that the FBI is here. We're wrong if we expect the
captive to pull the usual response. She doesn't break down and sob with
relief. She screams back, "**** that, you b****! Get me out of here!"
It was a nice touch in the novel too, which is written in lean,
functional, and artless prose.All of the performances are quite good, with Hopkins outstanding as the
crazy genius. The character became something of an icon in vernacular
culture, which I guess is why audiences find it satisfying and amusing
that he should be left on the loose to kill still more people. It adds
a new dimension to films -- the serial killer who deserves to be let
free because he's polite and has visited Florence. The writers help bring this story above average. When Foster explores
the house of an earlier, almost forgotten victim, there is a touching
moment when she discovers some hidden photos the girl had taken of
herself posing coyly in her underwear, although she's too plump to be
conventionally attractive. A music box plays in the background while
Foster goes through these pitiful remnants and we can sense the life
behind the death. The direction isn't free of conventions though.
Foster is blinded in darkness and the murder's hand reaches out from
behind the camera and traces her contours without touching them. Every
horror movie must have such a scene. And earlier, when Scott Glenn
realizes he's sent Foster into a dangerous, potentially lethal
circumstance without any warning, the camera moves in quickly to a
close up of his startled expression as he says, "Clarice!" These
clichés are available in finer B-grade slasher movies everywhere.The conventions are aptly deployed though and the movie succeeds in
what it's trying to do.

******
29 August 2004
8

Hannibal Lecter. The name that will spark interest, gain recognition, and
most likely send a chill down your spine. He's one of the most interesting
and well-known fictional serial killers, and this is probably the movie that
manages to do him most justice. Anthony Hopkins as the serial killer,
psychiatrist and cannibal was a great casting decision. He definitely
performed the role as perfectly as it could be done. However, when it comes
to the overall quality of the film, it just doesn't entirely measure up. The
plot is good, and evolves at a pretty good pace; however, I couldn't manage
to sit through the entire thing... I only barely made it, half-attentive,
through the first 45 minutes. I couldn't even sit through more than 3/8's of
the movie, let alone the whole thing. Now, this may be because I've seen it
many times in the past years, but usually, when I can't sit through a movie
because I have seen it before, it's due to my remembering most of the key
parts of the movie, and not being surprised by it... but not this movie; I
can say, in entire honesty, that I didn't remember or even recognize any of
the film, despite having seen it plenty of times before, about one time a
year. If I remember anything from a movie, that I haven't seen for a long
time, it's because it had an impact on me; for example, I still haven't
forgotten the twist of the famous Hitchcock horror-thriller, Vertigo,
despite the fact that I've seen it once, and that was about five years ago.
Nothing in this movie had an impact on me, nothing affected me deeply. Maybe
I'm hard to impress, maybe I am too hardened by worse films... but still.
The film involves sick and disturbing characters and actions; it should have
an impact on the viewer. Maybe I'm not smart enough to get it; maybe I keep
expecting the film to be very different from what it was... I don't know. I
just didn't find this film as good as it has been made out to be. The acting
is very good; Hopkins nails the role of Lecter perfectly. Foster is good,
too. Both portray their roles convincingly, and make their characters and
their actions credible. The characters are well-written, credible and, well,
colorful. Buffalo Bill makes a great villain, very psychotic and disturbing.
Levine also gives a very good performance. All in all, a pretty good
horror-thriller, but inferior to Se7en(arguably the best of the genre), and
only enjoyable for people who can appreciate the psychological aspects of
the film(which I guess I can't). I recommend it exclusively to people who
can enjoy a very psychological thriller-horror piece. 8/10

******
22 June 2004
7

Hannibal. The very name sparks fear, discomfort, and ultimately
recognition. He is one of the most popular screen characters of all
time, the incarnation of evil, and yet strangely likable despite his
distasteful savoring of human flesh. "I ate his liver with some fava
beans and a nice bottle of chianti," he tells FBI Agent Clarice
Starling (Jodie Foster) after she meets him in a prison, metal bars
their only means of separation.Their first conversation and face-to-face interaction is a vital
element of the film's narrative; the bars represent Starling's own
self-defense; they have wide-open spaces that are easily penetrable.
And Hannibal Lecter, a psychologist and cannibal, knows exactly how to
reach past her own mental cell bars and crack into her brain, and he
does so in the classic scene where she recalls memories from her
childhood, of the lamb she tried to save...Agent Starling is on the case of a bizarre serial killer whose victims
tend to be young women. Although they are unaware of his motives, it
turns out the infamous "Buffalo Bill" is using the skin of these
unfortunate victims for his own sick pleasure. He's not the sort of
person you'd feel comfortable being stuck next to in an otherwise empty
elevator.Clarice is smart, a feminine icon of the movies. Her brains are what
propel her own investigation into the case while her desire to unearth
the truth and succeed past the results of her male counterparts stems
from a sort of egotistical dominance. Not many people comment upon
Sterling's own sexuality, her almost overly excessive efforts at saving
the victims (who happen to be females). Buffalo Bill seems to represent
her own image of men: cruel creatures who inflict pain and suffering
upon helpless women. Her sole friend, the only man she can rely on for
help and inside tidbits, is an outcast upon society -- a metaphor for
the repressed homosexuals who are abandoned by their own societies,
shunned by those who feel they are not "normal." Harris's underlying
implications of homosexuality and female dominance in the novel are
admittedly stronger than in the film, although the presence of the
suggestions is clearly evident under close examination.Or, it could just be about serial killers and FBI agents. You decide.Sure, the movie is famous, but we must ask ourselves whether or not the
film's reputation has given it a better face over the year than it has
deserved. It is well directed, but never does the film fascinate us as
the bold and daring "Se7en" did. "Silence of the Lambs" is a fine film,
but pales in comparison to some of its imitators and fellow genre
occupants.The acting and writing is not at fault. Hopkins and Foster are superb.
Hopkins received the most critical acclaim, although in 2001 we all
realized that Foster was a key to the series as well, when she was
unsuccessfully replaced with Julianne Moore in the sequel, "Hannibal,"
directed by Ridley Scott, which was a total failure and disappointment
for the fans of the original and source material, the novels by Thomas
Harris, who has reportedly never seen "Silence of the Lambs" for fear
that it would influence his writing."Lambs," more than any other film in the series, is terribly
manipulative, complete with tacky flashbacks that are out of place and
all too convenient. That's where the film ultimately fails. The
direction by Jonathan Demme is, truth be told, rather poor and
borderline mediocre; Demme does not use cinematography to his
advantage, does not use darker tones to evoke feelings from the prints
as Fincher did with "Se7en." It's a great movie with convincing
performances and a realistic script packaged in the form of a typical
Hollywood thriller -- it might have a good reputation, it might be a
good movie, but compared to other classics of the genre, "The Silence
of the Lambs" just doesn't hold up as much as I had hoped it would
after all these years. It's revolutionary, but isn't the masterpiece it
used to be.On the plus side there's always that terrific ending to look forward
to.


******
8 August 2015
7
When you watch a movie considered an absolute classic, you expect to be
thrilled and taken away, for me though, I just wasn't. Now I'm not
saying this is bad far from it, but it just isn't for me what everyone
cracks it up to be, it's good but I fail to see why it is considered a
masterpiece. I would watch it again as it is enjoyable and a genuinely
good thriller, but part of me feels it has maybe aged a little too much
since it came out, but that doesn't doubt some of the performances.The true star of the movie is Anthony Hopkins (or for some it is Jodie
Foster, pick a side) and he seems to emit a certain eeriness about him,
and to say he is in this movie for so little time and yet won an Oscar,
well it is testament to his skill. As for Foster prefer her or not to
Hopkins she is also a worthy actor here and some of the mind battles
between her and Hopkins's Lecter are very fine scenes indeed. For me
though the acting is where the slight overrating of this movie arrives
and that is because people say about the performances as if they are
what makes this incredible, but for me the acting although brilliant,
does not make up for the entire piece.And on the point here of the plot, well the story is sinister,
devilishly put together but never too much like a basic horror movie.
See the film has a way of being physiologically scary rather than
gruesome jumpy scenes kind of scary, sure there are a lot of dark
moments but it wouldn't give you nightmares. I found the story to be
interesting, the whole thing about Clarice meeting with Hopkins to find
Buffalo Bill is an interesting concept, and the whole plot about
Buffalo Bill himself is also fairly interesting too. It is Buffalo Bill
who makes this movie not like others, a crazed killer but who is
calculated albeit mentally scarred, a fascinating look into the killers
mind.Jonathan Demme directs and he is OK, he never really made me think "Oh
wow this director is fantastic" but nevertheless I did feel his job
here was done well. As for the script well I have never read the
original source material, but the adapted screenplay in any case is
very nicely done, Ted Tally creates something that will live on in
cinema history. The cinematography is also nice; the straight to face
camera angles work well when people are having conversations and Tak
Fujimoto's work all together is very nicely done.The reason I think I didn't enjoy this maybe as much as others is that
it could be dated now. The movie isn't the scariest; I didn't find it
much frightening at all and although as I say Buffalo Bill is a
fascinating character as well as Lecter, neither really sent shivers.
That said the film is I believe meant to be more about the
psychological side of these characters, and especially with Lecter,
although we see his horrific side, we don't see a lot. There is no
doubt Hopkins deserved his awards, same story with Foster and a lot of
it's wins too, but for me best picture was not something it deserved,
it just for me wasn't enjoyable enough, didn't engage me near as much
as others say it did for them.Overall I feel slightly disappointed after viewing this; I came in with
high expectations but left having seen a good movie, but not a
masterpiece. I just can't see why people believe this to be so good,
maybe you have to watch this with your nose pressed against the screen
but I will one day watch this again and reflect on whether I feel my
feelings about this have changed.

******
5 June 2015
3
This movie is awful. What most people don't know about this movie this
that it is a sequel. This is based on the second book Thomas Harries
wore about Hannibal L.e.c.t.e.r. His first book Red dragon was fist
made into a movie in 1986. It is called man Man hunter. It is very
scary. And this one is just overrated crap. The third one Hannibal is
better. And that one is pretty bad. There is the Man hunter remake that
people think is a prequel Red dragon. That is one of the scariest
movies ever made. And this just crap. The prequel Hannibal rising is
better. And that was not very good. For a movie that was supposed to be
scarier Then A nightmare on elm street (1984) and Friday the 13th
(1980) I was very disappointed. The best thing about this movie is that
it is a precursors to Red dragon. This movie is badly written and has
an awful ending. They was good actors in it and they wasted there
talent being in this crap. The only reason any one a generation older
me like is because of who is in it. Anthony Hopkins can do no wrong in
the eye of a lot of people. This movie is not scary at all. It is just
stupid. It is a pile of pooh pooh. Do not wast time and money. Don't
see this awful movie.

******
9 February 2012
7
Five times Oscar winner The Silence of the Lambs is a class act in many
respects, but there are several factorsissues with the script that
many fans seem to have happily chosen to ignorewhich prevent me from
finding the film such a wholly satisfying experience.With a little suspension of disbelief, I can accept that FBI boss
Crawford (Scott Glenn) might believe that Hannibal Lecter (Anthony
Hopkins) could help in profiling serial killer Buffalo Bill (Ted
Levine), but what are the chances of him knowing the killer's actual
identity? Pretty damn slim if you ask mealmost as unlikely as Crawford
assigning a rookie agent like Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) to
interrogate a manipulative psychopath in the first place!Swallow all that, and you'll probably have no problem with Lecter's
escape, but I know I'm not alone in finding this pivotal scene
far-fetched in the extreme. Even if I let the whole 'pen thing' slide
(Hannibal's a master of sleight of hand and a whizz at picking
locksfair enough), I still struggle to believe that it is possible to
fool an entire team of highly trained cops and medics by slipping a
dead man's face over your own. Just ain't going to happen.And then there's the ending, which after all of the slow-burn
psychological games between Lecter and Starling, suddenly goes into
over-drive, glossing over details in a hurry to get to the typically
tense Hollywood-style finale: all of a sudden, the FBI have Buffalo
Bill's true identity, Clarice Starling has tracked the nut-job to his
lair, and it's all on for an exciting climax inside the pitch black,
labyrinthine basement where the psycho skins his victims.Thankfully, even with these frustratingly ill-considered moments taking
the film down a peg or two in my opinion, Silence of the Lambs is still
well worth a watch thanks to director Jonathan Demme's slick handling
of the material, and career defining turns from several of his standout
cast. Hopkins iconic performance as Lecter is mesmerising, the actor
deeply menacing even behind a sheet of unbreakable glass or completely
immobile, securely fastened to a trolley in his iconic face-mask;
Foster is also memorable as Clarice, who unwisely allows Hannibal
inside her mind to exploit her emotional fragility. But it is Ted
Levine who steals the show: as sexually confused, mumbling maniac
Buffalo Bill, whose goal is to make himself a suit from women's skin,
Levine is absolutely superb, providing the film with many of its most
memorable moments and delivering several of my favourite quotable lines
of dialogue.All together now: 'It rubs the lotion on its skin...'

******
7 March 2007
7
There are a few items that perplex me regarding this film. First, a
review posted in the IMDb on September 15, 2006 makes reference to "too
much nudity" in the film on the part of Anthony Hopkins and Jodie
Foster, yet there was no nudity in the film. That, in itself, baffles
me... but I digress. The second is why the scene where the Deputy is
crucified like a butterfly. Realistically, where would Lecter have had
the time, and being that the deputy was a large man, where did Hopkins
summon the strength? OK, with those two issues aside, "The Silence of
the Lambs" is a good film. I think it was deserved of Best Picture for
that year, 1991, as well considering its competition. I don't think it
was a great movie, however.I don't usually compare films with their novel counterparts, because
films and books are really two separate beasts. Sometimes, such as with
"The Lord of the Rings" trilogy, I make exceptions, but that is more
the exception than the norm. Because I have seen many reference made to
"The Silence of the Lambs" the movie versus "The Silence of the Lambs"
the book, I feel compelled to comment. I read the book and I found the
book to be very shallow. The film was far better. And that is all I
have to say about that."Silence" worked primarily because of Anthony Hopkins (Hannibal Lecter)
and Ted Levine (Jame Gumb.) Jodie Foster did an above average job as
Clarice Starling, but there is just something about Foster that rubs me
the wrong way in the film. I can't quite place my finger on it, maybe
her attempt at a southern accent or maybe her masculine mannerisms and
boyish looks, but she "just didn't do it for me." As I have stated in
my review of the film "Hannibal", I found Julianne Moore to be far
better suited for the part of Clarice Starling. Perhaps it is mere
preference, and that is all.As I initially mentioned, there were some mechanical problems with the
film. Overall, the film worked, though. It is a very dark and
disturbing tale, and the atmosphere stays quite faithful to that
premise with it's dark color tones and macabre soundtrack. There are
few characters that earn the eerie and sinister reputation of Hannibal
(the Cannibal) Lecter, and as already stated, this is a credit to
Hopkins. The film's conclusion is both suspenseful and darkly comical.
Some find themselves frustrated by the open-ended ending, but I found
it perfect, especially how it made for an easy transition into the
sequel.

******
15 January 2007
7
After I watched this movie I was afraid of the dark for weeks. It may
be just because I'm not into horror-type movies, but I thought it was
quite scary. Much of the time I had a blanket over my head in an effort
to escape the grotesque footage and the suspenseful scenes. But, even
thought it was gross and scary and disturbing, it truly is a work of
art. The acting is purely amazing, it really feels real. When Foster
enters Buffalo Bill's house at the end, I was on the edge of my seat
(under a blanket). If you're not one to have nightmares after seeing a
scary movie, don't mind graphic footage, and like good acting, this is
definitely a movie for you.

******
7 August 2001
6

Ok I know somebody will probably chew me out for not thinking this is a
classic but it's not. I mean it's well written and has a good story it's
just a little boring is all. Anthony did a great job with his character and
it's pretty good but I don't think it should be rated as the 20th best movie
ever, I'll give it a 6/10

******
18 June 2001
6

I rented THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS hoping that it would be good.  And while
it was good, it was a little hard to keep up with at times.  The plotline is
brilliant, and so is the screenplay adaptation, which earned Ted Tally an
Oscar.  Jodie Foster gives an excellent performance as the
agent-in-training, Clarice Starling.  She deserved any award she got for her
air tight performance, particularly the oscar.  Anthony Hopkins, though
equal in quality to Foster's work, is far more brilliant.  But he seems more
of a supporting role than a lead.  True, the picture was confusing, and hard
to keep up with.6/10.

******
8 February 2001
6

Finally after ten years I watched The, Silence of the Lambs for the first
time and I must say that it is not as great as everybody had said. I can say
that after watching it though I felt like I was educated by the FBI's
Behavioral Science Unit! I love the script it seemed to have a real life
ring to it. You have Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) as an FBI trainee who
wants to be a member of the behavioral science unit that studies violent
crime and serial killings and once the brutal killings across several
eastern and midwestern states begin all the work of "Buffalo Bill". Clarice
enlists the aid of a former psychologist and now imprisoned sociopath
(Anthony Hopkins) to help track the killer. And I must say that Hopkins
gives a mind numbing performance he really made a great educated sociopath
the movie explores the dark nature of life but mainly it proves all of us
can receive a mind playing education just as Hopkins does so well with the
Foster character as he brings out her dark fears and past mistakes such as
the incident with a crying lamb as a child maybe we will later learn in the
Hannibal sequel that a lamb doesn't stay silent forever you know Anthony's
Hannibal will roar like a lion. The, Silence of the Lambs falls short of
matching the gore and high drama of movies like Se7en but the script is so
mind tingling and while the Hopkins character has the ability to know the
future of all and any crazy individuals while he surprises himself and
others with the rude nature and he can always play his own mind games to his
advantage that is what makes The, Silence of the Lambs a classic. Let's hope
Hannibal is this good. 

******
2 July 1999
6

I don't think that this movie is as good as everybody says. Where are the
silent lambs ? Jonathan Demme seems not to know what real silence is !
Sometimes reality turns out to be crueler than any fiction can be. Jodie
Foster is a very good actress, but she is not tough enough. I'm sure that
there are better actresses to play this part. To name them here wouldn't
help, I guess. Anyway, the movie was very boring and I didn't get
nightmares
like a classmate of my son. The story would have been more appealing if
some
Russian agents had been involved. This would guarantee real SILENCE.
Believe
me, I have experienced real silence...

******
13 April 2015
7
Came into this movie expecting to be scared out of my wits by Anthony
Hopkins (Hannibal Lecter) performance; a pretense resulting from many
many top 10 lists of "Chilling performances" or "Best movie Psychopaths
" boy was I let down. For the 90s it may have been unique and freaky,
but i really couldn't attain what all the constant hype is about, yes
there are some tense moments here and there but Lecters character is
really inconsistently acted out for half of his screen time. Don't
really believe in being pretentious in this context but if you payed
attention to Lecters dialogue you would see one moment he is a to the
core amoral being who does not feel one iota of sympathy for humanity
and the next he is interested in some rookie FBI agents childhood and
not to mention infatuated enough to create art pieces of her, excuse me
if i am mistaken but this is a chronic sociopath who eats humans. I
don't know if you've watched interviews with psychopaths or insane
persons but i can assure you none of them behave the way Lecter does
and please spare me the "but that's what makes him so different and
"good" ". The writers who came up with Lecters lines got way too artsy
by letting their creative exhibition blanket the brutal reality the
character was meant to portray. Lecter was intriguing and enigmatic for
the first few minutes of his appearance but his mysteriousness and
guise got completely obliterated as the writers gave too much away too
quickly leaving nothing to further entice the viewer on the central
character. Other major detractors regarding Lecter included the scene
where he escapes a HIGH SECURITY complex SURROUNDED by ARMED and
TRAINED personal which was supposedly "blocked off for 10 block" or
something along those lines, keep in mind that Lecter had been locked
in a cell for 8 years straight, talk about muscle atrophy right? the
man suddenly had the strength to scale fences and walls while avoiding
only a couple dozen patrols...Buffalo Bill was just a medium for the movie creators to include shock
material: close ups on his nipple ring, full nude frontal shot,
dialogue of him saying he wants to copulate with himself and something
about putting the lotion in the basket? the effect of that sentence was
much more profound in South Park. Buffalo Bill was not even minutely
interesting or relevant it just seems they added him their just to fill
in some blanks and add in some really "ewwy" moments. The ending scene where Lecter calls Starling is just a redundant and
rubbish attempt to further strengthen the absolute awkward bond between
relationship they had and also I'm guessing they wanted an excuse to
include Lecter again before the credits rolled, I'm not sorry to say
this but the only decent thing about the ending was when Lecter
commented he was going to have "dinner" with his past captor. The characters in this movie were just very poorly written and
implemented, the acting was believable but thats not even 1/4 of what
makes a movie "good". I know i missed out on Jodie Fosters character oh
and could i go on but i really feel likes there are enough negatives
here to indicate just how overly high rated this movie is . Lecter
could have been portrayed so much more ferociously and searingly
through presence and psychologically alone rather than having mens
extremities ripped off or them beaten to a pulp. Joker from Christopher
Nolans movie is probably the epitome of an antagonist with an unstable
mental state (no I'm not a 13 year old emo who's favourite is
unquestionably the joker) and i might even mention the main antagonist
from I Saw the Devil that is also a very raw representation of how a
psychopath might function in real life.The Buffalo Bill character could have been implemented more naturally
as opposed to having it seem like there are two points of focus in the
movie (Lecter and Bill). The movie really needed to end on a much more
satisfying note and don't get me wrong i have seen plenty of films
where the ending is ambiguous but Silence Of The Lambs was just the
protagonist receiving a phone call at a party and Lecter walking off
into a crowd of people as Sarling sobs i mean come on it would have
been better to just end it after Bill was slain. I would give the movie 1/10 to ever so slightly balance the overall
score but 7/10 for having some depth and substance to it despite being
majorly overrated and just a mediocre film.

******
22 March 2014
5
I was looking for some good thriller,action wasn't necessary but look
at the story.Dr.lector or whoever his name was,gets a pin,screws 2 cops
with a pin which came out of nowhere,highly trained cops get
deceived,applause for both cops & rest of cops. Now what if one of
those cops was a hero?mr.doctor'd never ever had a chance to break
out,he calls the other cop to shut the damn cage & he is playing
there,so sensitive that the money spent on his training was depending
on just a door slam,why the hell you're in police department? why the
hell'd you take a risk to place food near such a dangerous criminal,I
mean he can go f*** his paintings & drawings,here's your food,2nd time
you've asked for it,take it if you want to. & that mr genius serial
killer,a brave FBI agent got deceived twice by him,breathing like
untrained person,& that genius,never got caught,at the end used his
brain to cut the power but forgot to load his gun,waow,genius,you're
such a hero.he moves & instead of holding her breath,she's breathing
like hell.oh come on,who'd give this movie so many points man.I've seen
1000s of movies,same story,2 turning points in the damn movie but not
even a single one made sense.........waste

******
2 December 2011
4
It seems to be a favorite hobby for some Christian-minded thinkers with
superficial world view to take on books and stories that are written
from and only understandable from a specifically non-Christian and
anti-psychiatric almost satanic frame of mind.It's as if a Priest pretended to be interested and infatuated with the
philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche and made a documentary of his
philosophy attempting to manifest the nature of good and evil within
the philosophy of a philosopher that is famous for tearing down the
very idea of good and evil.The main idea in the Hannibal books is supposed to center on the depth
of their own human nature that the detectives are forced to face when
they confront Hannibal. How justice itself revolves around the concept
of murder just like being an adult involves the symbolical need to
murder ones parents. (Symbolical murder of the idea of parents is
needed for the idea of parents as actual separate people, other
adults.) One cannot have a view on justice without a willingness for a
symbolical murder of injustice.Where in Clarice Starling do we see this soul of a murderer that is
supposed to be depicted in this story? Nowhere. Because the story of
"The Silence of the Lambs" is not included in this movie. If you want
the story read the book or watch the older movie "manhunter" to catch a
similar spirited story made as a movie. If you want to read the bible,
read the bible instead of watching a bible-fied version of "The Silence
of the Lambs"...

******
30 December 2009
6
Silence of the Lambs is a phenomenal movie. May be it was Anthony
Hopkins's best performance, or one of the bests, and the character
Hannibal Lecter was unforgettable, phenomenal too. Besides those, there
were a few scenes which deserve to be put in cinema anthology! However,
this doesn't mean that the movie is a quintessential masterpiece. There
is no problem with Jodie Foster, she shines in the movie and she is one
of my all time favorite actresses. Her portrayal was so realistic in
the movie. The first conversation between Starling and Lecter was epic,
unforgettable. I used to watch this scene regularly, after I had bought
the movie. And the famous jail scene... Brilliantly horrifying!
Jonathan Demme shot this scene honorably, but this does not spread to
the movie in general. At times, the movie feels like a TV episode.
There are some chilling moments which also works like a real, pure
detective movie, but then it turns into an ordinary drama again. There
could have been more suspense or mystery. I found the climax of the
film pretty weak and low key in a bad way for such a phenomenal movie,
I had expected a powerful, absorbing, intriguing final, but there was
none. And there is one more flaw in the movie and It is the character
Buffalo Bill! He has no background, even no existence! I mean no
character study which is weird for such a movie. He is not the focus of
the movie, but also he is the key character of the movie. No real
investigation, no cat and mouse game, no murder scene... Buffalo Bill
seems like he is not an appropriate character for Silence of the Lambs,
because it has no point rather than he is Buffalo Bill! Buffalo Bill
might have been suitable for Friedkin's Cruising, for instance. Francis
Dollarhyde in Manhunter was an unlikeable character for me, but at
least, it was a well portrayed character.

******
29 June 2006
6
Somewhat an inferior sequel to "Manhunter," we find Jack Crawford
(Scott Glenn) assigning FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) to
interview Lecter about killer Buffalo Bill, who has been kidnapping
young women throughout the southern United States.Much like "Manhunter," this movie focuses on the investigator. However,
Clarice Starling isn't nearly as interesting as Will Graham. She thinks
she's one of the big boys, but hasn't done anything to prove herself
and actually shows herself unworthy of that recognition.Anthony Hopkins, replacing Brian Cox, hams up the role of Lecter,
taking away a bit of a creepy edge. Jodie Foster proves that accents
aren't one of her talents. Scott Glenn is once again great in a small
role.The movie unwraps slowly, but without worthy characters, we don't find
ourselves interested in what develops. The movie doesn't really pick up
until the climatic confrontation.A year after this movie's release, "Basic Instinct" was badly received
for its perceived homophobic content. However, "Basic Instinct" only
had a killer that happened to be a lesbian, where "Silence of the
Lambs" creates an explicit link between the killer's killing and his
sexual confusion, definitely making it the more homophobic of the two.It's a good story of a young woman's growth, but it's not compelling or
thrilling.

******
19 May 2000
4

For me, this movie was a pretty blah experience. That it managed to grab the
top five Academy Awards is a mystery to me; 1991 must have been a truly
dismal year for the movies if the Academy chose to honour this rather
average offering. I've been really anxious to see the film after I've heard
so many good things about it, and as I sat through the first rather
unremarkable half-an-hour, I kept saying to myself: "Ok, it should get
brilliant any time soon now... shouldn't it??" But it didn't. It wasn't
involving, it wasn't chilling or scary or compelling in any way. I usually
adore Jodie Foster, but here she gave an unremarkable performance and I
didn't care for her character one bit. Anthony Hopkins almost saved the
movie for me with his truly brilliant turn as Dr Lecter, but I felt that it
was a supporting role at best. Overall, Se7en is a way better movie than
this so-called "masterpiece".

******
6 August 2009
4
Allow me to gingerly dip a toe into the chill waters of dissenting
opinion here."The silence of the lambs" was nothing more than a risible
schlock horror meets pop psychology movie that rode to huge success on
the back of a quite brilliant advertising campaign.Mr A.Hopkins,on his
way to becoming v.v.rich,slums it up gleefully with some jovial
serial-killer quips,lending like Richard Burton before him,his glorious
voice to the Studio paymasters.His character,a repulsive homicidal
maniac,a lover(of course) of classical music with dialogue direct from
the Smart-alec Hollywood Writers' Handbook,,a Lord Byron amongst serial
killers,seeks amusement by manipulating young and inexperienced FBI
trainee (Miss J.Foster) at will.Of course in real life any
inexperienced FBI trainee after her first meeting with such a nutjob
would have told her bosses where to poke their badge and gone on a long
holiday as far away from Quantico as possible,but this isn't real life
and plucky moppet that she is,Miss Foster takes him on at his own
game.Really,how likely is that? With plenty of ripe ham from Mr H. and
some Nancy Drew like behaviour from Miss F.,the movie trundles over
familiar ground with lots of shocks that aren't shocking for people who
remember them from the first time around.Mr H escapes and eats
somebody.Excuse me whilst I repair my split sides. They should have
given an Oscar (T.M.) to the publicity department.

******
10 January 2006
10
To keep up the goody goody cannibal spirit: "Silence of the Lambs" is a
finger-licking GREAT thriller and one of the most righteous Academy
Award winners in the history of cinema. Maybe I'm just saying that
because I'm a big fan of nerve-racking thrillers and, let's face it,
nerve-racking thrillers hardly ever win any Oscars, but apparently all
audiences as well as all critics seem to agree that "Silence of the
Lambs" is the worthy conquerer of 5 awards in the most eminent
categories. The foundations of this cinematic milestone couldn't have
been better, of course, with Thomas Harris' intriguing
characterizations and basic story-idea (the efficiency was already
proved in 1986, with "Manhunter") but really a lot of the film's
brilliance is added by the Jonathan Demme and his outstanding cast.
Despite not having directed a lot of horror/thriller films before this,
Demme's knowledge of the genres is impressive and he terrifically
manages to bring a constant level of tension without ever resorting to
graphic violence or explicit gore. And that's quite an accomplishment
because, primarily, "The Silence of the Lambs" handles about a sadistic
serial killer, who eats his victims, who's recruited to assist in
catching another sadistic serial killer, who skins his victims! Young
FBI-trainee Clarice Starling is sent to Dr. Hannibal Lector's isolated
prison cell to profile the new killer Buffalo Bill. But the highly
intelligent and sophisticated Lector is only prepared to reveal clues
about Buffalo Bill's modus operandi in exchange for answers to personal
questions regarding Clarice's childhood.Apart from being a truly exciting and rather educational serial-killer
chase, "The Silence of the Lambs" also definitely is a compelling
psychological drama-triumph! The 'Quid Pro Quo' conversations between
Clarice and Dr. Lector are portrayed like highly competitive duels in
which the young FBI agent isn't necessarily the weakest party! These
conversations revolve on how determined both of them are willing to go
in order to find out what they need to know and, simultaneously, we get
to know how vulnerable Clarice actually is. These marvelous sequences
appear to be even stronger thanks to the genuinely eerie and cold
setting of Hannibal Lector's old, windowless cell. The camera
perspectives throughout the whole film, as well as the cinematography
in general, are impeccable and often trend-setting! Particularly
classic is the "parallel" climax, which actually is a ridiculously
simple and misleading trick but increases the suspense to an
unprecedented high point. And then, of course, there are the acting
performances but what praise can I possibly add that hasn't been said
before? Anthony Hopkins is in one word hypnotic, Jodie Foster is
pragmatic but truly overpowering and Ted Levine is genuinely terrifying
as the personification of human complexity!

******
21 August 2000
6

What is so special about this film? I've watched it once, about a year ago,
and could never figure it out myself. What I saw was a pretty good thriller
which bombed out at the very end. I never thought the acting was all that
great either. I think Anthony Hopkins was overacting, and I thought it was
one of Jodie Foster's slightest performances. She had a more complex
character in Freaky Friday. Oh, and the end that I mentioned above (I guess SPOILERS):Jodie Foster just stumbles on Buffalo Bob while following her clues. It
seemed believable to me that she might come upon him before she actually new
exactly who she was confronting. But it also made the film seem rushed to
actually have the final showdown as soon as she accidentally runs into
Buffalo Bob. It almost seemed to me as if they decided that the movie was
too long at that point, and that they should just let this coincidence
develop into a finale, even if it was premature. If you don't understand
what I am talking about, that is, if you thought the film ended at the
correct time, read Roger Ebert's review of the film. I did not develop my
opinion from his review either, he  just confirmed my suspicions. I don't
think Silence of the Lambs was particularly fascinating elsewhere, but it
was often entertaining. I would have given it a 7/10, but the sloppy ending
knocks it down to a 6/10. Jesus, how did the Academy remember this at awards
time. 1992 must have been a slow year. 

******
7 October 2007
7
this film is well made and follows a good story with quite gory scenes
but its so over hyped!! i mean people keep telling me that its so
scary!! and how disturbing it is.. i was not at one point shocked or
scared i never jumped or thought to my self.. "oh my god.." the film is
fine.. i just wouldn't say its "scary..." or anything like that.if you want to watch something disturbing i would recommend cannibal
holocaust. the sequel Hannibal was enjoyable but once again did not
disturb me or scare me.. I've glanced past Hannibal rising and it looks
interesting.the movie follows a interesting story of a crazy doctor who says many
interesting lines.anyways all together i preferred hannibal

******
19 October 2005
5
I had to look at a movie for school and I had to pick one out of the
top 100 list on a site or in our workbook. I picked out this movie
because I once saw it but didn't finish it and now I wanted to look at
it again and completely. at first when I had only heard about the
movie, I thought it was going to be a horrible movie with lots of
killing and that it wasn't really my kind of movie. but after I looked
at it once I saw that it was not horrible at all, there was some kind
of psychological aspect in the film and that was something I liked. So
now that I looked at it for the second time, my meaning is that it was
very good, i looked at it without stopping. it was not boring me at
all. the great lines of the film were fascinating, that is why i think
this movie belongs to the best and also to the top 100. the actors did
a great job, especially the kind of relation between Clarisse Starling
and Hannibal Lecter. it was very special. their conversations in prison
were interesting and Lecter was always so mysterious. I will say to
other people that they will have to look at the movie, because I can
not say a bad thing about it at all. it wasn't a horrible thriller like
most of the time and that is something I really liked.

******
28 August 2001
5

Well, let's not beat about the bush. HUGE populist appeal, which just goes
to show that you can fool all the people all the time. Anyone who has read
any book about the FBI and serial killers will spot holes in this story so
wide they need to be stitched together with mooring rope. Rookies assigned
to such important cases? Um, sure... Deaths head moths that don't signify
what they do? Of course... Jesus H Christ, has no one ever heard of Ed
Gein?
Absolute rubbish, all of it. Oh, of course, except the escape of
Hannibal...
Easily the high spot of the whole film, as everyone I know agrees.
Chilling?
Well, yes, if you've never set eyes upon a refrigerator, I
suppose...


******
27 March 2002
6
Jonathan Demme's "The Silence Of the Lambs" is just a spook show, and
one without any sympathy for its victims (or for the audience, who get
a good hammering on the head). Yes, the performances by Anthony Hopkins
and Jodie Foster have become legendary (and for good reason, they are
both intensely focused and driven), but the picture is a let-down,
complete with outlandish violence mixed with human drama, filtered
through a cartoonish sensibility. I didn't see much art in the picture,
particularly in the aftermath of one of Hopkins's rampages (hanging a
mutilated guard like an angel from the tip-top of a prison cell--and
when would he have the time to devise such a maneuver?). I am a big
admirer of Foster's work and will watch her in anything, but her FBI
Trainee seems to climb the ranks awfully easily, being allowed to do
potentially dangerous investigative work on her own, and, eventually, I
tired of the Hero As Woman underlying theme. The finale, in a killer's
house full of behind-the-door-shocks, is so unremittingly ghastly (yet
with the kicker that all this perverseness is good for a raunchy
thrill) that I couldn't help but to think of all the young people
watching in the audience, their eyes wide, saying "Now comes the good
stuff!" To me, that's scarier than a movie psychopath. **1/2 from ****

******
6 October 1999
2

This film has a silly premise, a lousy script, an implausibility factor of
about +100 and a dreadful performance by Anthony Hopkins.  It's the last
point that I'll mention about first:  has a more pretentious, breathy
performance ever been seen on film before (outside of the Richard Burton
oeuvre)?  As for plausibility:  can you imagine the FBI sending a trainee
to
interview a serial killer, seeking information about another serial killer
on the loose?  That was a major flaw in the (also overrated) novel.  I
guess
it's easier to write about, or make a movie with, a younger woman who's
still apt to get all scared-ified and emotional and who doesn't have those
annoying crows-feet.  The script is terrible, too--it tries to present
Hannibal Lecter as being some kind of 'psychic vampire'.  Witness Hopkins'
expression after Jodie Foster tells him her tale of lamb-napping woe--like
a
famished person who's just been given a good meal.  Give me a break!  And
don't tell me that the FBI couldn't have made a connection between the
missing skin pieces on the dead girls' bodies and figured out what the
loony-tunes they were chasing was doing.  It takes Jodie Foster's character
seeing a dress pattern with darts on it to make the connection.  What a
group of dim bulbs.  And they wait until HOW MANY young women are killed
before they scratch their heads and say, "Hmmmm, maybe the killer knew one
of the victims!"  How did this stupid waste of celluloid ever garner any
critical praise?  I mean, I know the Oscars annually bestow 'Best Motion
Picture' awards on undeserving titles, so I don't care that this movie won
so many--but what were the nation's film critics thinking when this made so
many 'Top 10' lists?

******
28 July 2011
5
SILENCE OF THE LAMBS (1991), based on the major awards that it won
(Best Picture, Director, Actor, and Actress) could be considered the
most overrated film of the 90s. While the film has it's plusses, it
fails for me in being a purely chilling horror movie, which is what I
think it should be. I'm not as enamored of Jonathan Demme's
psychological yarn as so many others.First and foremost, SOTL is a boring movie! The first scene between
Oscar-winning stars Jodie Foster (as FBI recruit Clarice Starling) and
Anthony Hopkins (as imprisoned psychotic Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal"
Lecter) is definitely a keeper. Much as I don't like this movie, I DO
really like that intense early scene! But everything after that just
drags...and drags...and drags! Foster and Hopkins, while good, do not
IMHO give Oscar-worthy performances. Foster's "Southern" accent is
fairly overwrought and phony and Hopkins kind of hams it up too much as
Lecter. They really don't embody their characters so much as they are
just "acting". Foster is basically a made-to-order female hero for
everyone to fawn over and Hopkins is there for entertainment value
only.Now, there ARE scary parts to SOTL, just none involving Hannibal. The
real scary parts are of Starling's prey Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine in a
genuinely creepy performance) and his latest hostage Catherine (Brooke
Smith in an authentic performance). The scenes of Bill's dungeon are
very unsettling. But everything revolving around the capture (the
investigation, the dead ends, the MacGuffins, etc.) is the standard
Hollywood storyline. It was obvious from the get-go that Starling was
going to catch Bill, but the way it was done was extremely pedestrian.SOTL isn't even the best film with "Hannibal". That honor goes to the
superior Michael Mann-directed film Manhunter from 1986, which is much
more involving, intense, and satisfying. It has a better, more
believable hero (William Peterson's Will Graham), a better Hannibal
(Brian Cox), and an even better antagonist (Tom Noonan's multi-layered
Francis Dollarhyde). Manhunter was a police procedural, but also took
the time to develop and delve into the psyche of it's characters. SOTL
seems to be more interested in putting on a show. Then again,
showmanship is what usually wins Oscars!

******
13 December 2006
5
Having read both Red Dragon and Silence of the Lambs, and having seen
the movie adaptations of each (in that order), this movie was somewhat
disappointing to me. My two major complaints are with the pace and with
some of the acting.To start, the pace of the movie as compared to the book is cut all to
hell. Of course things would need to be shortened or refitted from
novel to feature length movie, but much of the insight into several
characters and their relationships is either rushed or utterly lost.
Jack Crawford's personal back story, for instance, is completely left
out; this leaves Scott Glen nothing to work with, though we know from
past roles that he is at least an able actor Jodie Foster is
contemptible as Clarice Starling. In T. Harris's well-written book, she
is portrayed as frustrated and sometimes disturbed, but able,
rebellious and determined. In this movie she is almost constantly
falling apart and is barely able to keep herself together. Further, the
reason for involving her so heavily in the case, while addressed in the
book, is never properly explained here.To the movie's credit, and ironically, the characters we are supposed
to like least are the most believable, and provoke the most reaction:
Ted Levine as Buffalo Bill, Anthony Heald as Dr. Chilton and of course
Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter.With a change of director, and screenwriter Ted Tally's growth over 11
years, Red Dragon is much more reflective of its source material, much
more insightful, has a much better lead actor and is simply better all
around. One will enjoy this movie as a thriller IF one does not first
read the book, or see the much more ably-handled Red Dragon.

******
29 August 2006
5
How this flick ended up on the top 30 list OF ALL TIME, is a mystery to
me. Anthony Hopkins is in no way scary compared to Brian Cox (Lector in
Manhunter 1986), who brilliantly captures the essence of insane, with a
great subtle performance that, unlike Hopkins, dosen't try to seem like
a deranged cannibalistic lunatic with a funny psycho-killer accent. IMO
Hopkins is one big caricature of a serial killer which to me is funny -
not scary. The visuals in Silence of the Lambs, is also dull and
uninspired compared to those in Manhunter where there is lots of
beautiful scenes often in deep marine-blue or other clean cut colors -
that's art. Just like the audio. It may be kind of 80s with a lot of
syntheziser, but it works perfect. Silence of the Lambs is not art. All
it tries to do is tell a story, without trying to stimulate the
viewer's senses. The story is all right, but you can't help but
thinking it could have been so much better, had Michael Mann directed
it.

******
2 October 2003
6

Silence Of The Lambs is an average movie that has been hyped to classic
status. The superb performance by Anthony Hopkins is the only saving grace
of this film.  Jodie Foster is terrible as usual, she has to be one of the
worst actress of our time.  The biggest problem with the film is the absurd
premise that a FBI student (She is not an agent) would be left alone to
handle an investigation of this magnitude. Sorry but that just isn't going
to happen.  This movie is worth one viewing for Hopkins performance and
that's it.  It shouldn't even rate in the top 500 movies of all time.  5.4
on a scale of 10.

******
5 June 2005
5
I know a couple who had actually saw the premiere of this film in
Hollywood and actually walked out of it when it started and right past
Anthony Hopkins! That alone tells you this is one disturbed film.
Hopkins is perfect as Hannibal Lecter, a unimaginably smart and insane
serial killer who helps Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster won an Oscar)
track down another vicious serial killer named Buffalo Bill. The lines
are some of the best you will ever hear and the acting is breathtaking.
But it is ridiculously vulgar and sadistic. Not for kids under 18 or
for the faint of heart or stomach to be more specific. Followed by
Hannibal and Red Dragon also starring Hopkins.

******
7 April 2006
3
Movie adaptations of novels, even pop bestsellers with the imagery
masticated for us, are a tricky business to cinematically get right.
Some find a good translation by falling backward into it, like "Jaws".
Rare birds like "2001: A Space Odyssey" transcend previous visual
understandings, and overpower the written word. You can include this movie with "Presumed Innocent" or "...Cuckoo's
Nest": in each case, the wrong path was chosen. The novel hinges on Lecter's perspective -- here Hopkins plays a mere
boogey man. All we get is the cheap device of haunted houses. In the novel, Lecter moves physically and psychologically wherever he
wants: in Harris' words, 'as if he chose the distance' from the
protagonist/detective. He occupies his own universe of perception,
based mostly on sight and smell -- Demme might have really done
something by recreating the world sensed by Lecter. Instead, he spends
all of his time lovingly gazing into Foster's face. If you want a better construction of a world, stay with "Manhunter".

******
18 March 2005
10
One of the great thriller/horror films, appearing the most terrifying
and famous film villains ever created, based on the book by Thomas
Harris, and directed by Oscar and BAFTA winning, and Golden Globe
nominated Jonathan Demme (Philadelphia). Basically young FBI trainee
agent Clarice Starling (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Jodie
Foster) is assigned to help find a missing woman, the daughter of the
senator, from a psychotic serial killer who skins his victims, to make
some sort of woman-like suit/costume, Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine). The
only person who can help lead her towards him is getting an insight
into his twisted mind by talking to another psychopath, once respected
psychiatrist, Dr. Hannibal Lecter, aka Hannibal the Cannibal (Oscar and
BAFTA winning, and Golden Globe nominated Sir Anthony Hopkins). FBI
agent Jack Crawford (Scot Glenn) believes that Lecter, just as powerful
and intelligently manipulative, has all the answers to their questions
to help locate Bill, but they still need his real name to get
where-abouts. Clarice, haunted by memories of her father's death and
lambs on her old farm home (the meaning of the title), which Hannibal
picks on and forces her to tell to get the answers she wants, needs to
gain his confidence before he is going to give any information. As
Clarice gets closer to finding Bill, finding a moth cocoon in one
victim's throat, Hannibal managed (somehow, when he was strapped into
his harnesses) to steal a pen, and take off the metal bit on the
outside, and make his escape from the manor house he was transported
to. I don't know what was worse, the fact the he ate on the guards
faces and killed both of them, or the fact that he put a dead guy's
face onto his as disguise for his escape in an ambulance. In the end,
Clarice finds Buffalo Bill, or Jame Gumb's home, and recognises it from
the moth that comes in, and in defence she kills him in the dark room,
and obviously in the end is rewarded with real FBI status. But she
wasn't expecting a phone call from Hannibal, so it is a really good
double ending; half good, half bad, but mostly bad. Also starring
Anthony Heald as Dr. Frederick Chilton, Kasi Lemmons as Ardelia Mapp,
Lawrence T. Wrentz as Agent Burroughs, Frankie Faison as Barney
Matthews, Masha Skorobogatov as Young Clarice, Jeffrie Lane as
Clarice's Father, Diane Baker as Sen. Ruth Martin, Brooke Smith as
Catherine Martin and Charles Napier as Lt. Boyle. Foster and Hopkins
both deserved their Oscars, the violence is pretty hard-hitting in a
few scenes, there is also a moment with spunk going into Clarice's hair
(very sick) and the highlights are all with Hopkins, the obvious being
his first encounter with Foster, his escape, and the final phone call,
a great film. It won the Oscars for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on
Material from Another Medium and Best Picture, and it was nominated for
Best Film Editing and Best Sound, it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best
Cinematography, Best Editing, Best Original Film Score for Howard
Shore, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Sound and Best Film, and it was
nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best
Screenplay. Jodie Foster was number 23, and Sir Anthony Hopkins number
7 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 1 on The 50 Greatest
British Actors, he was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actors, and he was
number 3 on The World's Greatest Actor, Clarice Starling was number 6
(Hero) and Hannibal Lecter was number 1 (Villain) on 100 Years, 100
Heroes & Villains, the film was number 5 on 100 Years, 100 Thrills, it
was number 28 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments, it was number 21 on
100 Years, 100 Quotes ("A census taker once tried to test me. I ate his
liver with some fava beans and a nice Chianti."), it was number 65 on
100 Years, 100 Movies, and it was number 37 on The 100 Greatest Films.
Outstanding!

******
7 June 2007
4
I'll confess, I prefer reading a good book to seeing a movie. There's
something about the way the words come alive in my head that will
always beat out even the best of movies. But when a book I love is
turned into a movie, I have to see it. Call it morbid curiosity if you
like; I always wonder if the story will survive the transfer from book
to movie and if the director will be true to what the book does.
Sometimes, the transition is better than other times. Lord of the Rings
was spectacular. This moviewas not, I'm sad to say.I think the fault does not lie with the actors, at least not entirely.
Anthony Hopkins shone as Hannibal (how could he not?), but his scenes
were handled badly. The scene that stands out for me as the worst in
the movie was, unfortunately, the first meeting between Clarice and
Hannibal. This is most unfortunate because that particular scene is one
of my favorites in the book. I wonder if the director actually read the
book this movie is based on. To the director: with all due respect,
Hannibal is a gentleman. He would not shout for Clarice because
gentlemen do not shout for women as if they were dogs. According to the
book, he called her name repeatedly as she was walking away, and only
her desire for advancement brought her back. Also, this scene was
horribly abbreviated, as were all the other scenes between Clarice and
Hannibal.Part of the blame is on the shoulders of the director, but Jodie Foster
in the role of Clarice must take some of the blame as well. There were
moments when she made Clarice shine, and I saw in her face all the
strength and courage that I loved and admired in the book. The final
showdown, however, ruined it for me. Jodie may have won an Oscar for
this performance, but I suspect that those who decide on those awards
never read the book. Jodie showed good emotion, if the director asked
for fear. Shaking hands, fast breathing, fumbling for bullets, the
whole spiel. But that's not the character of Clarice. In the first
place, Clarice was at the top of her shooting class; she'd practiced
taking her gun out of its holster four thousand times (according to the
book). She was smooth in her draw, not fumbling. In the second place,
Clarice doesn't show fear. She's fully aware in the cellar that Buffalo
Bill could be around every corner, and being a female and showing him
fear is giving him the advantage. She knows that. According to all I've
read in the book, she knows how to control her fear.Now, I'll admit, I'm biased about this movie because I love the book.
And there were moments when there was a definite shine in the movie:
Crawford was brilliantly good, and while Jame Gumb was a little too
retarded, he did well. But what made the book brilliant was sadly
lacking. I'd never buy this movie.

******
7 November 1998
5

A tremendously overrated movie in most respects (although Tak Fujimoto's
cinemtography is crisp with a lovely use of color).  Johnathan Demme has
made better movies (Something Wild leaps to mind) and this one is rather
slick and impersonal compared to others he has directed.Jodie Foster's performance does little for me; she seems too tense and
earnest all through the movie - no changes.  I do not understand why they
made the Dr. Chilton character such a broad, asinine media-hound; a
psychologist of that high a level would be that stupid?  If he were smarter,
it would make the characters who out-think him smarter.
And finally, I think they should take that Oscar away from Mr. Hopkins for
his sweaty-browed, serpent-voiced performance and give it to Brian Cox for
his work in Manhunter: the first, and to me better, Hannibal
Lecter.

******
2 January 2007
3
I really didn't find this film "thrilling" at all...in fact it bored me
so much I ended up nodding off...This has always been one of these films that always gets good reviews
and is always high up in "The top 100 scary moments"...but up until a
few weeks ago, I had never watched this film properly all the way
through...and now I know why.I decided to give this film a chance seeing as so many people have such
good things to say about it...but quite frankly, I want my 2 hours
back. I mean, I won't deny the fact that the acting is
brilliant...because it is...the cast is close to perfect...but it's
such a shame that the dull, anti-climax story lets them down.Nothing happens. I can't understand how people are disturbed from this
film...it's predictable and it is a complete let down.I do have maybe one good thing to say about the film itself...and that
is that the night vision scene towards the end is abit un-nerving...but
thats it. Other than that, I feel like i've been completely mis-lead.Go ahead and watch it though, as my review is probably in the minority.
I'll let you decide for yourself.

******
20 May 2000
1

That the film has its moments cannot be denied. Hopkins is slightly
over-the-top as the diabolical yet urbane Lecter, but it's an enjoyable
performance all the same. Lecter's finest moment is when, bound,
straightjacketed, and face-masked, he is brought before Senator Martin
and,
after relentlessly goading her about the fate of her daughter, blurts out
the identity of Buffalo Bill and adds, "Love your suit."Beyond the superficial appeal of a character who can interject such
misanthropic witticisms, Lecter embodies the repulsive seduction of this
thoroughly erudite monster, utterly free of societal constraints in spirit
if not in body. His intelligence is, if remorseless and amoral, open and
searching and methodical. We are time and again shown his superiority to
the
FBI, who rush hither and yon after clues they don't begin to understand,
and
to the pettiness of his jailor, Dr. Chilton, who subjects Lecter to
televangelist broadcasts as punishment for brutal misbehavior.Yet Lecter is poorly contrasted throughout the film, and his intelligence
is
falsely elevated by comparison to the unimaginative mediocrities he is up
against. Starling is a dreary feminist with a white trash inferiority
complex, Dr. Chilton is a preposterously snide asshole, and none of the
other characters rise above their status as plot devices. There is
something
particularly prim and humorless and unlikeable about Starling, and it is
impossible to determine why Lecter would take an interest in her childhood
trauma about lambs.Several points regarding Lecter's escape make no sense at all, and at
crucial stages the total incompetence of his captors is required to pull
it
off. That Hopkins manages to keep the suspense going is a testament to the
actor's ability to rise above the script. Regarding the ultimate capture
of
Buffalo Bill, it is too much to swallow that Starling's success hinges
upon
uncovering photographs in the victim's abandoned bedroom years after it
had
been scoured for evidence by FBI agents. This twist hangs one ridiculous
premise on another and is a sorry attempt to justify Starling's centrality
to the story.The cinematography and direction do contribute something interesting to
the
tumultuous descent to Lecter's asylum cell, but are otherwise
unremarkable.
Buffalo Bill is more bizarre than chilling, and the final confrontation
between him and Starling is contrived. The film ends on a note that
suggests
it could have been alot better.Warning: If you purchase the DVD of THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, resist the
urge to listen to Jodie Foster's commentary. While the lambs may be
silent,
it is next to impossible to get her to shut up. Her grating, man-hating
(and
totally outdated) style of feminist rhetoric comes close to self-parody,
although not often enough to be truly entertaining. Conclusion: this
über-bitch is a gaseous windbag. But if you don't believe me, listen for
yourself. You'll be saying "Pass the Chianti" before you make it through
the
first reel.


******
9 April 2005
8
The Silence of the Lambs begins with FBI agent in training Clarice
Starling (Jodie Foster) being summoned to Jack Crawford's (Scott Glenn)
office who happens to be the FBI's director of behavioural science.
Clarice is told by Crawford that he wants her to travel to the
Baltimore state hospital & interview the notorious serial killer Dr.
Hannibal 'the cannibal' Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) to possibly help
identify a current serial killer nick-named 'Buffalo Bill' (Ted Levine)
who has kidnapped, murdered & skinned several young girls. Clarice
meets up with the slimy Dr. Frederick Chilton (Anthony Heald) who runs
the hospital & has responsibility for Lecter, he tells her some basic
rules & then she's ready. Clarice's meeting with Lecter goes O.K. & he
gives her a few cryptic clues which leads her to a severed head in a
jar, 'Buffalo Bills' first victim. Meanwhile 'Buffalo Bill' himself has
abducted a young girl named Catherine Martin (Brooke Smith) who is the
daughter of a powerful Washington Senator Ruth Martin (Diane Baker).
Lecter sees an opportunity to leave his miserable existence in his
cramped brick cell behind & tries to strike a deal with the Senator in
exchange for 'Buffalo Bills' name. As politics & greed begin to surface
Lecter sets his plans in motion while Clarice who is now on the
investigating team is determined to track 'Buffalo Bill' down, save
Catherine before he kills her & put a stop to his grisly crimes for
good.Directed by Jonathan Demme (who also has a small cameo at the end
apparently) I thought Silence of the Lambs was a solid horror film, &
by the way if you listen to the documentary on the DVD everyone
involved in the production refers to it as a horror film & nothing
else! The script by Ted Tally based on the novel by Thomas Harris is a
little slow & deliberate on occasion but for the most part it's very
interesting & gripping. There isn't much in the way of on-screen blood
or gore, in fact very little, but it's still quite a powerful film with
Anthony Hopkins performance as Hannibal Lecter the obvious standout,
although having said that he has very little on-screen time with about
15 or so minutes in total which is the shortest amount of time ever to
win a best actor Oscar. I liked how Silence of the Lambs ended & in
particular how things turned out for Lecter. Everyone else is good as
well but I personally didn't really like Jodie Foster that much as she
just got on my nerves after a while & I couldn't see her as a tough
chick kind of character! Horror film directors (another indication that
Silence of the Lambs was indeed intended to be a horror film before it
became a big success & we all know horror films can't be successful so
now it's called a thriller) Roger Corman & George A. Romero both have
cameos. Technically Silence of the Lambs is competent but not
outstanding, the music is O.K., the photography a little flat & the
production design bland but with such a strong story I guess these
things don't matter so much. There are some truly great moments
throughout, too. Overall I liked it for sure but I did find it a little
slow going during certain places & Jodie Foster just didn't do it for
me as Agent Starling for some reason I can't quite explain, Silence of
the Lambs is a great horror film but I couldn't see myself sitting
through it again anytime soon & it's maybe not quite as good as all
those Oscars would suggest you to believe. Definitely worth watching &
deserving of my 8 out of 10 star rating but I do have certain
reservations about it & believe it to be a little overrated.

******
19 August 2003
5

This is one of the most overrated films ever made and by far the 
weakest of all the Lecter films. I didn't find it at all terrifying and
apart from the good performance by Anthony Hopkins the film had
nothing else to offer. Jodie Foster is very annoying as usual and
offers nothing to her role and the gothic look kills the film. Very
disappointing. 

******
13 September 2001
3

Well, I had only seen this film once, back in high school, and was quite
drunk the first time, so I didn't remember it very well.....so, I thought
I'd check it out with its new "special edition" release and see what all
the
hoopla is about.  I mean, it was named Best Picture, it has two excellent
lead actors (Foster and Hopkins), and it's gotten nothing but praise and
good ratings on the IMDb site, so why not take a look?Here's why:  it was very poorly shot.  The script was a pretty good idea,
but very, very predictable and formulaic.  Foster's performance was
overstated, and, while the Hopkins role was very well-done, every single
other character in the film was VERY poorly played.  The dialogue was
ridiculous.Half of the movie was shot without any actual "acting" going on; people
were
just talking to the camera in close-up, and their editing was supposed to
make us feel like these people were actually having an exchange of some
kind
(does anyone think that Foster and Hopkins were ever on the set together,
simultaneously, at any point?).The actual villain of the film, "Buffalo Bill," is given no background at
all except for a few very unrealistic newspaper clippings, from which we
are
expected to gather something.  This is the equivalent of countless crappy
Lifetime movies establishing past relationships between people by panning
past photographs of people standing together, while piano plays in the
background.  This guy isn't frightening, menacing, or even suspenseful in
the slightest.The largest amount of actual entertainment in the film consists of how all
the cops act.  If the rest of the movie weren't so poorly made, I'd like to
think that the director was making them so comical and silly on purpose;
maybe trying to make a point of some kind.  But, judging from the rest of
the film, Demme probably thought he was portraying these people
accurately."Silence of the Lambs" isn't one of the worst movies ever made, but it is
certainly much farther from being one of the best.  All the little details
thrown in, the ones that actually let us see just what the director is
actually doing with the film, are stupid (like the cat waiting in the
window
when the girl gets kidnapped----it growls as the van drives
off.......ridiculous).  What little action there is in the film is purely
by-the-book, industry-standard, average garbage (save for the scene where
Hopkins grabs the guard and sucks his face---that was far below
average).If you've never seen this movie, but you've seen some other
detective/killer/suspense film sometime in the past 20 years, don't bother.
It's certainly not up to the level it's touted at.  If you saw the movie
once, while in junior high or high school, and you think maybe your film
tastes have matured since then, watch it again.  I think you'll see what I
mean.I just can't imagine what the people (those that consider themselves to be
knowledgeable film critics) were thinking in 1991.  Best Picture.  Doesn't
speak well for the other movies released that year.  I
wonder.........

******
3 January 2010
2
I don't really know how anyone could like this movie. I first saw it
when i was 11 and it freaked me out. Then my friend said that i should
go see it at his house. I figured "hey, why not,i was just a little kid
when i saw it, it can't be too bad". Well, i was Definitely wrong. I'll
put in a quick summary: ooh, a cannibal took a guys brain out,cooked it
and ate it,yeah. Oooh more cannibalism,how terrific. Thats really all
there is to it. I completely lost my faith in the Oscars when it won
best picture. However, i do have something positive to say: the acting
was pretty good and stopped me from giving it one star.2/10

******
30 May 1999
2

Academy Awards are rarely the sign of a great movie. The children of the
Academy members, who do the actual voting, have notoriously pedestrian
tastes. This movie does add some dramatic scenes and character development
to improve on a poorly written novel. This movie's big draws, it would
appear, were cannibalism, masogeny, and over-acting. Really great acting
is
transparent. If you're marvelling at the fantastic acting during the
movie,
then what you're enjoying is watching someone "ham it up" on the screen,
not
fine acting.
The important thing is that the villain didn't have sex with the women, he
just murdered them and skinned them, thus avoiding an x rating. And the
females that we were aware of that did have sex were properly tortured for
their sins. What I really find offensive is that Hannibal the Cannibal is
portrayed as a likable monster, even after cutting off the face of an
innocent guard in order facilitate his escape. Hannibal's a winner and
American's love a winner, regardless of the atrocities he commits in order
to achieve his goals. This movie sends the message that if we are clever
and
have no moral limits as to what we are willing to do, we'll succeed -which
Hannibal does! This movie is truly a bottom feeder in the cesspool of
American cinema.

******
19 December 1999
2

I saw this movie when new, and liked it plenty.  That was years ago, and
I've grown considerably.  My interest in Thomas Harris' "Red Dragon", and
the screenplay I'm working on based on it, prodded me into renting SOTL for
repeat viewing.
I've always held the Oscars in low regard, but have dropped that regard all
together after viewing this nonsense.  The 1,000 word maximum on these
posts
prevents me from mentioning all the folly I found in the film.  But I'll
try....Acting:  In most instances, overwrought.  Hopkins was a good psycho, but a
bad Lecter.  The Lecter of the novels was far
more sedate in his demeanor, prefering to "charm" his opposition, allowing
himself access to their psyche.  Sniffing the air for skin cream is highly
dubious.  Foster did a good job as a young recruit.  The problem I have
with
her is has more to do with the story.  Seems a bit too unrealistic.  Will
Graham convinced me.  Clarice Starling didn't.  Dr. Chilton was played as a
complete idiot.  Typical Hollywood bad good-guy.  Made the viewer biased
for
Lecter.  WRITER SHORTCUT!  I recognize this as a substitute for compelling
writing and acting.  Simply bias the audience toward the main character by
surrounding him with easy-to-dis-like characters.  No childish brat like
the
Chilton portrayed would ever hold a job of such responsibility.   Ted
Levine
was terrific throughout.  Voice, appearance, contortions, crotch, :  all
wonderful.  Most of the supporting players were of TV movie quality.
Canned
dialog, playing dumb for an assumed dumb audience.  Posh on that, Director.
As for direction, too many flubs and gimmicks to mention here.  I'll
mention
one:  The cat in the window growling as Buffalo Bill drives away with Fat
Girl # Whatever.
Like any cat is going to react in that fashion.  A cat would not bat a
whisker if in the presence of such drama.  Would only move if the master
was
going to land on it.  Otherwise, no fur ruffled.  What a gimmick that
was.The music was typical of Hollywood reality.  Never in my life, when
confronted with drama of any intensity, have I heard violins out of
nowhere.
DIRECTOR SHORTCUT!:  Adding sappy "music" to enhance mood.  In most cases,
this is to bolster or cover any weaknesses in writing, acting, direction,
or
all three.  (NOTE: This is certainly not exclusive to this film.  Most
Hollywood productions employ this tactic.) The ending of the film was
almost
good about this.  No music, just Foster in the dark.  ***NO SPOILER***  But
the ending could've been better.  Easily.MANHUNTER should have won 15 Oscars, if SOTL could win
5.
Sure, it was a bit too 80's in appearance, but far more accurate and
convincing.  Better book, too.In summation, too dumbed down.  Booooooo.

******
26 August 2001
4

The Silence of the Lambs is probably the second or third most overrated film
of the 90s.  It is not to scary and when the film does not feature Anthony
Hopkins Haaming it up, it is totally banal.  Jodie Foster and the rest of
the cast are completely stiff.  We get very little explanation for Buffalo
Bill's motivation to kill women, nor does the film ever explain how Lecter
got that pen piece he used to pick his hand cuffs.  On a final note, and
I'll probably be crucified for this, HANNIBAL was much better than this
film.

******
17 October 1998
4

Such a boring movie.  Not much seemed to happen until the end, which was OK.
The reason behind why the guy was killing the ladies was the stupidest
thing I have ever heard.  Hannibal Lecter's character and his escape scene
were really the only things I liked in the whole film.  It pretty much
sucked.

******
6 January 2006
3
this movie is just implausible... i know movies do not need to always
reflect reality to be entertaining or good, but this movie rode the
"realistic" trump card at the time of its release... i'm sorry if i
don't believe the FBI would field an investigation in remotely the same
fashion as the one in this movie... hopkins hams up his performance as
lecter, and i cannot buy into him for one second...i admit i have a faint bias against jodie foster but i still think this
movie is irreparably damaged by the unlikeliness of the story... it's
further hamstrung when you consider the BRILLIANT portrayal of lecter
(who is not a very realistic character but wow! does cox do a good job
bringing him to life) by brian cox in the older and superior
manhunter... i think it's a mistake to give lecter the amount of
emphasis he gets here, as he should not be the focus of this story...if there is any redemption, it's the fine, almost secondary performance
of ted levine... he acts in a manner i might expect from a serial
killer, and is at least somewhat interesting... too bad he plays second
fiddle to a pointless, distracting and inexplicable main story...when compared this to similar serial killer thriller movies (ie. movies
that ground themselves in fiction and twists) this film comes off
rather badly to offerings like the bone collector, which is just a good
old fashioned yarn... SOTL is at best boring, at worst silly...

******
24 April 2009
2
Ever since I was a little kid, I was obsessed with reading pulp horror.
I've read more from the genre than anyone I personally know. Being a
soon-to-be-published author myself, I've learned more about the genre
by constantly reading than by any writing seminar I've ever been to.
For those who don't read, by simple definition, pulp horror is: a story
that is genuinely terrifying and thrilling, but purposely lacks any
forced literary moral. Stephen King is pretty much the poster-child of
this style of writing. With all of that said, when The Silence of the
Lambs, the novel, was released and received mass critical acclaim for
being the "perfect" horror-thriller, even being the major genre-whore
that I am, I could really care less. Why? Simple because I'd read so
many books EXACTLY like it, I had no interest. A few years later, when
the movie was released, I felt the exact same way. This is why I've
waited so long to view this "impossible-to-miss!" film. Because I knew
it was just more of the same. When I finally decided to force myself to
watch it, I found my gut instinct was underestimating. The Silence of
the Lambs is not only just more of the same unoriginal story that we've
all heard so many times that it's second nature to us, it's also
cheesy, immature, over-glamorized, and, in the end, completely
laughable. And here is why . . .First and foremost: The Silence of the Lambs is, unarguably, 100%
unoriginal. There is not a single originalor even creativeconcept in
the entire runtime of the film. This paragraph of my review is not my
opinion. The way I view the world has no bearing on what has or hasn't
been done in storytelling before. Saying that it's my opinion that The
Silence of the Lambs is unoriginal is equivalent to saying that it's my
opinion that the sky is blue. And just as childish. With that said, I
can literally point you, scene-by-scene, to where every single idea in
The Silence of the Lambs has been written and filmed in the past.
Dressed to Kill, for a major example. From the formula, to the
characters, to the situations, to the set-up: it's all, unarguably, one
giant genre cliché. And, as I said, I can point to every movie, every
book that has used the EXACT scenes in the past. This isn't just a
coincidence; it's an unabashed lack of creativity and intelligence from
the writer. Just more of the same cliché Hollywood and pulp fiction
conventions we've seen all our lives. All the standard clichés are
here, folks: romantic subplot, tension at the agency, troubled
childhoods, etc., etc., etc.Hannibal Lector himself is, admittedly by the author, nothing but a
mash-up of various fictional and real-life serial killers. The two most
obvious fictional killers he unabashedly rips-off are Leatherface (The
Texas Chain Saw Massacre, 1974) and Mark Lewis (Peeping Tom, 1960).
Leatherface's actions (cannibal, wears victim's faces) + Lewis's mind
(pretentious, psychiatrist, study's human behavior, kills people to
study reactions, gives long speeches about serial killers, has a
supposed vast knowledge of the human mind) = Hannibal Lector. There is
not a single character trait that Lector has that wasn't done nearly 40
years before he was written. Again, a kindergarten lack of creativity.
I honestly don't even know how his character got past copyright laws.Not to mention Hannibal's cheesy persona. He pronounces "liver" with
slurping sounds at the end. So did 3-year-olds, but I don't cower in
fear of them. He never actually DOES anything on-screen, except talk.
And talk. And when he does talk, he talks with the pseudo-intelligence
of a high-school dropout who took a semester of psychology. Why?
Because his psychological knowledge is laughably limited, and sometimes
incorrect all together. He's supposed to be this oh-so-evil genius, but
all he ever does is quote cliché phrases from dumbed-down Freud. He
knows NOTHING about psychology. The pathetic writers just wrote enough
cliché psychobabble between his laugh-out-loud cheesy slurping sounds
to make it seem like he knew at least as much about the human mind as
the average middle-school student. And then, just like all
over-glamorized Hollywood, every time Hannibal is on the screen they
point the camera up at his face with light shining behind his head as
he stares at the ceiling without blinking. That's not good acting.
That's made-for-TV directing they use in low-budget Jesus movies.
Hannibal Lector is nothing but an awkward middle-aged man who is
obsessed with talking and breaking copyright laws. How is that
unnerving? If I met him, I'd laugh in his face and tell him to grow up.So, at root value, I'm just trying to ask: What is so great about this
movie? It's a generic crime thriller. It opens up with a generic
cop-meets-killer scene, and ends with a generic
cheesy-killer-in-the-house scene. Everything in between is exactly what
you'd expect from an over-glamorized generic Hollywood thriller. It has
NO significance whatsoever when it comes to originality. And as far as
entertainment value goes, I don't see what's so entertaining in
watching a middle-age man talk for an hour on end. If that entertains
you, I pity you.Oh my God! This movie TERRIFIED me! Why? Because an awkward middle-aged
man pronounced "liver" like a 3-year-old.I'll say the same thing to those of you who gave this movie a high
score as I'd say to Hannibal Lector: GROW UP.2/10

******
20 December 2007
2
This is another movie that glorifies psychopathic behaviour. The bad
guy is portrayed as an intelligent, witty, stylish, calculated guy
while the investigators are shown as weak-minded, emotional, imprudent
persons. One almost feels sorry(or maybe angry) for the FBI guys for
being so incompetent. How can the screenplay for such a movie get 5
Oscars? The acting is not that great either, Anthony Hopkins is
overplaying his lines while Jodie Foster is barely acting at all. She
doesn't seem to change mimic during the whole movie and the whole story
with the lambs is just lame. Some psychopaths are known to be good to
animals, so saving some lambs doesn't automatically make you a noble
and unique person, someone that can make the world a better place.

******
31 August 2015
1
Why on earth has this film got five Oscars? It honestly didn't deserve
it with a lack of enthusiasm and action! Josie Foster and Anthony Hopkins were alright but I don't see much
happening between them to be honest. All they ever do is talk talk talk
during the film which honestly bores me out!I really wouldn't call this a scary film but I would say this, I yawned
for about 27 minutes of it and tapped the 'X' sign on my tablet to stop
watching it, I was completely fed up to be honest!I wouldn't recommend anyone watching this since I found it quite
unenjoyable and not amusing!

******
8 July 2001
2

I gave this film a 1. It's not quite that bad, but I felt it necessary when
I saw the ludicrous fact that it was ranked #20 for all time. That is as
astonishing and appalling as the films five wholly undeserved major Academy
Awards. To be shocking and unsettling for the purpose of art can be
admirable. To be shocking and unsettling for the purpose of creating a lurid
freak show is another. This movie never even makes the most cursory attempt
to look at what motivates the serial killers it portrays. It just wants to
be creepy. Creepy it is, and full of suspense, too. But since when does that
earn you a Best Picture Oscar? "Jurassic Park" was creepy and full of
suspense, in far skillful and artistic ways, yet the suggestion that it was
award worthy would have brought guffaws.The performances of Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins are good, but
definitely not Oscar worthy. In fact, for Hopkins supporting role to be
included as Best Actor is abysmally ridiculous. And for all the hype that
has surrounded the character of Hannibal Lecter, he is nothing but a
by-the-numbers Hollywood pshycopath. In short, parts of this film are well done (others are not), and unlike most
contemporary horror films it's genuinely frightening. But never for one
millisecond does it begin to approach a level of depth beyond B-Grade
exploitation. Well done schlock is still schlock, and when the Academy gave
this film Best Picture, they damaged the dignity of an entire art form.


******
22 March 2001
3

Spoiler       I can watch a movie and let the unbelievable bend, but this movie
went way to far.  At least Hannable is mean in this film unlike the new 
movie entitled Hannable.  When Hannable can surgically chew some guards face
off and put it on his perfectly and no one notices, thats just to lame for
me.  How can this guy figure out what other criminals can do and whole room
of FBI profilers can't.  Would you trust him even.  Jodi Foster and the guy
have these weird deep conversations all the time.  Boring I can her the same
weirdness on the bus on my way to work.  Like all copies of a copy this
movie is awfuller then the original and then next version is even more
stupid, and if they make a fourth, Hannable will probably be on the space
shuttle. I give this a 3.

******
14 March 2005
2
I was really hoping to find this movie good but when i saw it, it was
SO not good. I wasn't expecting lots of action but this movie was too
slow, too many boring parts and i was hoping for more interesting
scenes than a girl spending more than half the movie investigating
without anything good to happen. The only good parts were when Hannibal
Lecter escape and the battle against Bill at the end, but the battle at
the end wasn't that good either. I don't know what the hell these
people see into this movie. I've been hearing nothing but awesome
comments about this, EVERYBODY i read in the internet said it was the
best. Maybe (from everybody i heard) was paid to say great things so
this movie can get cheap wins at the Oskars. I feel bad saying this to
everybody (even though i like Jodie Foster) but this movie was more
like the great Granddaughter than the Grandfather of thrillers. 2 out
of 10.

******
27 February 2004
3

Why this movie is listed in the top 50 escapes me.  It's probably one of
the
most disgusting pieces of art I've ever seen.  I did give it a 3, however,
because it at least had some good acting.  But I'm rating the movie as a
whole - the best acting in the world couldn't make this trash worth
watching.This film is filled with violence and filth.  Jodie Foster went from the
cute Freaky Friday to an adult in no time.Anthony Hopkins does a great job as a psycho, and he fits the part
perfectly.I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone except those who are interested
in
learning more about murderers.

******
13 April 2008
1
I was not impressed with this film, and it's phoney psychiatry. I have
some professional experience in working with the criminally insane, in
the US and UK. While there are a few staff in the profession who would
allow themselves to be manipulated in the way that Clarice Starling
does, I cannot conceive any real life situation where so many of her
colleagues would allow this situation, known as "team splitting", to
continue. It is routine behaviour for psychopaths to attempt to team
split, as Lekter does, but it is such a standard ploy that it would be
recognised in any institution other than the toyland one in the film
and quickly dealt with, and I resent the attitude of the storyline in
glorifying this behaviour. Trust me people, if you are in this
situation, don't allow patients to split you away from your colleagues,
you may think they are interested in you but they will get bored with
playing with you in the end. When patients are given this power, which
they cannot handle, it makes them more scared, and less likely to
learn. In his attempt to make Frederick Chilton, the character that
should be the good guy, in to the bad guy, either the actor or the
director has gone way over the top, to the point where where pathos
becomes bathos, and as for Anthony Hopkins, he lost all credibility for
me when he announced in a British tabloid that he was sorry for seeming
to condone violence in the role he was playing, and then within a few
months proceeded to repeat the role in the sequel, "Hannibal". That's
why I never bothered to see the film until just recently.

******
25 March 1999
1

Having read both the Prequel (Manhunter) and Silence of the Lambs, I was
looking forward to seeing how the transition to the screen
went.A while back "Manhunter" was released, and although abridged and with a
different (but better) ending, I loved it. 
Particularly Brian Cox as Hannibal Lecter, soft spoken, analytical and very,
very calm. However, always an undercurrent of danger and a mere whisper of
insanity.Now on to "Silence of the Lambs" - Hannibal Lecter has gone from being an
all too believable real-life monster to a giggling Hollywood psycho - a
veritable troll complete with his own dungeon (alas, no smoking torches) and
a set of eyes wide enough to make Marty Feldman blink.Serial murderers such as this, particularly highly intelligent ones, do not
prance about revelling in how evil they are, nor do they speak in such
ridiculous snidley tones.They appear quite normal - the reason why they managed to get away with what
they did for the length of time they did. Occasionally they speak in
monotones and look at nothing in particular. 
Check out interviews of real-life serial killers - you won't find Anthony
Hopkins's fairground pastiche there.The story itself rambled, the interplay between the two characters did'nt
work - Hopkins possibly due to the material, Foster due to the lack of a
believable protagonist.
They have thankfully both done far better work than this both before and
since. There were some (very few) well designed moments and images but the end was
both predictable and dissapointing.Films are supposed to mirror real life, not the expected perceptions of the
mainstream. Otherwise, what happens to creativity?Oh dear - we're back in Hollywood again.Dan

******
19 April 2002
1

After hearing how great this film is i had to see it for myself. It isn't
"all that". The story-line is boring and stringy, very much NON-VIOLENT and
really really drawn out stalking scenes.I will give credit to the FLAWLESS acting though, Jodie foster and Anthony
Hopkins were Outstanding. I really feel that more could have been done with
this movie than what they did.The main reason people like this film is because its a "psychological"
thriller, implying that if you dont like this film you are considered
dumb.(which is not the case).This is a very overrated film...very overrated but its worth seeing..so you
can say "I have seen silence of the lambs." If that doesnt thrill
you...dont
see it.

******
7 June 2002
1

coming after the great and truly brilliant manhunter, this has to be one of
the most over rated films ever.  oscar to hopkins for the hammiest
performance in a film, foster giving another underwhelming turn.  how the
critics and public got conned on this one i do not know,  predictable and
truly mediocre, there should be a new category added to rate films those
that for some obscure reason make and impression, as in the emperor's new
clothes syndrome, where people are afraid to go against the grain, other
examples, harry potter, usual suspects, almost all of spielbergs films,
certainly private ryan comes into this.  has anyone taken a good look at
silence recently and seen how really bad it is.

******
10 January 2007
1
A critic I greatly admired wrote that it is (paraphrasing) "easy to
write a story which catches you in the beginning. It is very difficult
to write a story which satisfactorily completes its promise.". In Silence of the Lambs we watch the development of Jodie Foster as a
clearly intelligent, determined investigator. She gets involved with
the character of Anthony Hopkins who can only be described as a
Monster. Sex and sadism are his middle names. The audience is drawn
into the horrible web that he has sewn. And then what happens? Jodie
Foster is in an endless chase scene, alone with a man with whom NO MAN
would ever find himself. Her professionalism is completely lost.This ending is so disappointing as to make the entire picture a waste.

******
21 June 2001
1

the film expressed a certain emphasis on the criminal matters now existing
in our world. i have read the novel and i though it followed the plot
seemingly well. i think anthony hopkins' performance was very sophisticated
and i have not yet seen the sequel and i hope his performance was just as
good in that.

******
7 December 2000
1

I still don't understand why so many people think this movie is 
good.  It wasn't scary to me.  I didn't feel any suspense. 
And
some of it was gross.  What was good about it?  In my opinion,
the only good part was when it ended.

******
27 November 2002
1

I saw this movie having minimal expectations. The first was to be scared.
Never at one point did I feel frightened. The acting was nothing special
with the exception of Hannibal. The storyline was easily predictable while
the scene of the guards facing being nawed on was so unbelievably cheezy I
had to restrain from turning off the movie, and I only did not to see if
my
prediction would come true. How this movie one any Oscars is beyond me.
Why
people regard this movie as great is an ever greater mystery. It was not
scary, the plot was lame, it was easily predictable, and it just sucked.
The
end scene was by and far the worst scene I'll ever see in a movie. He's
going after her with night vision goggles!!! Come on, how dopey is that?
Then of course he didn't cock his gun before so he makes a noise and gets
a
cap busted in him. I wish I'd never seen this movie because I had few
expectations and none of them were reached. And Jodie foster as the
"attractive" female FBI agent, a worse actress could not have been picked.
I
don't want a girl with a voice deeper than mine and a body like my
grandmother's solving crimes. The movie sucked and is 3rd only to Driven
starring Sylvester Stallone and Escape from LA starring who
cares.

******
15 February 1999
1

Why this actrees, so lovely, and so good, insists on making such dogs, I'll
never know. This is a sick film. What is it about? I don't know. It's just a
revolting film. Is it missing a piece?
Her movies, both as an actrees and a director, seem to be missing essential
pieces. I always feel like there is much interesting ado, but then in the
end about nothing.

******
1 October 1999
1

Other than Anthony Hopkin's performance, this movie has no value whatsoever
and, in my opinion, is the worse movie to sweep the Oscars.  It is
completely unpleasant and Jodie's on-again, off-again, accent gets
bothersome after awhile.  I would rather never see another movie than have
to sit through this again.

******
27 June 2001
1

Totally sickening, no redeeming value to the human condition. Why not study
the uplifting people in the world instead of getting a view through the
eyes
of the most degenerate, disgusting and completely perverted few. The more
glimpses they show into the lives of the debase people of the world the
more
debase our world becomes.

******
2 January 2004
1

I really hate Silence of the Lambs.  Because I hate this movie so much I
have come here to vent my frustrations.  This is the most overrated movie
ever made and I am sorry that I wasted 2 hours of my life watching it.  I
have not and will not see the sequels because the original is so terrible.
The only award this movie should have been nominated for is "Stupidest
Movie
of the Year."    

******
30 May 2007
1
The book is completely boring. The movie is more interesting. Jodie
Foster is the worst actress I ever seen. Obviously she never had any
lessons. She can't act and more worse she doesn't open her mouth while
she speaks - a disaster without compare. People like Jodie Foster would
fail ANY real test for actors. But in Hollywood even the worst actors
can earn millions of dollars with technically extreme bad acting. A
real joke to pair the technically worst speaking actress with one of
the technically best speaking actors (Anthony Hopkins) in a movie where
the book is even more boring than the movie. The plot is just like the
book illogical IN ANY SENSE.

******
8 August 2007
1
This film is so boring it's like watching your grandmother sleep. I
thought it would be good and scary but it was boring. I remember that
everyone in the whole world thought that the killer was the best ever
but he was rubbish and not scary. He even gets caught before the film
starts! LOL. How rubbish is that? I think it would have been better if
he hadn't been in that prison for all that time and had got out and
been killing people at the start. And also if they ditched the other
killer because he distracts attention and looks weird..The film is all about two serial killers being chased by a woman FBI
woman and how she brings them to justice, but that idea falls apart
under its own brevity because one of the killers is caught! That takes
away 50% of the tension. The director did a very bad job and almost all
of the camera movements are lame.At times during it felt like rubbing mustard on my eyelids. and
possibly more bad than that!

